

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2417$14 - 2024 foieïn¾ ui 31 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2024.12.31
No. 2417/14  -  tuesday,   deCeMBeR  31 , 2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6973 - 06 (12/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.d.- B 3/2013 (ii)
MERChANT  ShIPPING  ACT, No. 52 Of 1971
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Ports, shipping and aviation under section 321 of the Merchant shipping act, 
No. 52 of 1971 read with sections 44 and 139 of the said act. 
       
  Bimal Niroshan Rathnayake,
Minister of transport, Highways, Ports and Civil aviation.
Colombo,
30th december, 2024.
Regulations
 1. these regulations may be cited as the Merchant shipping (Non-Convention Vessel) Regulations, No. 1 of  2024.
PART 1
Applicability of these regulations
 2. (1) subject to the provisions of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of this regulation, these regulations shall apply to 
Non-Convention Vessels which are entitled to fly the Sri Lanka flag and to foreign Non-Convention Vessels when in Sri 
Lanka waters.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
2a
 (2) these regulations shall not apply to :-
  (a) ships of war and troopships; and
  (b) fishing vessels.
 (3) the Parts II, IV , V , VI and VII of these regulations shall not apply to vessels categorised in Group 4 – Vessels 
in private use for sport or pleasure (not for hire) referred to in Merchant Shipping (Vessel Classification and Certification) 
Regulations, No.3  of 2024 published in the Gazette extraordinary No.2417/16 of december 31, 2024.
 (4) Group 4 vessels referred to in sub-regulation (3) imported or built after the entry into force of these regulations 
for use in sri Lanka shall conform to the t echnical Codes given in Part III of these regulations.
 3. the director-General of Merchant shipping (in these regulations referred to as the “director General”) shall be 
responsible for the administration of these regulations.
PART II
Registration
 4. (1) every vessel to which these regulations apply shall not be operated without having on board the following 
valid certificates:-
  (a) certificate of registration; 
(b) certificates as required by the Merchant Shipping (Vessel Classification and Certification) Regulations, 
No. 3 of 2024, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 2417/16 of  december 31, 2024; 
  (c) P and I Insurance Certificate; and
  (d) crew licences and training certificates.
     (2) Any person who contravenes sub-regulation (1) commits an offence under these regulations and shall be liable 
on conviction to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand.
 5. (1) every application for registration of a Non-Convention Vessel shall be forwarded to the Registrar of ships 
along with the appropriate fee referred to in schedule III to these regulations as prescribed by the director-General.
     (2) the application shall be made in the form as set out in schedule I to these regulations.
     (3) the application shall be supported with the following documents:-
(a) a Record of Compliance against the appropriate t echnical Code issued by an approved recognised 
organisation or a certifying body. Vessels built in accordance with an equivalent to the rules of the 
Standard Classification Society rule as specified in the Technical Codes shall be acceptable under these 
regulations, subject to complying with all other requirements of the Codes;
(b) Certificate of Survey and Tonnage Measurement;
(c) Tonnage Certificate, if the vessel is over 24 meters;
(d) t itle documents (Bill of sale);
(e) Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, if registering on behalf of a company;
(f) Deletion Certificate, if previously registered on another register;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
3a
(g) Confirmation of Radio Call Sign (as applicable); and
(h) a comprehensive and a valid P&I insurance cover for the vessel obtained from an insurance company 
acceptable to the Insurance Board of sri Lanka, established under the Regulation of Insurance Industry 
act, No. 43 of 2000 covering its crew members, passengers and cargo.
 (4) an application and supporting documents shall be reviewed by the Registrar of ships and if found to be in 
conformity, a Provisional Certificate of Registration shall be issued for a period of six months pending completion of the 
survey.
 (5) upon completion of vetting of the record of compliance by the director-General and issue of the appropriate 
Technical Code Certificate, a Full Certificate of Registration shall be issued as referred to in Schedule II to these regulations.
 (6) The Certificate of Registration shall be valid for the life of the vessel, and shall only be re-issued upon change 
of ownership or substantial alterations to the vessel.
 6. (1) every vessel to which these regulations apply shall not exceed the maximum number of persons permitted to 
be on board as stated in the vessels certification while the vessel is in operation. In the case of Non-Passenger Vessels, the 
vessel may carry crew and special personnel or a combination of passengers and crew and special personnel up to the vessels 
maximum number of permitted persons:
 Provided, that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply to a vessel carrying the maximum number of 
passengers which is less than twelve.
     (2) Any person who contravenes sub-regulation (1) commits an offence under these regulations, and shall be 
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand or to an imprisonment of either description for a 
period not exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
 7. (1) Visiting vessels that are in sri Lanka for participating in races or regattas shall be exempted from registration 
under these regulations.
     (2) Visiting vessels that are in Sri Lanka as support boats for boats in races or regattas are required to obtain a 
t emporary Operational Registration valid for six months from the director-General.
     (3) applications for t emporary Operational Registration shall be made using the application form referred to in 
schedule I to these regulations and the applicable fee and supported with the following documents:-
(a) a valid survey report issued by the national authority of the flag state; and 
(b) a comprehensive P & I insurance cover for the vessel.
PART III
Technical Codes and Technical Panel of Experts
 8. (1) all Non-Convention Vessels registered in sri Lanka shall comply with the applicable t echnical Codes 
prescribed in sub-regulation (2) published by the director-General.
    (2) t echnical Codes are as follows :-
   (a) Internal Waters Craft Code;
(b) small Craft Code (up to length 24 meters);
(c) Large Non-Convention Craft Code (length over 24 meters); and

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
4a
(d) Large y acht Code (length over 24 meters).
 9. (1) the Minister in the exercise of the powers conferred on him by section 12 of the Merchant shipping act, 
No. 52 of 1971 (in these regulations referred to as the “Merchant shipping act”) shall appoint a t echnical Panel of experts 
headed by the director-General with the delegated powers under the Merchant shipping act to publish and maintain the 
t echnical Codes and such relevant codes shall be deemed as published under these regulations.
    (2) the functions of the t echnical Panel shall be as follows:-
(a) to review the Technical Codes after one year from first publication and make recommendations for 
any amendments; 
(b) to review the Technical Codes every five years and make amendments, unless amendments are 
necessitated for safety reasons; and
(c) to provide interpretations of the applicable Codes as requested by the Director-General.
    (3) the t echnical Panel referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall comprise of four persons representing the 
professional expertise areas of Naval architecture, Marine engineering, master mariner and Boat Building t echnology.
    (4) The panel members so appointed shall be professionally qualified and experienced and shall hold  
full-membership (minimum as a member) of an appropriate professional body such as :-
               (a) the Company of Master Mariners of sri Lanka;
(b) society of Chief engineers of sri Lanka;
(c) the Royal Institution of Naval architects (uK);
(d) the society of Naval architects and Marine engineers (usa);
(e) the Nautical Institute (uK);
(f) Institute of Marine engineering, science and t echnology (uK); and
(g) Boat Building t echnology Improvement Institute (BtI) Lanka. 
    (5) a  panel member from the t echnical Panel of experts shall be appointed to serve for a period of four years and 
shall be entitled to remuneration for the work performed in accordance with the rates specified by the Ministry of Finance.
Part IV
Survey and Certification
 10. (1) All Non-Convention Vessels shall be inspected, surveyed, certified and maintained in accordance with the 
applicable t echnical Code.
      (2) the inspection and survey of Non-Convention Vessels to which these regulations apply and issuance of 
appropriate certificates to such vessels shall be carried out by the Director-General.
     (3) subject to sub-regulation (3), the director-General for the purpose of sub-regulation (1) may authorise 
recognised organisations or certifying bodies.
      (4) Survey, inspection and certification of Non-Convention Vessels of more than 100 GT shall only be carried 
out by recognised organisations.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
5a
 11.  (1) the director-General shall authorise recognised organisations in accordance with the provisions of the 
Merchant Shipping (Surveys and Certificates) Regulations, No. 01 of 2022 published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 
2261/49 of January 6, 2022.
    (2) the director-General shall recognise an organisation as a Certifying Body which complies with the 
requirements prescribed in sub-regulation (3) after conducting an audit and shall establish a written agreement with that 
organisation. Such agreement shall define the scope of the delegation of authority. 
       (3) a  certifying body shall :-
(a) be professionally qualified, experienced and resources must be available within the certifying body to 
carry out the range of surveys delegated to the body;
(b) consist of professionals who hold full membership of an appropriate professional body referred to in 
regulation 9;
(c) have sufficient capacity and capability for the efficient handling of the needs of Owners and Operators 
of vessels;
(d) comply with sections 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8 and 4.2 of the Code for Recognised Organisations 
published by International Maritime Organisation by Resolution MsC.349(92); and 
(e) have a letter of authorisation to function as a certifying body issued by the director-General.
     (4) the director-General shall conduct a periodical audit on the certifying bodies to verify the compliance of 
requirements prescribed in sub-regulation (3) of this regulation.  
Part V
Manning
 12. all Non-Convention Vessels in commercial operation shall be manned in accordance with the regulations in this 
section.
 13. (1) Master and other members of the crew on board a Non-Convention Vessel shall hold appropriate licence and 
certificates applicable to the vessel in accordance with the Merchant Shipping (Training, Certification and Watch Keeping 
for seafarers serving onboard ships engaged on domestic V oyages) Regulations, 2024 published in the Gazette No. 2417/17 
of december 31, 2024 and other applicable laws.
      (2) the master and crew on crafts undertaking special operations or operating in a local area shall possess 
licenses with the appropriate endorsements.
       (3) the master or a member of the crew of vessels which operate in area category 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9 shall hold an 
approved Certificate of Proficiency in Elementary First Aid.
      (4) Masters of vessels operating in Area Category 0R, 1, 2 or 3 should hold a Certificate of Proficiency in Medical 
Care unless another member of the crew holds a medical or nursing qualification of an equivalent or a higher standard. The 
Master or nominated first-aider should undertake refresher training at least every five years. 
     (5) Masters of vessels operating in area Category 0R, 1, 2 or 3 should hold a Crowd Management t raining 
Certificate as specified in section A-V/2, of the Seafarers, Training, Certification and Watch keeping Code (STCW Code).
 14. (1) the master shall before the commencement of any voyage, ensure that all persons on board are briefed, as 
a minimum, on the stowage and use of personal safety equipment such as life jackets, thermal protective aids and lifebuoys, 
and the procedures to be followed in cases of emergency.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
6a
      (2) The master shall make an entry in the official log book after completion of each briefing conducted on board 
the ship.
 15. The owner and master of a Non-Convention Vessel shall ensure that there are sufficient trained personnel on 
board to operate the vessel having due regard to the nature and duration of the voyage.
 16. Every Non-Convention Vessel shall carry at least one person holding an appropriate Radio Operator’s Certificate 
suitable for the radio equipment on board and the relevant area of operation.
 17. (1) The minimum manning levels for each Non-Convention Vessel shall be specified by the Director-General 
in the certificate issued to the vessel under the applicable Technical Code. 
        (2) a  Non-Convention Vessel to which this section applies shall not proceed on a voyage or excursion unless the 
manning of the vessel is in accordance with the safe manning level prescribed in the certificate referred to in sub-regulation 
(1).
      (3) Any person who contravenes sub-regulation (2) commits an offence under these regulations and shall be 
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand or to an imprisonment of either description for a 
period not exceeding one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.
       (4) The application for Safe Manning requirements shall be made by the owner, or a person authorised to act on 
his behalf, to the director-General and shall include a clear and concise explanation of how:-
(a) the proposed manning level has been determined;
(b) it takes account of the guidance; and
(c) it takes account of the hours of work provisions including the fatigue.
       (5) In the event of any change in equipment, construction or use of the Non-Convention Vessel, which may affect 
the safe manning level, the owner or operator shall make an application for the re-issue.
        (6) a  safe Manning level of a vessel may be withdrawn if an owner or an operator fails to submit a new proposal 
where a vessel changes trading area(s), construction, machinery or equipment, or operation and the method of maintenance 
have changed, or a vessel persistently fails to comply with the rest hours requirements referred to in sub-regulation (2) of 
regulation 18.
 18. (1) the master shall ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that he and all crew members are properly rested 
when they begin work and obtain adequate rest when not on duty. 
       (2) the minimum hours of rest for anyone employed on board shall be not less than :-
(a) ten hours in any 24-hour period; and
(b) 77 hours in any seven-day period.
      (3) exceptions are allowed so long as they are agreed between the master and crew members, and provided 
that their health and safety, and the safety of the vessel, are not compromised. such exceptions may take account of more 
frequent or longer leave periods or the granting of compensatory leave for watch keeping seafarers or seafarers working on 
board ships on short voyages.
 19. (1) For vessels operating on the basis of watch keeping arrangements, a schedule of duties shall be drawn up by 
the master setting out the hours of work and rest periods.
       (2) In drawing up a schedule, the master shall take the following factors into account:-

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
7a
(a) type of operation;
(b) details of the watch keeping arrangements;
(c) the total workload; and
(d) the seriousness of irregular working hours and their contribution to causing fatigue and the importance 
of scheduling reasonably stable working hours.
      (3) The master shall ensure that there is, at all times, a person with appropriate certification in charge of the 
navigational watch when the vessel is in operation.
Part VI
Carriage of Cargo and Safety of Navigation
 20. (1) Carriage of cargo on Non-Convention Vessels shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Merchant 
Shipping (Carriage of Cargoes and Oil Fuels) Regulations, No. 07 of 2021, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 
2261/55 of January 6, 2022.
       (2) Carriage of dangerous goods on Non-Convention Vessels shall be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Merchant shipping (Carriage of dangerous Goods) Regulations, No. 08 of 2021, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 
2261/56 of January 6, 2022.
       (3) In relation to safety of navigation and equipment for safety of navigation, a Non-Convention Vessel shall 
comply with Merchant shipping (safety of Navigation) Regulations, No. 06 of 2021, published in the Gazette extraordinary 
No.2261/54 of January 6, 2022. 
Part VII
 
Operational Requirements
 21. the master of a Non-Convention Vessel shall ensure that :-
(1) the vessel is navigated at all times in a safe and a controlled manner and all of the conditions of the 
Certificate of Survey are adhered to;
(2) the applicable stability requirements are adhered to at all times;
(3) steering gear, controls and communication systems are tested before every voyage commences and prior 
to entering harbour;
(4) all hatches and openings in the hull of the vessel are kept tightly closed except when being used; and
(5) all watertight doors in subdivision bulkheads are kept tightly closed during the navigation of the vessel 
except when being used for transit between compartments:
 Provided however, the master may divert from the route prescribed in the Certificate or take such other steps as 
deemed necessary and prudent to assist vessels in distress or for other similar emergencies.
 22. (1) the owner, agent, master or person in charge of a vessel involved in a marine casualty shall give notice as 
soon as possible to the director-General whenever the casualty involves any of the following:-
(a) any grounding or collision which creates a hazard to navigation, the environment or the safety of the 
vessel;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
8a
(b) loss of main propulsion, primary steering or any associated component; 
(c) control system, the loss of which causes a reduction of the manoeuvring capabilities of the vessel;
(d) an occurrence materially and adversely affecting the vessel’s seaworthiness or fitness for service or 
route, including but not limited to fire, flooding, failure of or damage to the fixed fire extinguishing 
systems, lifesaving equipment, auxiliary power generating equipment or bilge pumping systems;
(e) loss of life;
(f) injury which requires professional medical treatment beyond first aid and, in the case of a person 
engaged or employed on board a vessel in commercial service, which renders the individual unfit to 
perform routine vessel duties; or
(g) an occurrence resulting in damage to property estimated to be in excess of us $10,000, including the 
cost of labour and material to restore the property to service condition.
     (2) the notice prescribed in sub-regulation (1) shall include the name and identity number of the vessel(s) 
involved, the name of the vessel’s owner or agent, the nature and circumstances of the casualty, the locality in which it 
occurred, the nature and extent of injury to persons and the damage to property.
       (3) In addition to the notice required by sub-regulation (1), the owner, master, agent or person in charge of the 
vessel shall, within three days, provide details to the Director-General using the appropriate reporting forms specified in 
schedule IV hereto.
 23. (1) Every vessel shall maintain an official Logbook on board. The master shall make or should have made in the 
Logbook the following entries:-
(a) details of the voyage, including course and weather conditions at least every 4 hours, and tests required 
in this Part (Part VII);
(b) when a marine casualty occurs, a statement about the casualty and the circumstances under which it 
occurred, made immediately after the casualty when practicable to do so;
(c) each death on board and the cause of death;
(d) the name of each seaman who ceases to be a crew member, except by death, with the time, place, 
manner and the cause why the seaman ceased to be a crew member; and
(e) details of drills and training prescribed in these regulations.
       (2) The log entry required by sub-regulation (1) in respect of an abandoned ship, men overboard and fire drills 
shall include the following information :-
(a) date of the drill and training; and
(b) general description of the drill scenario and training topics.
 24. The master shall not take onboard fuel having a flashpoint of 43.3 °C (110 °F) or lower, when passengers are 
on board.
 25. Whenever an automatic pilot is used, the master shall ensure that:-
(a) it is possible at all times to immediately establish manual control of the vessel’s steering;

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
9a
(b) a competent person is ready at all times to take over steering control; and
(c) the changeover from automatic to manual steering and vice versa is made by, or under the supervision 
of the master or the senior officer on watch.
 26. (1) the Owner, Charterer, Operator or master of a vessel making a voyage shall:-
(a) keep an accurate record of all persons, who embark on and disembark from the vessel, including the 
names and gender, distinguishing between adults, children and infants; and
(b) keep an accurate, written count of all passengers who embark on and disembark from the vessel. Prior 
to departing on a voyage, the passenger count shall be deposited ashore in a well-marked location or 
with a representative of the owner or managing operator of the vessel.
 27. (1) Before getting underway on a voyage where passengers are carried, the master of a vessel shall ensure that 
suitable public announcements are made informing all passengers of the following, as applicable to the vessel’s operations 
and arrangement:-
   (a) a general explanation of emergency procedures;
(b) the location of emergency exits and survival craft embarkation areas;
(c) the stowage location of life jackets;
(d) the proper method of putting on and adjusting life jackets of the type carried on the vessel including 
a demonstration of the proper donning of a life jacket;
(e) the location of the instruction placard for life jackets and other lifesaving devices; and
(f)  that all passengers will be required to wear life jackets when possible hazardous conditions exist, as 
directed by the master.
(2) as an alternative to an announcement that complies with sub-regulation (1), the master or other designated 
person may:-
(a) prior to getting underway, deliver to each passenger or, on a vessel that does not carry vehicles and 
that has seats for each passenger, place near each seat, a card or pamphlet that has the information 
listed in sub-regulation (1); and
(b) make an abbreviated announcement consisting of:-
(i)   a statement that passengers should follow the instructions of the crew in an emergency;
(ii)  the location of life jackets; and
(iii) further information concerning emergency procedures including the donning of life jackets, 
location of other emergency equipment, and emergency evacuation procedures which are 
located on the card or pamphlet that was given to each passenger or is located near each seat.
       (3) The Passenger Vessels operating on short runs of less than fifteen minutes may substitute bulkhead placards 
or signs for the announcement required in sub-regulations (1) and (2) where the Director-General determines that the 
announcements are not practical due to the vessel’s unique operation.
     (4) On a vessel on a voyage of more than twelve hours duration, passengers shall be instructed to put on 
lifejackets and go to the appropriate embarkation station during the safety orientation. Where only a small number of 
passengers embark at a port after the original muster has been held, these passengers shall be given the passenger safety 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
10a
orientation required by sub-regulations (1) and (2) if another muster is not held.
        (5) The master of a vessel shall require passengers to wear lifejackets when possible hazardous conditions exist, 
including, but not limited to:-
 (a) when transiting hazardous bars and inlets;
(b) during severe weather;
(c) in the event of flooding, fire or other events which may possibly call for evacuation; and
(d) when the vessel is being towed.
       (6) Sufficient emergency instructions shall be posted to enable passengers to know what action should be taken 
in the event of an emergency.
      (7) Sufficient instructions on how to donned life jackets shall be posted to enable passengers to undertake this 
action in the event of an emergency.
       (8) the master and crew of a vessel shall be familiar with the content of emergency instructions containing the 
actions to be taken in the event of fire, heavy weather, or man overboard conditions. Such instructions shall be available at 
the operating station.
      (9) An emergency instruction placard containing the required information from the recommended format 
provided as guidance by the Director-General shall satisfy the requirements of sub-regulation (6).
    (10) except when in the opinion of the director-General the operation of a vessel does not present any of 
the hazards listed, the emergency Instruction Placard shall contain at least the applicable portions of the “emergency 
Instructions” specified in Schedule V to these regulations. The emergency instructions shall be designed to take account of 
the equipment, arrangement, and operation of each individual vessel.
   (11) Where the director-General determines that there is no suitable mounting surface aboard the vessel, 
the emergency instructions need not be posted but shall be carried aboard the vessel and be available to the crew for 
familiarization.
     (12) On a vessel of more than 24 meters in length that is required to have more than four crew members at any one 
time, including the master, a muster list shall be posted by the master at the operating station and in a conspicuous location 
in each crew accommodation space.
    (13) The muster list required by sub-regulation (12) shall set forth the special duties and duty station of each 
crew member for various emergencies. the duties shall, as far as possible, be consistent with the regular work of the 
individual. the duties shall include at least the following and any other duties necessary for the proper handling of a 
particular emergency:-
(a)  the closing of hatches, air ports, watertight doors, vents, scuppers, and valves for intake and discharge 
lines that penetrate the hull, the stopping of fans and ventilating systems, and the operating of all 
safety equipment;
(b) the preparing and launching of survival craft and rescue boats;
(c) the extinguishing of fire; and
(d) the mustering of passengers including the following:

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
11 a
(i) warning the passengers;
(ii) assembling the passengers and directing them to their appointed stations; and
(iii) keeping order in the passageways and stairways and generally controlling the movement of 
the passengers.
 28. (1) The master shall conduct training and drills to give sufficient instructions to make sure that all crew members 
are familiar with their duties during emergencies that necessitate abandoning the ship, the recovery of persons who have 
fallen overboard and in the event of fire onboard.
       (2) On passenger vessels, the master shall conduct one abandon ship and one fire drill once every month and on 
all other vessels one abandon ship and one fire drill should be held every two months. 
       (3) Where more than 25% of the crew have not participated in a drill in the previous month on board the vessel, 
irrespective of the type of ship, the master shall conduct an abandon ship and a fire drill within forty-eight hours of such a 
crew change.
      (4) each abandon ship drill shall as far as practicable, be conducted as if there were an actual emergency and 
include the following:
   (a) summoning the crew to report to assigned stations and prepare for assigned duties;
(b) summoning passengers on a vessel on an overnight voyage to muster stations or embarkation stations 
and ensuring that they are made aware of how the order to abandon ship will be given;
(c) checking that lifejackets are correctly worn; and
(d) instructions on the automatic and manual deployment of survival craft.
      (5) each rescue boat where provided, shall be launched with its assigned crew aboard and manoeuvre in the 
water as if during an actual man overboard situation:-
   (a) once every month, where reasonable and practicable; but
(b) at least once within a three-month period before the vessel gets underway with passengers.
       (6) Each fire drill shall as far as practicable, be conducted as if there were an actual emergency and include the 
following:-
   (a) summoning the crew to report to assigned stations and to prepare for and demonstrate assigned duties;
(b) summoning passengers on a vessel on an overnight voyage to muster or embarkation stations; and
(c) instructions in the use and location of fire alarms, extinguishers, and any other firefighting equipment 
on board.
 29. the Owner and the master shall ensure that the following markings are provided on each vessel:-
   (a) all lifesaving and firefighting equipment shall be marked with the vessel’ s name;
(b) all escape hatches and other emergency exits used as means of escape shall be marked on both sides 
in clearly legible letters at least 50mm (2 inches) high: “eMeRGeNCy  eXIt , KeeP CLeaR”, unless 
such markings are deemed unnecessary by the director-General;
(c) remote fuel shutoff stations shall be marked in clear, legible letters at least 25mm (1 inch) high 
indicating purpose of the valve and direction of operation; and

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
12a
(d) watertight doors and watertight hatches shall be marked on both sides in clearly legible letters at least 
25mm (1 inch) high: “W ateR tIGHt  dOOR – KeeP CLOsed” or “W ateR tIGHt  HatCH – 
KeeP CLOsed”, unless such markings are deemed unnecessary by the director-General. 
 30. Complete but simple instructions for the operation of a fixed gas fire extinguishing system shall be located in a 
conspicuous place at or near each pull box and stop valve control and in the space where the extinguishing agent cylinders 
are stored. 
 
 31. (1) each launching appliance, each survival craft and rescue boat on a vessel shall be in good working order and 
ready for immediate use before the vessel leaves port and at all times when the vessel is underway.
         (2) each deck where survival craft or rescue boats are stowed or boarded shall be kept clear of obstructions that 
could interfere with the boarding and launching of the survival craft or rescue boat. 
    (3) All lifesaving equipment shall be maintained in accordance with these regulations and manufacturer’s 
instructions. 
 32. (1) The Owner shall ensure that instruction manuals are available for all equipment and machinery onboard the 
ship.
      (2) all instruction manuals, signs, notices, plans and documents relating to the safety and operation of the ship 
and its machinery and equipment shall be in the official languages and, where applicable, the working languages of the crew.
PART VIII
General Provisions
 33. (1) the Merchant shipping (small Commercial Vessels) Regulations, 2017 published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 2017/31 of May 4, 2017 are hereby rescinded.
           (2) Certificate of Survey already issued under the Merchant Shipping (Small Commercial Vessels) Regulations, 
2017 published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 2017/31 of May 4, 2017 will remain valid for the duration of validity. upon 
expiry of existing certificates, the vessels should be registered and certificated under these regulations.
       (3) Existing vessels other than passenger vessels shall comply with these regulations not later than five years 
from the regulations coming into force or the expiry of the current Certificate of Survey whichever is earlier.
       (4) existing passenger vessels shall comply with these regulations within one year of the regulations coming 
into force or the expiry of the current Certificate of Survey whichever is earlier.
         (5) existing vessels shall by virtue of having been in operation, be deemed as being of an acceptable standard in 
terms of structural design for the area that they are currently operating in, and shall not be required to meet the construction 
and structural design standards specified in the Technical Codes referred to in regulation 8.
        (6) If changes to the area of operations are required for an existing vessel, an assessment and compliance against 
the applicable t echnical Code shall be determined by the director-General based on the increase of risks due to the new area 
of operations and the risks associated with any increase in the number of persons carried on board.
       (7) (a) all existing vessels shall have stability documentation in accordance with the t echnical Codes;
(b) existing Passenger Crafts shall have completed stability tests and documentation within six months 
from the date of publication of these regulations. the number of passengers to be carried shall be limited 
by stability considerations as well as the space limitations in accordance with the applicable t echnical 
Code; and

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
13a
(c) Stability documentation already provided on board an existing vessel and which meets the requirements 
of the applicable code shall be considered as having met the requirement of paragraph (a) of  
sub-regulation (7) of regulation 33.
 34. In these regulations –
“act” means the Merchant shipping act, No. 52 of 1971;
“boat” means a vessel of less than 24 meters in length, or a vessel of less than 150Gt . It can be a boat, air 
cushion vehicle, sailing craft, inflatable craft etc.;
“cargo” means all items which are transported by the vessel except fuel for the vessel, ballast (either solid or 
liquid), consumables to be used on board, permanent outfit and equipment of the boat, stores 
and spare gear for the boat, crew and their personal baggage and passengers and their personal 
baggage, and activity related equipment;
“certifying body” means a company or a professional to whom the director-General has delegated the 
examination (survey) and certification of vessels to which the Non-Convention Vessels 
regulations and t echnical codes apply;
“craft” means having the same meaning as ship;
“domestic voyage” means a voyage from a port in sri Lanka to the same or another port in sri Lanka;
“existing craft” means a craft already in operation in sri Lanka at the time these regulations come into 
force. this does not include any craft built before the entry into force date that has not been in 
operation in sri Lanka waters;
“Gross Tonnage (GT)” means as defined by the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of 
Ships 1969 and as stated on the Tonnage Certificate;
“internal Waters” means all water and waterways on the landward side of the baseline from which the 
territorial waters are measured;
“international voyage” means a voyage outside the territorial jurisdiction of sri Lanka, i.e. voyages from or 
to a port in the territorial waters of sri Lanka or to a port or from a port of another country;
“length” means either 96 percent of the total length on a water line at 85 percent of the least moulded depth 
measured from the top of the keel, or the length from the fore side of the stem to the axis of 
the rudder stock on that water line, whichever is greater. In a boat designed with a rake of keel, 
the water line on which this length is measured should be parallel to the design water line;
“nautical mile” means 1852 meters;
“Net Tonnage (NT)” as defined by the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships 1969 
and stated on the Tonnage Certificate;
“Non-Convention Vessels” means Vessels for which the IMO Conventions do not apply, and vessels 
operating solely on domestic voyages for which the director-General has granted exemptions 
from the applicable IMO Conventions that apply due to the vessels Gt .  Where due to the Gt  
of the vessel or area of operation parts of IMO Conventions are applicable they would apply 
unless an exemption has been granted by the director-General;
“P&I” means Protection and Indemnity Insurance;

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
14a
“Pilot boat” means a boat employed or intended to be employed in pilotage services, and ‘dedicated pilot 
boat’ means a pilot boat of whatever size which is primarily employed in pilotage services 
and other occasional services undertaken such as the carriage of personnel, mail, and small 
quantities of stores to or from boats in the pilotage district;
“ s hip” means a waterborne vessel of more than 24 meters in length, or a vessel of more than 150Gt ;
“vessel” means a ship or boat as defined in these regulations;
“vessel groups” means the categorisation of a boat or ship in accordance to its intended use as defined by 
the Merchant Shipping (Vessel Classification and Certification) Regulations, 2024 published 
in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2417/16 of december 31, of 2024;
“work boat” means a Non-Convention Vessel in commercial use for purposes other than sport or pleasure, 
excluding a dedicated pilot boat.
SChEDULE I
(Regulation 5(2))
APPLICATION fORM fOR ThE REGISTRATION Of NON-CONVENTION VESSELS
Notes :
(a) the Register is a Public Register 
(b) A Certificate of Registry is proof of registration and not evidence of ownership.
(c) A vessel is not registered and entitled to fly the Sri Lanka flag until a Certificate of Registry is issued.
(d) sections 1 and 4 must be completed in all cases
(e) section 2 must be completed if the vessel has been registered before in any way or in another country
(f) section 3 must be completed for t emporary Operational Registration
(g) Is this application for t emporary Operational Registration: y es  No
(h) Reason for application:  1
st  Registration  t ransfer of Ownership
(i) Fee enclosed:   US $  
Section 1 : Details of the Vessel
Name of Vessel:
(include several names in order of 
preference)
Port of Registry:
Radio Call sign
Name and address of Radio Licensing 
authority if applicable:(copy of the 
application to be attached)
IMO Number:
Hull Identification Number:
t ype of Vessel:

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
15a
Hull Construction Material:
Length of Vessel:
Gross t onnage:
Net t onnage:
y ear of Build:
Name and address of Builder:
Country of Build:
t ype of Propulsion:
Installed Propulsion Power:
Fuel:
Proposed area of Operation:
design Category of Vessel:
Proposed Manning:
Section 2 : Vessel history - Previous Registration Details
Name (if Different from Section 1) :
Previous names :
Previous Registration Number :
Previous Port of Registration :
Previous Country of Registration :
Registered Length :
Section 3 : Details for Temporary Operational Registrations
Note:- t emporary Operational Registration is available for maximum six months and is only available for the 
purpose specified in Regulation 7(3) of the Merchant Shipping (Non-Convention Vessel) Regulations 2023
Purpose of Request :

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
16a
activities the vessel will perform while in 
sri Lanka waters :
Local Representative / agent details :
Name and address of P & I Insurance :
(Insurance certificate to be attached)
Section 4 : Details of the Applicant
Name of applicant :
address of applicant :
t elephone Number :
email :
Name and address of Owner :
(If vessel is owned by corporate entity)
Name/address and Nationality of Chairman/
President :
Names/ address and Nationality of 
directors :
I…………………………………………. of …………………………………. herewith submit the application for 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
17a
registration of the vessel mentioned herein. I certify that the above-mentioned particulars are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge and belief.
Name: signature :
date:
(Regulation 5(5))
SChEDULE II
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
CERTIfICATE Of  REGISTRATION - NON-CONVENTION VESSELS
PROVISIONAL / TEMPORARY OPERATIONAL / FULL
t ype of Vessel : …RIB / Motor / Sail / Motor or Sail Catamaran ………………..
Vessel Group  : ……………………………………………..
area of Operation :
Particulars of Vessel
Name of Vessel : distinctive Numbers :
Registration Number : Port of Registry :
IMO Number (If a vailable) :
Hull No :
Length :
Installed Power :
Gross t onnage :
date of Build* :
Hull Material :
Propulsion :
Fuel :
Net t onnage :
* date on which the Keel was laid or at similar stage of construction or where applicable date on which work for 
conversion or an alteration or modification of a major character was commenced
details of Registered Ownership
Name(s) of Owner address(es) of Owner shares held
I hereby certify that the details of the ship and registered ownership listed on this certificate are in accordance with the 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
18a
details registered in the Register of Non-Convention Vessels 
Provisional and Temporary Operational Registration certificates are valid for six months from the date of issue
Issued at :        date of issue
  
Name/Signature of authorized official          Seal or stamp of certifying body
(Regulation 5(1))
SChEDULE III
Applicable Fees
Non-Convention  vessel- t rading Internationally
1. Registration fees
(a) small vessel (up to 24 meters)
(b) Large Non-Convention vessel (over 24 
meters)
us $ 500 plus us $  1 per Nt
us $ 750 plus us $ 1 per Nt
2. Provisional Registration (valid for 6 
months)
(a) small vessel (up to 24 meters)
(b) Large Non-Convention vessel (over 24 
meters)
us $  200
us $  400
3. t emporary Operational Registration
(a) small vessel (up to 24 meters)
(b) Large Non-Convention vessel (over 24 
meters)
us $ 250 plus us $ 1 per Nt
us $ 400 plus us $ 1 per Nt
4. Re-issuance of registration certificate
(after change of ownership or substantial 
alteration)
us $ 300 plus us $ 1 per Nt
5. Issue of Certification
(a) Small vessel Code Certificate
  
(b) Large Non-Convention vessel 
Code Certificate
(c) Other statutory certificates
us $ 150
us $ 200
                       us $ 150 each

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
19a
6. Survey Fees  
(a) annual survey Fees 
(i) small vessel (up to 24 meters)
(ii) Large Non-Convention vessel (over 
24 meters)
(b) Renewal  and special  survey fees
(i) small vessel (up to 24 meters)
(ii) Large Non-Convention vessel (over 
24 meters)
us $ 200
us $ 350
us $ 350
us $ 500
Non-Convention  Vessels trading in sri Lanka  waters
1. Registration fees
(a) Internal Waters Craft 
(b) small vessel (up to 24 meters)
(c) Large Non-Convention vessel (over 
24 meters)
us $ 75 plus us $ 1 per Nt
us $ 250 plus us $ 1 per Nt
us $ 500 plus us $ 1 per Nt
2. Provisional Registration (valid for 6 
months)
(a) Internal Waters craft
(b) small vessel (up to 24 meters)
(c) Large Non-Convention vessel (over 24 
meters)
us $ 25
us $ 100
us $ 250
3. t emporary Operational Registration
(a) Internal Waters Craft 
(b) small vessel (up to 24 meters)
(c) Large Non-Convention vessel (over 
24 meters)
us $ 75 plus us $ 1 per Nt
us $ 100 plus us $ 1 per Nt
us $ 200 plus us $ 1 per Nt
4. Re-issuance of registration certificate
(after change of ownership or substantial 
alteration)
us $ 150 plus us $ 1 per Nt

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
20a
5. Issue of Certification
(a) Internal Waters Craft Code 
Certificate
(b) Small vessel Code Certificate
  
(c) Large Non-Convention vessel Code 
Certificate
(d) Other statutory certificates
                               us $   75
us $ 100
us $ 150
us $ 100 each
6. Survey Fees  
annual survey Fees 
(a) Internal Waters Craft 
(b) small vessel (up to 24 meters)
(c) Large Non-Convention vessel (over 24 
meters)
Renewal  and special  survey fees
(a) Internal Waters Craft 
(b) small vessel (up to 24 meters)
(c) Large Non-Convention vessel (over 24 
meters)
us $ 80
                                us $ 150
us $ 250
us $ 100
us $ 200
us $ 350
us $ 150
7. Issue of Record of Compliance document for private vessels [Group 4] 
 – Vessels in private use for sport or pleasure (not for hire) 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
21a
SChEDULE IV
   (Regulation 22(3)
MSS
Merchant shipping secretariat
Ship Registration and Safety Unit
Accident Report f orm
document No. SR-FO-11
date of 1 st issue 2015-12-28
Reviewed by MR
approved by dGMs
Revised status 0
Revised date
REPORT O f  VESSEL CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT
I. PARTICULARS Of  ThE VESSEL
1. Name of Vessel/Flag : 2. IMO Number : 3.y ear built : 4. Gross t onnage : 5. Net t onnage :
6. t ype of Vessel : 7. Propulsion : 8. Place Built :
9.Name of Owner : 10.Name, address and t elephone of Management Company :
11. (a) Name of master or person 
in charge :
(b) Citizenship : (c) d ate of Birth : (d) address :
II. PARTICULARS Of  CASUALTY
12.(a) date of Casualty : (b) t ime (Local or Zone) (c) utC : (d) t ime of day :
day Night t wilight
13.Geographical Position of Casualty  Latitude:
Longitude:
14.Geographical location :
15.(a) If Casualty occurred underway, Port of departure  : (b) date of departure: (c) Port to Which Bound :
16. (a) Nature of Cargo ( d escribe and give amounts in Long 
t ons)  :
(b) amount of d ry 
Cargo :
(c) amount of Bulk 
Liquid :
(d) amount of 
deck Cargo :
17. speed in Knots Prior to 
Casualty  :
18. t rue Course Prior to Casualty: 19.Draft Forward : 20. draft aft :
21. atmospheric Conditions at t ime of Casualty :
Clear Partly Cloudy Overcast Fog Rain  snow Other (specify)
22. distance of visibility: 
under two Miles
2-5 Miles
Over 5 Miles
23. Wind:
Light
Moderate to Fresh Storm to
Hurricane
24. sea :
s mooth to slight 
Moderate to Rough 
High
25. Wind direction
26. direction of sea:
27. direction of swell:
28. Navigation Equipment (Check one or more of the 
following) :
Radar ( s B and or X Band)  aRP a  Inoperative  
Inoperative used   
29.Communications Equipment (check one or more of the following) 
:
Radio telephone                                Other type of communication In  
use with Other Vessels                    In use with Other Vessels
In use with shore stations              In use with shore stations 
Not used                                          Not used
30. a uto alarm t ransmitted by your Vessel? y es/No 31. Rules of the road applicable at t ime: 
International Other (specify)

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
22a
MSS
Merchant shipping secretariat
Ship Registration and Safety Unit
Accident Report f orm
document No. SR-FO-10
date of 1 st issue 2015-12-28
Reviewed by MR
approved by dGMs
Revised status 0
Revised date
32. INCIDENT TYPE (INITIAL CASUALTY EVENT)
a Collision striking another ship
(Regardless of whether underway, anchored, moored)
B stranding/Grounding Being aground or touching shore or sea bottom or underwater objects (wrecks)
C Contact Striking any fixed or floating object other than those included in Collision
d Fire or Explosion
e Hull Failure Not caused by any of the above
F Machinery d amage Which necessitated towage or shore assistance
G damages to s hip Not caused by any of the above
H Capsizing/ Listing Not caused by any of the above
I Missing: assumed Lost
J Labour
K Other any other NOt  covered by any of the above
33. DESCRIPTION OF CASUALTY (Events and circumstances leading to casualty and present when it occurred. Attach diagram 
and additional sheets, if necessary)
34.Number of  
Personnel
Crew Passengers Other t otal 35. estimated Property Losses
(a) On Board (a) t o vessel
 (b) dead (b) t o cargo
(c) Missing (c) t o other property
(d)  Injured 36. Is Vessel a t otal Loss?         y es No
37.Remarks (Indicate assistance rendered by shore stations and vessels; recommendations for corrective safety measures. attach 
additional sheets, if necessary)
38. Deck Officer on Duty at Time of Casualty : 39.engineer on duty at t ime of Casualty :
Name : Name :
Capacity : Licence No. : Capacity : License No. :
40. date of 
Report :
41. submitted by (Print name) : 42. signature : 43.t itle :

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
23a
MSS
Merchant shipping secretariat
Ship Registration and Safety Unit
Accident Report f orm
document No. SR-FO-11
date of 1 st issue 2015-12-28
Reviewed by MR
approved by dGMs
Revised status 0
Revised date
REPORT Of  PERSONAL INJURY OR LOSS Of  LIfE
I. PARTICULARS Of  VESSEL
1.Name of Vessel : 2. IMO Number : 3. Name, address and t elephone, t el/ fax No. of 
Management Company :
4. t ype of Vessel : 5. Propulsion :
6. Name and address of Owner :
II. PARTICULARS Of  PERSON INJURED, DECEASED OR MISSING (Believed dead)
7.(a) Name of Person : (b) Home address : (c) d ate of Birth :
(c) Citiznship :
8. seaman´s Book or Passport No. : 9. status or Capacity on Vessel :
10. activity engaged in at t ime of Casualty : 11. If Crew Member or shore Worker :
On Watch Working Other
12. (a) Name of Immediate supervisor at t ime of Casualty : (b) supervisor´s capacity or status on Vessel
III. PARTICULARS Of  CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT
13.(a) d ate of Casualty : (b) t ime (Local or Zone) : (c) utC : (d) t ime of day :
day Night t wilight
14. Geographical Location of Vessel at time of Casualty :
15.(a) If Casualty occurred underway, 
Port of departure :
(b) date of departure : (c) Port to Which Bound :
16.(a) Result Of Casualty:
Injury                                          death                                Missing               (Complete INJuR y  or deatH entries below, as  appropriate)
(b) Nature of Injury : (c) t otal d ays Incapacitated :
(d) Reason for death : (e) Location of Individual at death :
(f) d ate of death :

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
24a
MSS
Merchant shipping secretariat
Ship Registration and Safety Unit
Accident Report f orm
document No. SR-FO-11
date of 1 st issue 2015-12-28
Reviewed by MR
approved by dGMs
Revised status 0
Revised date
description Of Casualty (Give events leading up to casualty and how it occurred. a ttach diagram and additional sheets, if necessary) :
17.Witnesses to a ccident (at least two, if possible) :
Name : Name :
address : address :
Name : Name :
address : address :
IV . ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS
18.(a) MedICO (Medical) MessaGe  
seNt  :
(b) IF YES, GIVE DATE OF FIRST 
MessaGe :
(c) IF YES, GIVE TIME OF FIRST 
MessaGe  :
(Local or zone and description)
19.(a) tReatMeNt  adMINIsteRed :
y es No
(b) IF YES, BY WHOM :
s hip´s doctor Other ships ‘Personnel Other ( s pecify)
20. BRIEFLY DESCRIBE TREATMENT (If administered by other than M.D) :
21. (a) Name of Hospital, If Person was 
Hospitalized :
(b) address of Hospital :
22. Recommendations for Corrective safety Measures Pertinent to this Casualty :
23. date of Report : 24. submitted by 
(Print Name) :
25. signature : 26. t itle  :

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
25a
SChEDULE V
 (Regulation 27(10))
Recommended Emergency Instructions format
An emergency instruction placard containing the following information will satisfy the requirements of clause 77.
eMeRGeNCy  INstRuCtIONs
Rough weather at sea, crossing hazardous bars or flooding :-
1. Close all watertight and weather tight doors, hatches, and air pipes to prevent taking water aboard.
2. Keep bilges dry to prevent loss of stability due to water in bilges. use power driven bilge pump, hand pump, and 
buckets to dewater.
3. Arrange fire pumps to be used as bilge pumps where permitted.
4. Check all intake and discharge lines, which penetrate the hull, for leakage.
5  Passengers shall remain seated and evenly distributed as directed by the master.
6. Passengers shall wear life jackets when instructed by the master.
7. Where assistance is needed follow the procedures on the emergency broadcast placard posted by the radio-
telephone.
8. Prepare survival craft (life floats), (inflatable) rafts, (inflatable) buoyant apparatus, boats for launching.
9. Instructions to abandon the vessel shall not be given unless in the opinion of the master the risk of persons remaining 
on board exceeds the risk of evacuating the vessel.
Man overboard :-
1. throw a life buoy overboard as close to the person as possible.
2. Post a lookout to keep the person overboard in sight.
3. Launch the rescue boat and manoeuvre to pick up person in the water or manoeuvre the vessel to pick up the person 
in the water.
4. Have a crew member put on lifejacket, attach a safety line to the member, and have the member stand by ready to 
jump into the water to assist the person overboard if necessary.
5. Where person is not immediately located, notify sri Lanka Navy and other vessels in vicinity by radio-telephone.
6. Continue search until released by sri Lanka Navy or where the master considers it impracticable to continue the 
search.
Fire :-
1. Cut off air supply to fire – close items such as hatches, ports, doors, ventilators, and louvers, and shut off ventilation 
system.
2. Cut off electrical system supplying affected compartment if possible.
3. Deploy the fixed fire extinguishing system where fitted.
4. Where safe, immediately use portable fire extinguishers at base of flames for flammable liquid or grease fires or 
water for fires in ordinary combustible materials. Do not use water on electrical fire.
5. Where fire is in machinery spaces, shut off fuel supply and ventilation and activate fixed extinguishing system if 
installed.
6. Manoeuvre vessel to minimize effect of wind on fire.
7. Where unable to control fire, immediately notify the Sri Lanka Navy and other craft in the vicinity by radio-
telephone.
8. Move passengers away from fire, have them put on lifejackets, and where necessary, prepare to abandon the vessel.
eOG 01 - 0009 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.