

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
365
365
wxl 1"748 - 2012 ud¾;= 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'03'02
No. 1,748 – FRIDAY , MARCH 02, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 368
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 371
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 09th March, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th
February, 2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
366
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
367
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
368
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd Apr il, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
08th February, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called applications should be sent
Galle Balapitiya Post of Registrar of Marriage (General) of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Wellaboda Pattuwa and Births and General, District Secretariat,
Deaths of Balapitiya Division Galle.
03–26
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
NUWARA-ELIYA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
369
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd Apr il, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
08th February, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Nuwara-Eliya Nuwara-Eliya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Nuwara Eliya Division General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths of Kotagala Nuwara-Eliya.
Division
03–27
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  SURVEY   DEPARTMENT
Recruitment to the Post of Apprentice Surveyors in the
Sri Lanka Survey Department
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka
possessing the following qualifications to be appointed to the post
of Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey Department.
Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen given below
should be sent to “The Surveyor General, Surveyor General’s Office,
No. 150, Kirula Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05.” under registered
cover to reach him on or before 23.03.2012. The wording
“Application for the Post of Apprentice Surveyors” should be
clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing
the application. Applications sent through other means except by
post will be rejected.
02. Every candidate should have fulfilled the following eligibility
requirements and must furnish proof that he/she,
(a) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Is of excellent moral character and physically sound,
(c) Is not less than 22 years and not more than 33 years on
the closing date of application,
(d) Should have complied with the all educational
qualifications on the closing date of application.
03. Conditions of Service :
(i) Salary.– The consolidated monthly salary scale assigned
to this post is as follows :
P.A. Circular No. 06/2006(iv) MN-5A- Rs. 16,720 -
10x 320 - 11 x 365 - 15 x 450 - Rs. 30,685.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(iii) Selected candidates will be appointed to the post of
Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey
Department subject to the general conditions governing
the appointments of the public service and to the
conditions specified in the Surveyors’ Service Minute
published in the Extraordinary Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,434/5
dated 27.02.2006 and to the amendments which have
been made or may be made from time to time to said
Minute.
04. Conditions of Appointment :
(i) Those who are appointed should undergo training in
departmental matters for a period of 06 months.
(ii) They are bound to furnish security to the amount
of Rs. 25,000 for the government stores issued to them.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
370
(iii) After completion of training period, they are subject to
serve the Survey Department as a surveyor in the Sri
Lanka Surveyors’ service for a period of 06 years and for
that purpose they are required to enter into an agreement
and a security bond with a surety having assets worth
not less than a sum of Rs. 150,000.
05. Educational Qualifications. – Should have a degree in
surveying science obtained from a recognized university or
Institution recognized by the University Grants Commission.
06. Method of Selection.– Selection will be made on the results
of an Interview. In this regard, special consideration will be given to
the Surveying Science Graduates of the same batch who have passed
out from a recognised University. The order of merit obtained at the
Degree Examination will also be taken into consideration. All the
surveying science graduates, who furnish the applications and have
complied with the relevant qualifications should present themselves
before the interview board when called, together with the originals
and photo copies of the under-mentioned documents :
(i) Certificate of birth ;
(ii) Degree certificate and the other educational certificates ;
(iii) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or a valid passport ;
(iv) Two character certificates - One of which should be from
the Grama Seva Niladhari of your area, counter-signed by
the Divisional Secretary concerned ;
(v) Certificates of computer proficiency ;
(vi) Certificates to prove the knowledge of the other languages
in addition to the mother tongue ;
(vii) Sport certificates.
07. Applications not having the necessary requirements and
which are received after the closing date will be rejected.
08. If any candidate is found to be disqualified he/she is liable
for the cancellation of his/her candidature before the interview or at
the time of interview or after the interview or at any time thereafter.
09. Candidates already employed in the Public Service should
forward their applications through the Head of their respective
Departments. The Survey Department is in no way responsible for
any loss of applications in the post.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
S. M. W. F
ERNANDO,
Surveyor General,
Sri Lanka Survey Department.
No. 150, Kirula Road,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05,
17th February, 2012.
SRI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
A
PPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF APPRENTICE
SURVEYORS IN THE SRI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals eg. : Silva, A. B.)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
1.5 Date of issue :––––––––––.
02. Address :
2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Postal address :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
03. Ethnicity :
Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4, Other - 5
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
3.1 Citizenship :––––––––––.
(whether by descent or by registration, if by registration,
give registration No.)
04. Sex :
Female - 1,  Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
05. Civil status :––––––––––.
06. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
6.1 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––, Dates :–––––––.
07. Educational qualifications :
(i) University/Institution :––––––––––.
(ii) Degree and year of graduation :––––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number and Date :––––––––––.
(iv) External/Internal :––––––––––.
(v) Index No. :––––––––––.
(vi) Class (upper/lower) :––––––––––.
(vii) Medium of language in which you appeared for the exam :
––––––––––.
08. Details of the courses in Computer Science followed :––––––.
09. Proficiency in other languages in addition to the mother tongue :
––––––––––.
10. Sports :––––––––––.
11. Other qualifications :––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
371
12. If ever convicted of any criminal offence in a Court of Law, give
full particulars of it :––––––––––.
13. If you are already in government service, state whether you
had been subjected to interdiction from service upto the date of
receiving applications :––––––––––.
I do certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and correct.
I am aware that if any particulars given by me herein are found
to be false or incorrect, I am liable for disqualification if detected
before selection and for dismissal from service if detected after the
appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
(This is applicable only to the candidates already employed in
the Public Service).
–––––––––––,
Surveyor General.
The particulars furnished by Mr./Mrs./Miss. .................. who
serves in this Institution are correct. He/She has not been subjected
to any disciplinary action and he/she can be/cannot be released
from the service if he/she is selected for the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Frank)
Date :––––––––––.
03–273
EFFICIENCY   BAR   EXAMINATION   AND   SECOND   LANGUAGE   TEST   FOR   OFFICERS   IN
SRI   LANKA   ADMINISTRATIVE   SERVICE,   SRI   LANKA   ENGINEERING   SERVICE,   SRI   LANKA   SCIENTIFIC
SERVICE   AND   SRI   LANKA   ARCHITECTS’   SERVICE  –  2012(I)
IT is hereby notified that Efficiency Bar Examinations and Second Language Proficiency Tests for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative
Service, Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects’ Service will be held in Colombo in during
weekends from 28th April, 2012 to 26th May, 2012, by the Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration, under t he
supervision and direction of Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
02. Time tables will be prepared in such a manner that officers may be able to sit for both efficiency bar examinations in one
occasion.
03. Efficiency Bar Examinations and Second Language Proficiency Tests which are due to be held in respect of the above services
will be as follows :–
Serial Name of the Examination Code
No.
1. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service A
2. 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service B
3. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service C
4. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service D
5. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Architects’ Service E
6. Second Language Test (For all relerant services) F
04. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is compulsory t o
pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period.
05. This examination will be conducted by the Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration and the candidates
will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to the same. Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed
by Disciplinary Authority for violation of these rules and regulations.
06. Application should conform to the specimen appended hereto. Applicants should prepare their own applications according to
the specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to "Director, Sri
Lanka Institute of Development Administration, No. 28/10, Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo 07 " to reach him on or before
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
372
26th March, 2012. Name of the examination should be clearly indicated on top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is
forwarded to Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
07. Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper of A4 size in such a manner that Paragraph Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear
on the first page and the remaining on the other pages. The application could be typewritten but it should be filled in correctly and legibly
by candidate’s own handwriting. Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended and candidates are advised not to send
photocopies of the application.
7.1 Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the Title of the Examination appearing in the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala
and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by
him/her complies with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the completed application form.
7.2 Examination Fees.– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination fees.
However, for subsequent sittings, officers should pay Rs. 115 for the whole examinaiton or for more than one subject and
further they are required to pay Rs. 75 if they sit for only one subject. The examination fee should be credited to Account
No. 02323276 operated in the name of Director, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration at Bank of Ceylon,
Independence Square Branch and the receipt obtained should be affixed to the application. Under no circumstances, the
fee will be refunded nor transferred in respect of any other examination.
08.  Director, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all
candidates whose applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate
has fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates will not be allowed to sit the examination without such admission cards.
09. A notification will be published in newspapers by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration as soon as the
admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should
be taken to notify the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration in the manner specified in the advertisement. You may take action
to obtain the admission card by sending a letter along with a certified photocopy of the application form and receipt of registration. In case
of applicants outside Colombo, letter should contain a fax number to which the admission card should be sent. Further, inquiries made at later
occasions by the candidates who fail to forward above documents will not be entertained.
10. Head of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who are issued admissions by the Director of Sri Lanka Institute
of  Development Administration enabling them to sit the examination. Travelling allowances will not be paid.
11. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
12. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. If it is found that a candidate has appeared for the examination
in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant will be cancelled.
13. Scheme of Examination.– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows :–
13.1 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Appendix "C" of Sri Lanka Administrative
Service Minute published in the Gazette No. 1419/03 dated 14.11.2005).

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
373
The subjects of this examination are given below. :
Serial Subjects Duration S ubject
Number Number
01 Constitutional Law and Administrative Law 03 hours 01
02 The Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 03 hours 02
03 Criminal Law and Evidence Law 03 hours 03
04 Administration 03 hours 04
05 Economic 03 hours 05
06 Sociology 03 hours 06
07 English 03 hours 07
13.1.1 Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01)
The question paper based on the following :–
(i) The structure of the Constitution of Sri Lanka with historical development and the Second Republic
Constitution.
(ii) The Executive, President of the Republic, Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister, Central Government
Departments and the Public Service.
(iii) Administration of Justice.
(iv) Judicial control over Administration.
(v) Directive Principles of the State Policy and Fundamental Duties.
(vi) Delegated Legislation.
(vii) Liability of the State and the Public Authorities.
(viii) Fundamental Rights.
13.1.2 The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 02)
The question paper based on the following :–
(i) The Legal History of Sri Lanka.
(ii) The Organization of the Courts.
(iii) The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 6).
(iv) The Administration of Justice Act, No. 44 of 1971.
13.1.3 Criminal Law and Evidence Law (Subject No. 03)
The question paper based on the following :–
(i) The Penal Code
(ii) The Evidence Ordinance.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain 35% of marks for each of the subjects mentioned under 13.1.1.,
13.1.2. and 13.1.3. above and an average of 40% of the total marks allocated for the 03 subjects.
13.1.4 Administration (Subject No. 04)
The question paper based on the following :–
(i) Office and Field Organization and Methods.
(ii) Procedaral rules published by the Public Service Commission, in the Gazette Extra Ordinary  at the
Government dated 20.02.2009 and following Chapters at the Establishment Code (Chapters VI, VII, IX,
XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII).
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.1.5. Economics (Subject No. 05)/Sociology (Subject No. 06)
Candidates are required to sit only for one subject out of Economic and Sociology.
13.1.5.1 Economics (Subject No. 05) - The paper based on the following :–
(i) Principles of Economics with special reference to the theories of value, production and distribution.
(ii) Money, Financial Activity and Theory of Money.
(iii) The Economic Structure of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
374
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.1.5.2. Sociology (Subject No. 06) - A question paper based on the following (with special reference to Sri
Lanka) :
(i) Social Structure, Organization and Functions ;
(ii) Human Relationships and Groupings ;
(iii) Kinship, Marriage and the Family ;
(iv) Rural and Urban Society ;
(v) Social Stratification and Differentiations ;
(vi) Social Control ;
(vii) Culture, Religion, Morals and Values.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.1.6. English (Subject No. 07) - The syllabus for this subject will be as follows :
(i) Listening and speaking skills :
The candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following Language functions :
* General greetings and Introductions
* Giving and getting information
* Advising, suggesting and expressing opinions
* Describing events and situations
* Telephone skills
* Interviewing skills
* Meeting
* Listening and Note taking skills.
(ii) English Grammar :
A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammar in the Spoken and the Written Language is
expected from the candidate.
* Tense and Number
* Sentences (Simple/Compound/Complex/Compound Complex)
* Relative Clauses
* Reported Speech
* Adjectives and Adverbs
* Determiners
* Prepositions.
(iii) Writing Skills :
The knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study :
* Internal modes of Communication
* Formal correspondence skills
* Writing Descriptions/Explanations
* Summary writing skills
* Report Writing skills
* Meeting Minutes/Agendas/Invitations
* Comprehension.
(iv) Reading Skills :
Candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal, written interpretation is expected :
* Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text.
* Reading and Interpretation (verbal/written).
* Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
375
13.2 The Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of SLAS (Appendix "D" of  SLAS minute published in Gazette
No. 1419/03 dated 14.11.2005)
The Second Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the following subjects :
Serial Subjects Duration S ubject
Number Number
01 Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) 03 hours 08
02 The Process of Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka) 03 hours 09
03 Management and organization 03 hours 10
04 Public Sector Financial Management 03 hours 11
13.2.1 Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) : (Subject No. 08)
A paper based on the factors which influence the formulation of economic and social policy in Sri Lanka. The
application of the principles of Economics and Sociology in recent economical, social and political history of Sri
Lanka.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.2.2 The process of Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka) : (Subject No. 09)
A paper based on the Institution of Development Administration, their working and their inter-relationships with
special reference to :
(i) The Machinery of Government of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) The constitutional background of the machinery of Government in Sri Lanka ;
(iii) Provincial Councils and Local Government ;
(iv) People's Organizations ;
(v) Public Corporations.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.2.3 Management and Organization (Subject No. 10) :
A paper based on the following :
(i) The principles of management and organization ;
(ii) The application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector ;
(iii) Modern tools and techniques of management.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.2.4 Public Sector Financial Management (Subject No. 11)
A question paper based on the following :
(i) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka
Constitutional Provisions relating to Public Financial Management
Parliamentary Control over Public Finance
Meaning of Fund
Consolidated Fund and its operation
Meaning and methods of appropriation
Contingencies Fund
Other funds and their operation
Government Revenue
Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance
Powers and Functions of the Treasury
Warrants and Imprest Authority
Auditor General, his powers and functions
Committee on Public Expenditure
Committee on Public Enterprises

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
376
(ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers and their
Powers and Function.
(iii) Internal Audit.
(iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management
Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
Identification of Government Policies, Goals, Targets and the Work Development programmes
Planning and appraisal of development projects and programmes and prioritization of them
Formulation and finalization of annual estimates of revenue and expenditure.
(v) Variations of approved estimates of expenditure
Application of virement procedure
Management of Public Sector Cadres and Salaries
Total Cost estimates and revisions
Supplementary Estimates
(vi) Losses and waivers of Government Properties
(vii) Miscellaneous Accounting Matters
(viii) Delegation of Functions for Financial Control
(ix) Custody of Public Money and Bank Accounts Procedure
(x) Government Procurement Procedure
Procurement of goods, services and works
Composition, Appointment, Power and Functions of Tender
Boards and Technical Evaluation Committees
Tender Evaluation Procedure
Management of Donor Funded Projects.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.3 First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka
Architects’ Service.
Subjects of these examinations are as follow :
Subject Duration Subject Number
Financial Systems 03 hours 12
Administration 03 hours 04
13.3.1 Financial Systems (Subject No. 12)
A question paper consisting of questions based on following facts :–
(i) Financial Regulations of Government of Sri Lanka - V olume I (Except Chapter X)
(ii) Estimates of the current year. Eg.– Preparations of estimates, votes, financial systems and appropriation acts.
Note.– Candidates are required to secure at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13.3.2 Administration (Subject No. 04)
Syllabus for this subject is indicated in Para. 13.1.4
13.4 Second Language Test (for all relevant services) :
The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Sinhala Medium shall be Tamil
Language. The Second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Tamil Medium shall be
Sinhala Language. In the meantime, an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in English Language is required to
pass in Sinhala and Tamil Language Tests.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
377
Subjects of these examinations are as follows :
Subject Duration Subject Number
Second Language Test - Sinhala (Written) 02 hours 13
Second Language Test - Tamil (Written) 02 hours 14
Second Language Test - English (Written) 02 hours 15
Subject Subject Number
Second Language Test - Sinhala (Oral) 16
Second Language Test - Tamil (Oral) 17
Second Language Test - English (Oral) 18
Note.– Only the candidates who pass the written examination of the Second Language Proficiency Test shall be called for the
Oral test.
14.  This examination will be held in Colombo during the period from 28th April, 2012 to 26th May, 2012. The time table of the
examination is as follows :
Serial Name of the Examination Subject Su bject Date Time
No. No.
01 1st Efficiency Bar Examination Constitutional Law and Administrative 01 28.04.2012 9.00-12.00
for Officers in Sri Lanka Law
Administrative Service Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 02 28.04.2012 12.30 - 3.30
Criminal Law and Evidence Law 03 29.04.2012 9.00 - 12.00
Administration 04 29.04.2012 12.30 - 3.30
Economics 05 12.05.2012 9.00 - 12.00
Sociology 06 12.05.2012 9.00 - 12.00
English 07 13.05.2012 12.30 - 3.30
02 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination Economic and Social Policy 08 13.05.2012 9.00 - 12.00
for Officers in Sri Lanka The process of Development 09 13.05.2012 12.30 - 3.30
Administrative Service Administration
Management and Organization 10 19.05.2012 9.00 - 12.00
Public Sector Financial Management 11 19.05.2012 12.30 - 3.30
03 1st Efficiency Bar Examination Financial Systems 12 20.05.2012 9.00 - 12.00
for Officers in Sri Lanka Administration 04 29.04.2012 12.30 - 3.30
Engineering Service
04 1st Efficiency Bar Examination Financial Systems 12 20.05.2012 9.00 - 12.00
for Officers in Sri Lanka Administration 04 29.04.2012 12.30 - 3.30
Scientific Service
05 1st Efficiency Bar Examination Financial Systems 12 20.05.2012 9.00 - 12.00
for Officers in Sri Lanka Administration 04 29.04.2012 12.30 - 3.30
Architects’ Service
06 Second Language Test (for Sinhala (written) 13 26.05.2012 2.00 - 4.00
all relevant services) Tamil (written) 14 26.05.2012 9.00 - 11.00
English (written) 15 26.05.2012 11.30 - 1.30

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
378
15. Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations will be made in the following
manner :–
Examination Subjec t Qualifications required to be exempted
1st Efficiency Bar Examination Constitutional Law and Administrative Should be a Barrister, Advocate in a Supreme
for Officers in Sri Lanka Law Court, Graduate in Law from a University
Administrative Service Legal Systems of Sri Lanka
Criminal Law and Evidence Law
Economics/Sociology Should be a holder of a Special Degree in
Economics or Sociology
16. Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
17th of February, 2012.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION AND SECOND LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY TEST FOR OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA
ADMINISTRA TIVE SERVICE, SRI LANKA ENGINEERING SERVICE, SRI LANKA SCIENTIFIC SERVICE AND
SRI LANKA ARCHITECTS’ SERVICE – 2012(I)
Medium of Examination  :
Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage) (It will not be allowed to change the language medium subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In block capitals) Eg. : SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in full (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full  :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent (In block capitals) :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1  Male - 0 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 National Identity Card No. :
4.0 4.1 The service to which the officer belongs :–––––––––––.
4.2 Date of appointment to the service :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
379
5.0 5.1 Post :–––––––––––.
5.2 Department :–––––––––––.
6.0 The examinations and the subjects applied by the officer (If you apply for more than one examination, indicate the details s eparately
in following manner) :
6.1 Name of the Examination :–––––––––––.            Code :–––––––––––.
(See Para. 3 of Examination Notification)
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
6.2 Name of the Examination :–––––––––––.            Code :–––––––––––.
(See Para. 3 of Examination Notification)
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
6.3 Name of the Examination :–––––––––––.            Code :–––––––––––.
(See Para. 3 of Examination Notification)
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
7.0 Whether you have appeared for this examination as a whole or part thereof. If so, indicate following particulars :
Name of the Examination S ubject Year Month
8.0 8.1 Are you appearing for the examination for the first time ? :–––––––––––.
8.2 If not, indicate following particulars regarding the examination fees :
Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
Date of payment :–––––––––––.
Branch of Bank of Ceylon :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
380
STA TEMENT OF THE CANDIDA TE
I declare that the above particulars are correct and I am eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. I also certify that the receipt issued on payment of examination fee is affixed herewith. Further I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations of the examination imposed by Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
–––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––. Signature of candidate.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that, Mr./Mrs./Miss. .......................... whose particulars are mentioned above, is eligible to sit for the examination in the
language medium indicated above. I hereby certify the signature of the candidate.
––––––––––––,
Signature and Post of Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
03–254

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
381
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2012
382
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2012
MARCH 02.03.2012 Friday — 17.02.2012 Friday 12 noon
09.03.2012 Friday –– 24.02.2012 Friday 12 noon
16.03.2012 Friday –– 02.03.2012 Friday 12 noon
23.03.2012 Friday –– 09.03.2012 Friday 12 noon
30.03.2012 Friday –– 16.03.2012 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 05.04.2012 Thursday — 23.03.2012 Friday 12 noon
11.04.2012 Wednesday –– 30.03.2012 Friday 12 noon
20.04.2012 Friday –– 05.04.2012 Thursday 12 noon
27.04.2012 Friday –– 11.04.2012 Wednesday 12 noon
MAY 04.05.2012 Friday — 20.04.2012 Friday 12 noon
11.05.2012 Friday –– 27.04.2012 Friday 12 noon
18.05.2012 Friday –– 04.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
25.05.2012 Friday –– 11.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.