

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2315$17 - 2023 ckjdß ui 18 jeks nodod - 2023'01'18
No. 2315/17 -  wedNesday,   jaNuary  18,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 38613 - 07 (01/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
DEPARTmENT  Of  GOvERNmENT  INfORmATION
Issuance of Official Media Accreditations for the Year 2023
It is a responsibility of the Government to ensure a free and unhindered environment for media personnel and media 
institutions to enable them to perform their duty without restrictions. In compliance with this policy, the department of 
Government Information committed in creating a better and quality media culture in sri Lanka, henceforth would issue Media 
accreditations to journalists with the intention of assisting them to engage in their career while enriching the standards of 
the profession and protecting the dignity of the trade.    
 
   Persons who gather news and information, edit and disseminate them over electronic, print or web media to all kinds 
of receivers are considered as journalists for the purpose of issuing media accreditations. Media accreditations are issued 
only to such professional media personnel who are active in the trade.
 
   Heads of all Print and electronic Media Institutions as well as sectional Heads of News and Current affairs are 
requested to recommend only the Professional journalists under their supervision for Media accreditation.
 
      Heads of Media Institutions / Chief Editors / News Directors / Chief Sub Editors or the authorized officers of the 
Institutions who certify the list of journalists applying for Media accreditation would be held responsible for the content of 
the lists and their endorsement.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'18
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.01.2023
2a
    Media accreditations will be issued under following criteria for the year  2023, and the attention of relevant parties is 
drawn to the requirement of following documents and criteria which are essential for the issuance of Media accreditations.:
 
1.      journalist,
2.      Provincial journalist,
3.      Freelance journalist,
4.      Foreign journalist (t emporary),
5.      Media administrator,
6.      t echnician,
7.      State Media Officer,
8.      Media service.
01. Basic criteria and required documents
 
i.  the Media accreditation will be issued for the year 2023 and will be valid until december 31, 2023.
ii.   applicants should have a service record of more than six months in a recognized Media Institution on a permanent 
or contract basis. (t rainees are not issued with Media accreditations).
iii.  a  list of journalists who are eligible to apply for Media accreditations should be prepared on the institute Letter 
Head according to the following specimen together with a request letter by the Head of the Media Institution 
/ director General / CeO / General Manager / Chief editor / News director or Chief sub editor. the name, 
designation, signature and the official seal of the certifying officer should be included in the aforesaid letter 
addressed to the director-General of the department of Government Information.
serial No. Name NIC No. designation service unit
01.     
02.     
  
iv.   The officer certifying the letter of request for Media Accreditations should place his or her signature and the 
official seal on each page of the list of applicants.
v.   Official identity card of each applicant should be furnished with a photocopy of the same endorsed as a true copy 
by the officer who certified the list of applicants. The signature and official seal of the certifying officer should 
be placed therein. (After comparing with the photocopy, the office ID will be returned at the time of acceptance 
of the application.)
vi.   When an applicant does not hold an official identity card, a photocopy of his / her letter of appointment should 
be submitted with an endorsement by the officer who certified the list of names of applicants. His / her name, 
designation, signature and official seal should be placed there on.
vii.   applications for Media accreditations the year 2022 could be downloaded from Government Information 
Department’s official website  www.dgi.gov.lk or Government’s Official News portal www.news.lk.
viii.   In addition to the endorsement of the entire list of names, it is compulsory that each application should be certified 
by the Director-General / Chief Executive Officer / General Manager / Chief Editor / News Editor / News Director 
/ News Manager or Chief Sub Editor by placing his or her signature and the official seal there on.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'18
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.01.2023
3a
ix.  t wo clear colour photographs, 1"x1.5" (2.6cm x 3.7cm) in size, taken within the last six months should be submitted. 
One of them should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application. Unclear photographs and photographs of 
not the prescribed size will be rejected.
x.  when issuing Media accreditations to journalists who are attached to websites; special attention will be drawn 
to the following conditions: 
•	 Media accreditations will be issued only to the media personnel attached to websites that disseminate 
news and report on current affairs,
•	 the objectives of the website and the number of subscribers, whether they are daily updated and fully 
operative etc. will be taken into consideration before issuing Media accreditations to web journalists.
•	 the relevant website should have registration with the Ministry in charge of Mass Media for the year 2022, 
and a copy of the registration endorsed by a staff officer in charge of the subject in the Ministry of Mass 
Media should be submitted along with the w eb journalists’ applications. However, the registration issued 
by the Ministry in charge of Mass Media is not the only sufficient condition to claim Media Accreditation.
each News and Current affairs w ebsite that applies for Media accreditations should produce business 
registration documents and a copy of the same endorsed by a staff officer of the particular business institution, 
with his / her name, signature and official seal placed there on.
•	 when it is felt that further references are necessary before issuing Media accreditations to web journalists, 
the decision whether to issue Media accreditations to such web journalists will be taken only after obtaining 
reports from the relevant parties with regard to such applications.
•	 Only the web sites that are being updated continuously on a daily basis for a minimum period of six months 
are eligible to apply for Media accreditations. a minimum of 35% of the content of such websites should 
specifically be news and current affairs.
•	 a maximum of two Media accreditations per each language will be issued for websites.
•	 Only the journalists attached to w eb Media entities will be issued Media accreditations, and accreditations 
will not be issued to the other cadres of the organization such as Chairman / administrator / Governor and 
director.
•	 Media accreditations will be issued only to the websites that are directly engaged in dissemination of news. 
Media accreditations will not be issued to institutional websites.  
xi.    special attention will be paid to the following factors when issuing Media accreditations for foreign Media 
Institutions.
•	 Media accreditations will be issued to residential representatives / staff reporters who have been assigned 
by internationally recognized Media Institutions to serve permanently in sri Lanka,
•	 Media accreditations will be issued to such journalists only after the information furnished by them are 
verified from the relevant foreign media institution,
•	 It is compulsory for the applicant to submit his or her service letter issued by the head of his or her foreign 
media employer,
•	 a photocopy of his or her Passport / National Identity Card should be submitted,
•	 If the need arises that further references are necessary, before issuing Media accreditations to any journalist, 
the decision to issue Media accreditation to such journalists will be made only after obtaining reports from 
the relevant parties with regard to such applications.  
xii. the validity of Media accreditations issued in 2023 will expire on december 31, 2023.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'18
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.01.2023
4a
02.  Categories of Media Accreditations - Basic criteria and documents required
i. Journalist
 staff journalists attached to Media Institutions in the Print, electronic and w eb Media sectors will be issued with 
Media Accreditations under the category - Journalist. The applicants should fulfil the requirements from No-i 
to No-x under serial No.01. staff journalists attached to Newspapers, tabloid Magazines, radio, television, 
w ebsites and foreign media institutions come under this category.
ii.  Provincial Journalist
 a  district wise list of provincial journalists together with the following information should be submitted to the 
director-General of the department of Government Information by the relevant Media Institution:
(a) Name of the provincial journalist,
(b)  National Identity Card No.,
(c)  Permanent address,
(d)  the area and the district covered by the correspondent,
(e)  t elephone No. / Nos. of the correspondent.
•	 The list of provincial journalists should be certified by the Head of the Media Institution / Director General 
/ CeO / General Manager / News director / Chief News editor / Provincial News editor or Chief editor. 
The name, designation, signature and the official seal of the certifying officer should be placed on the list 
and be addressed to the director General of the department of Government Information. the signature of 
the certifying officer should be placed on each page of the list together with his or her official seal.
•	 the original list of names should be forwarded to the director General of the department of Government 
Information, and its soft copy should be emailed to media.accre@gmail.com .
•	 two colour photographs, sized 1"x1.5" (2.6cm x 3.7cm) taken within the last six months should be submitted 
along with the application. One of them should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application. Unclear 
photographs or photographs of not the prescribed size will be rejected.
•	 a clear photocopy of the National Identity Card / Valid Passport / Valid driving License should be submitted 
along with the application. Incomplete applications will be rejected.
•	 Heads of Media Institutions, director / Chief editor / News director / Provincial News editor are requested 
to submit only the names of the reporters who are currently active in the trade.
•	 applications could be downloaded from www.dgi.gov.lk or www. news.lk  and the duly filled applications 
could either be sent by registered post to the director-General, department of Government Information, 
No.163, Kirulapone road, Colombo 5 or handed over to the above address.
•	 w rite on the top left-hand corner of the envelope ‘Provincial Media accreditation’.
iii. Freelance Journalist
•	 the applicant should have a minimum period of one-year continuous service as a Freelance journalist in a 
nationally recognized electronic or print media institution, and have possessed the following testimonials.
•	 No less than 12 photocopies or Cds containing news reports / current affairs articles or programmes, 
features / entertainment programmes / photographs published under the applicant’s by-name within the 
last six months from the date of submission of the application, should be produced.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'18
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.01.2023
5a
•	 along with the application submitted by freelance journalists, a letter from at least one of the media 
institutions he or she provides news, feature articles and current affairs programmes should be forwarded on 
letterhead of the relevant institution to the director General of the department of Government Information. 
It should also include the name, signature and official seal of the head of the institution / News Director 
or Chief editor. 
iv.    Foreign Journalist (Temporary)
•	 temporary Media accreditations will be issued to foreign journalists who arrive in sri Lanka to cover special 
events to compile articles and to do documentary programmes that are of news and current affairs value.
•	 the applicant should submit the service letter issued by the Head of his / her Foreign Media Institution.
•	 the documents required to be submitted along with the application are:
i.  the approval letter issued by the Ministry of Foreign affairs.
ii.  His or her valid Passport.
iii.  t wo colour photographs, in the size of 1"x1.5" (2.6cm x 3.7cm) taken within the last six months. 
One of them should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application.
•	 the Photograph of the Passport will not be accepted for this purpose.
 
v.      media Administrator
•	 Maximum three Media Accreditations will be issued to officers who are directly involved in media 
administration of a nationally recognized media organization.
•	 Media Accreditations will not be issued to Marketing Development Directors / Managers / Welfare officers 
and others who are engaged in sales promotion sectors of Media Institutions.
 
vi.  Technical
•	 Media accreditation under the category ‘t echnical’ will be issued to electronic media technicians who are 
directly engaged in field media activities.
•	 all the conditions given under aforesaid No.01 should be met by those who apply for Media accreditations 
under the category ‘t echnical’.
 
vii.   Media Official
•	 Accreditations under the category ‘Media Official’ will be issued to Media Secretaries / Media Directors 
/ News Directors / Information Officers / Media Officers / Photographers / Video Cameramen and Media 
assistants as they have been directly recruited to such positions by statutory Boards including Government 
Ministries and departments.
•	 a letter requesting Media accreditations for the aforesaid employees who are engaged in media activities in 
their ministries or institutions coming under the purview of the respective ministries should be addressed to 
the director General, department of Government Information by the Ministry secretary or the additional 
Secretary. The Ministry Secretary / Additional Secretary who certifies the relevant list of names and 
designations carries the full responsibility for the authenticity of information provided there in. 
•	 the letter of request should carry a reference Number of the particular Government establishment and 
requests without such ref. Nos. will be rejected.
•	 Media accreditations will only be issued to employees who hold above positions in state Media units, 
and not to others those who are attached to Media units of state Institutions.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'18
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.01.2023
6a
•	 when Media accreditations are applied for personnel of Media units of semi-Governmental institutions 
or statutory Boards coming under the purview of Government Ministries, such applications and the list 
of names should be endorsed by the director-General / General Manager of the relevant Institution giving 
his / her name, designation and placing his / her official seal there on 
 
viii media Services
•	 Media accreditations under the category ‘Media services’ will be issued to those who are involved in 
media activities that are directly connected with outdoor media coverage for News and Current affairs 
units of Media Institutions.
•	 the applicants for Media accreditations under this category should also meet all the conditions given 
under the aforesaid No.01.
 
General Conditions
01.   applications for Media accreditations for the year 2023 will be accepted until March 31, 2023.  applications 
received after the deadline and the incomplete applications will be rejected.
02.   a  maximum of three, two and one Media accreditations will be issued for monthly, bimonthly and quarterly 
publications, respectively.
03.   Media accreditations will not be issued for annual or biannual publications / magazines.
04.  Copies of the relevant magazine / publication published during the last six months and documents of registration 
with the department of National archives should be submitted to prove the continuity of publication. 
05.   The certificate of registration issued by the Sri Lanka Press Council should be submitted in respect of each 
magazine / publication.
06.   the supplements issued with newspapers will not be considered as separate newspapers. when applications are 
made in respect of such supplements, Media accreditations will be issued only in the name of the main newspaper.
07.   It is the responsibility of the Head of the Media Institution to recall the Media accreditation issued to a journalist 
when he / she resigns from the respective Media Institution or his / her service is terminated and hand it over to 
the director-General of the department of Government Information.   w ithout returning the same no new Media 
accreditation will be issued to his / her replacement.  a journalist   who is   dismissed or resigned from the service 
of a media organization applies for Media accreditation through a different Media Institution without returning 
his / her previous Media accreditation to the director-General of the department of Government Information, a 
new one will not be issued under his or her name.
08.  a  new Media accreditation will not be re-issued in the respective year in lieu of a lost media Media accreditation.
09.  No new Media accreditations will be issued for the year 2023 for journalists who have been issued Media 
accreditations for the three years 2022/2023/2024.
 
10.  Media accreditations should be used only for media activities. If it is abused or used ignoring media ethics, the 
director-General of Government Information has powers to recall or cancel such Media accreditations.
11.   Media accreditations are issued annually. Intermittent requests by Media Institutions will not be considered, and 
will be rejected.
12.    Honorifics or titles and academic qualifications will not be mentioned in the Media Accreditation. Only the name 
of the journalist and relevant information will be mentioned.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'18
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.01.2023
7a
13.   t o consider granting Media accreditations to Cable television Institutions, such television Channels should 
have a record of broadcasting a minimum of five news and current affairs programs per week. A maximum of 
10 Media Accreditations will be issued only for the News Division of each Cable Network that fulfills the said 
condition. Certified copies of the license issued to the Registered Cable Television Channels by the Sri Lanka 
telecommunication regulatory Commission and the Ministry of Mass Media should be submitted along with 
the application.
14.   The authority in making the final decision with regard to the issuance of Media Accreditations and effecting 
changes as required to the above terms and conditions and provisions is vested in the director-General of the 
department of Government Information.
15.  Media accreditations will not be issued:
I. to artistes engaged in performing art sectors such as cinema, theater and teledrama;
II. to personnel attached to firms engaged in publicity work, advertising and video production;
III. under pseudonyms that journalists use in reporting news and current affairs / writing features / doing 
programmes;
IV . to media entities that do not report news and current affairs;
V.  for hand books on different subjects or publications that do not contain news or current affairs;
VI. for positions such as management assistant / coordinator that have no direct connection to mass media;
VII. for official websites of government institutions such as cabinet / state ministries, Departments and other 
government bodies.  
16.    If complaints are received about abusing the Media accreditation by any print, electronic and web media journalist 
in pursuing personal interests the director-General of Government Information has absolute authority to investigate 
such malpractices and cancel the Media accreditations of the journalist concerned if he / she is found guilty of 
violating the department’s terms and regulations.       
 
D inith  Chinthaka  k arunarathne ,
 director General,
 department of Government Information.
eOG 01 - 0183
PrinteD at the DeP artMent  OF GOVernMent  PrintinG,  Sri Lanka.