

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A- G  33585 - 52  (01/2021)
My No. : id.s$j;=$07 /2020.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered  into  between  The
Employers Federation of Ceylon,  No. 385 J3,  Old  Kotte
Road,  Rajagiriya  of the  one part and the Ceylon Estate
Staffs Union, No.6,  Aloe Avenue,  Colombo 03 of  the other
part on 6th  November  2019  is hereby published  in terms of
Section 06  of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the
Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition  1956).
B. K. P
RABATH CHANDRAKEERTHI,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
November  2020.
Collective Agreement No.  33 of  2020
Collective Agreement - Maintenance & Support Staff
This Collective Agreement made and entered into between
the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, No. 385 J3, Old Kotte
Road, Rajagiriya, of the First Part and the Ceylon  Estate
Staffs’  Union of  No.6, Aloe Avenue,  Colombo  3, of the
Second Part, on this 6th day of November, Two Thousand
Nineteen witnesseth  as   follows:-
1. Title
This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations
Maintenance & Support Staff Collective Agreement.
2. Employers covered and bound
This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employers’
Federation of Ceylon, whose names are contained in
w;s úfYI
wxl 2212$13 - 2021 ckjdß ui 26 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2021'01'26
No. 2212/13 -  TUESDAY    JANUARY   26,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
Schedule I hereto and hereinafter referred to as the
Employers  or  Employer,  as the case may be, according
to context for and in respect of the categories of
employees hereinafter described in Clause 3 hereof.
3. Unions and Employees covered and bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade
Union, hereinafter referred to as the Union, and members
of the said Union who are employed by the members of
the Federation referred to in Schedule I on monthly
contracts  of employment  and in respect of whom  salary
ranges are prescribed in  Schedule II hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements
The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and
replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these
categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation
to all terms and conditions. In the event  of there being
any dispute with regard to the existence of any other
term or condition not contained herein,  the same shall
be resolved by reference to the ‘disputes committee’
and thereafter to the Commissioner General of Labour
in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act if the matter is
not resolved before the ‘disputes committee’, but the
party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take
trade union action on the basis of the existence  of any
such alleged term or   condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration
Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement
shall be effective from 1st October 2019 and shall
thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either
party by giving notice of termination in terms of the
Industrial Disputes Act, subject to the condition that
no party shall give such notice to the   other  before 30th
September 2022.
6. General Terms and Conditions
(i) The revised terms and conditions relating to this
Agreement shall only come into force on the 1st
October 2019 and shall be deemed to be included
in all contracts of  employment  of  those covered
by this Agreement  with effect from the said   date.
(ii) All employees covered by this Agreement on
completion of 15 years of service under the same
employer shall be granted an additional Rs100/-
annual increment.
(iii)Any employee enjoying better terms and
conditions than what is stipulated in this
Agreement shall continue to enjoy same.
(iv) Grading of employees shall be at the discretion of
the Employer.
7. First Appointment
(i) No person will be recruited to a grade covered by
this Agreement unless he/she has required
knowledge and experience in the trade.
(ii) All designations of new recruits should be as
specified in Schedule II hereof.
8. Probation
On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of
probation of not more than six months, subject to the
right of the Employer to extend the probationary period
for a further period of three months at his discretion for
reasons of unsatisfactory performance, misconduct or
other  justifiable  cause. Confirmation shall be by letter.
However, in the event of the probationary period not
being  extended after the period of six months, the
employee shall be deemed to be confirmed,
notwithstanding there being no letter of confirmation.
During the period of probation  or extended  probation,
the  Employer shall have the right to terminate his/her
services without notice or assigning reasons therefor.
9. Attendance at work
Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the
Employer an employee shall present himself for work on
every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual
starting time and at the usual working place and shall
thereafter remain available for work throughout the
normal working hours.
10. Salaries
(1) The salaries payable to the employees covered and
bound by this agreement with effect from 1st October
2019 shall be as follows:
(i) With effect from 1st October 2019, the salaries of
all employees in employment shall be increased
by 25% based on last drawn salary.
(ii) Employees who reach the maximum salary point
depicted in the scale will continue to receive

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
annual increments if they continue to remain within
the same category.
(iii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary
ranges applicable will accordingly be revised as
per Schedule II of this Agreement.
(iv) Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 ( i )
above, the Regional Plantations Companies
covered and bound will to pay the revised salaries
in the month of October 2019.
(2) (i) With effect from date hereof, employees covered
by this Agreement, who are entitled to a payment
in lieu of staff quarters being provided to them,
shall receive a payment of Rs1,350/- per month.
(ii) In the event of any person not occupying quarters
provided by the employer such  person shall be
liable to disciplinary action.
11. Annual Increments
(i) Annual increments shall be granted automatically on
completion of a year’s service. The increments will be
awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on
each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform
date to all employees, in the event of an employee being
confirmed in service within six months of the date on
which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled
to any increment and will become eligible only from the
following year.
(ii) An  increment  may  be suspended,  stopped or deferred
by way  of  punishment or for general inefficiency, after
the employee has been notified in writing of such fact.
In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be
continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the
period relevant to the stoppage.
(iii) Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below
to all employees    in employment as on1st October
2019.
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22
Lorry/Tractor Driver
Electrician/ Mechanic/
Motor Mechanic Rs. 600/- Rs. 600/- Rs. 675/-
Blacksmith/Carpenter
Engine Driver/Welder
Backhoe Operator/
Electrical Foreman
All employees on
completion of 15
years' service Rs. 700/- Rs. 700/- Rs. 775/-
12. Hours of Work and Overtime
(i) The decisions of the relevant Wages Board shall
apply.
(ii) If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work
reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the
Employer. Rates of overtime shall be according to the
decisions of the relevant Wages Board.
13. Weekly and Poya Holidays
An employee will be entitled to weekly holidays and
half-holidays as per the relevant Wages Board decisions.
14. Holidays
(i) All employees covered by this Agreement will be
entitled to the following Eight (8) holidays:
Tamil Thai Pongal Day
National Day
Day Prior to Sinhala and Tamil New Year
Sinhala and Tamil New Year Day
May Day
Day Following Vesak Full Moon Poya Day
Holy Prophet’s Birthday (Milad-Un-Nabi)
Christmas Day
(ii) Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated
according to the decisions of the relevant wages boards.
15 Leave
1. Annual Leave - Employees presently enjoying 14 days
annual leave shall continue to do so. Others will receive
annual holidays in accordance with the relevant Wages
Board decisions applicable to them. . Annual leave not
utilized in any one year shall not be carried over to the
next year.
2. Casual Leave - All employees shall be entitled in each
year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with
full pay, not more than three (3) days being taken at a
time. Casual  leave not utilized in any one year will not
be carried over to the next year.
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
3. (i) Sick Leave - Leave on full pay shall be granted up
to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick
leave will be granted up to two days at a time
without the submission of a Medical Certificate.
For leave of three days and over, a Medical
Certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner
or a Government Hospital shall be considered
necessary, subject to the right of the Employer to
call for a Medical Certificate as aforementioned,
where he deems it appropriate.
(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself
of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward
his leave, which he could use in the event of
hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a
succeeding year, subject to the condition,
however, that he cannot avail himself of more than
90 days on that account.
(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently
permit him a higher quantum of sick leave, he shall
be permitted to continue to enjoy such concession
as personal to him.
16. Administrative Transfers
(i) Transfers not involving hardship in relation to
schooling of children or employment of a spouse,
will, subject to the exigencies of the service and
the requirements of the Employer, be made at the
discretion of the Management with one month’s
notice, in writing.
(ii) Transfers from one estate to another or from one
Division to another which are likely to cause
hardship on account of children’s schooling or
the spouse’s employment shall generally be made
at the end of the year with three (3) calendar
months’ notice, in writing on or before 30th
September.
(iii) Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE
OL/AL examination for the first time will not be
transferred in that particular year.
(iv) The transfers of Employees whose children are to
be admitted to Grade 1 in School also will be
considered on a case-by-case basis.
(v) No transfers shall be effected from one plantation
company to another managed by the same
management company, without the consent of the
employee.
(vi) No employee covered by this Agreement shall be
transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the
last year prior to his retirement.
(vii) The provisions of sub-clauses (i), (ii) (iii) and (iv)
above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary
grounds, but the Management shall give
reasonable notice, depending on the
circumstances of each case.
17. Age of Retirement
(i ) Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher
retiral age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years
and will be applicable to those who are in
employment as at the date of signing this
Agreement.
(ii) However, an Employer may retire an employee at
the age of 55 years,  subject  to unsatisfactory
work performance, conduct or state of health of
the employee. For this purpose “unsatisfactory
work performance” shall include any act of
misconduct in respect of which disciplinary action
has been taken.
(iii) An employer who decides to retire an employee
at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at  (ii)
above shall give such employee one year’s notice
in writing or pay one year’s salary in lieu of such
notice. Where such notice is not given and the
employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct
during such one year period, which misconduct
would have otherwise resulted in his retirement at
55 years, the employee shall be retired on reaching
55 years notwithstanding  the fact that notice has
not been given or payment made in lieu.
18. Gratuity
Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment
of Gratuity Act, No.12 of 1983.
19. Disciplinary Inquiries
(i) An employee may be suspended without pay by
his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge
which warrants dismissal or where, in the opinion
of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage
to property or disturbance of business needs to
be avoided. Where an employee is suspended

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
without pay, he shall be notified in a general
manner of the reasons for such suspension within
three days of the actual suspension.
(ii) An employee may also be suspended with pay,
pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry,
where the Management deems that such measure
is necessary.
(iii) An employee is entitled to be furnished with a
‘show-cause’ notice setting out the charges of
misconduct alleged against him and the employee
shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear
working days in which to give the answer or
explanation. Where necessary, the employee may
request further time and the Employer shall permit
a reasonable amount of time depending on the
nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total
of 14 working days, other than in exceptional
circumstances.
(iv) If the Employer is satisfied with the written
explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of
the charge or charges and where appropriate, he
shall be summoned to report  back for work.
Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the
Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within
a reasonable length of time and shall commence
such inquiry within 30 working days from the
date on which the explanation to the ‘show-cause’
letter is received, unless circumstances prevent
the Employer from doing so.
(v) An employee shall be permitted to have a Union
member to defend him at the inquiry. Such
representative shall not be a professional. If the
employee wishes to have the  benefit of such
representation, he shall inform the Superintendent
of the name of the  person defending him at least
48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence.
The Superintendent may object to the individual
selected, in which event the accused employee
may nominate another representative. The failure
of an employee to be defended by a
representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
(vi) The Employer shall endeavour to give the
findings and convey the punishment, if any,
within a period of 30 working days from the date
on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there
is justification for the delay. In no case shall the
findings be delayed beyond 90 working days from
the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and
except in the case of a pending criminal
investigation. If no findings are given within 90
working days and the above exception does not
apply, the accused employee shall be exonerated
of the charges.
(vii) Notwithstanding the above provisions, an
Employer may, where the circumstances so
warrant, terminate an employee summarily. In such
event, the letter of termination shall set out the
reasons for termination, including the justification
for summary termination. In such event, the
Union may appeal to the Employer or to the
appropriate forum.
20. Suspension pending Disciplinary Inquiries
(i) An employee may be suspended from work
without pay for a period not exceeding one month,
pending a disciplinary inquiry when there is prima
facie evidence, in the opinion  of the Employer, of
a charge or charges of misconduct against him.
Such suspension shall be in writing.
 (ii) Suspension of an employee on the ground referred
to in sub-clause (i) above for any period in excess
of one month shall be on half pay.
(iii) The provisions contained in sub-clauses (i) and
(ii) above shall not apply to the suspension of an
employee pending inquiries by the Police, by other
Public Authorities or Audit verifications.
21. Suspension as a measure of punishment
(i) Punishment for offences in the case of an employee
may include suspension, provided, however, that
such suspension shall not exceed fourteen (14)
days without pay and shall be in writing.
(ii) Punishment in excess of three days’suspension,
without pay, shall only be after a domestic
inquiry.
22. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment and
Disputes
(i) Parties hereto agree that during the continuance
in force of this Agreement, they will  not seek to
vary, alter or add to any of the terms and conditions
of employment, except  by mutual consent.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(ii) Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over
and above the normal entitlement, shall continue
to enjoy the same as personal, but this benefit
shall not extend to any other employee. The
above provision shall not apply to the
consumption of electricity, where  a limit is fixed
for all employees.
(iii) Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this
Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the
Commissioner-General of Labour under the
Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could
be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.
(iv) It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions,
collectively or independently, or their members
shall not resort to any form of Trade Union action
on any matter covered by this Agreement or is
connected therewith.
23. Disputes Resolution Committee
It is agreed by parties that the Disputes Resolution
Committee will meet once in three months to
resolve any dispute that may arise in relation to
any violation of the provisions of this Agreement.
However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting
will be held with two weeks’ notice, if requested
by either party.
Decisions arrived at the Dispute Resolution
Committee shall be implemented within a period
agreed between the parties.
24. Duty Leave
(i) Subject to the approval of their respective
Employers, the President and one other office
bearer of the Parent Union will be permitted such
duty leave as their Union duties require.
(ii) Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave
of the President and the nominated office bearer
of the Parent Union, as specified in sub clause (i)
above, the Federation will attempt to effect an
amicable settlement between parties.
(iii) By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the
Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed
twelve days duty leave in any one year.
(iv) By arrangement with their respective Employers,
two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed
twelve days duty leave which may be shared, on
condition that the total leave availed jointly by
these two Vice Presidents shall not exceed twelve
days in any one year.
(v) By arrangement with their respective Employers,
Branch Chairman and Sub-Branch Chairman of
the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave
which may be shared with the respective Branch
Secretaries, on condition that the total leave
availed jointly by these two office bearers shall
not exceed twelve days in any one year.
(vi) Duty leave shall be granted to one employee
selected from amongst all staff categories per
estate selected by the union to attend seminars
and workshops conducted by the union or any
other labour related institute on not more than
two occasion in a year for a period not exceeding
four (4) days. The Union shall inform the Employers
in writing the requirement of duty leave required
in terms of this clause.
PART   II
1. The Regional Plantations Companies covered and
bound by this Agreement morefully described in
Schedule I to this Agreement undertakes to discuss
with Union to resolve any issues relevant to employees
in the situation of amalgamation/sub-leasing of estates/
divisions/factories prior to such situations. However,
the regional plantation company will continue to be
the Employer.
2. Electricity
Free electricity would be granted to staff on the
following basis, irrespective of what they had been
enjoying in the past.
Elevation below 4,500 feet -  100 units
(Factory Elevation)
Elevation above 4,500 feet  - 130 units
(Factory Elevation)
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in
six months on the accumulated figure at the rate that
costs each estate.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
Kerosene  - The Employer shall provide 25 litres Kerosen
per mensem to those employees resident on
estates/divisions without electricity.
3. Tea Allowance
The Employer shall provide 1 1/2  kgs of tea free of
charge to members of estate staff (including future
recruits in those categories presently entitled)
irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
The staff members could purchase, in addition to the
above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of
the NSA or COP , whichever is lower.
Staff members who had been entitled to three or more
kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992,
would be entitled to purchase a maximum of 3 kg. at a
concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA, whichever
is lower with effect from 1st June 2003.
4. Death Grant
(i) With effect from the date hereof, on the death of
a staff member, the Dependants will be paid a
sum of Rs. 100,000/- as funeral expenses.
(ii) The Dependants of the deceased staff member
will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to three
months’ salary within one month upon the death
of the employee and the balance at the time the
Dependants hand over the staff quarters.
(iii) If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff
member, the Dependants will be paid the sum
equivalent to three months’ salary within one
month of the death of the staff member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme
(i) The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme
will be 5% and the Employers’ contribution shall be
10%.
(ii) A staff member who is a member of the staff medical aid
scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her
credit in the fund inclusive of the company’s
contribution to such  fund, at the time of retirement/
death or termination of his/her employment from the
estate.
 6. Union Subscription
(i) The Employer agrees, on the written request of an
employee, to deduct from the wages due to such
employee, the current monthly union subscription as
specified by the employee, to be payable monthly by
the employee to the union and remit the amount so
deducted to the union by the following month until
such time the employee maintains his request.
(ii) In the event  of the union being representative  of less
than 40% of the employees,  no remittance in respect of
check-off would be made thereafter.
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set
their hands at Colombo on this 6th day of November, Two
Thousand and Nineteen.
Bhathiya Bulumulla, Chathura Samarasinghe,
Chairman, President,
Plantation Services Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union.
Employers' Group.
WMKL Weerasinghe,
Director-General,
The Employers’ Federation
of Ceylon.
Witnesses :
1.                                                   1.
Binesh Pananwala, Nath Amarasinghe,
CEO, General Secretary,
Watawala Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union.
Plantations PLC.
2.                                                   2.
Sunil Poholiyadda, Robert Francis,
Managing Director, T reasurer,
Lankem Tea & Rubber, Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union.
Plantations (Pvt.) Ltd.
3.                                                   3.
Prasad de Silva, KHAS Wickramaratne,
Assistant Director General, Deputy President,
Head of Plantation Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union.
Services,
The Employers' Federation
of Ceylon.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
INTERPRETATION
Word Meaning
Union M eans the Union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer Means a Company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.
Week Means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.
Y ear Means a continuous  period of  12  months.
Gender A reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.
SCHEDULE  I
Agalawatte  Plantations PLC
Agarapatana Plantations Limited
Balangoda Plantations PLC
Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC
Elpitiya Plantations PLC
Elkaduwa  Plantations Limited
Hapugastenne Plantations PLC
Hatton  Plantations PLC
Horana Plantations PLC
Kahawatte  Plantations PLC
Kelani Valley Plantations PLC
Kotagala  Plantations PLC
Madulsima  Plantations PLC
Malwatte Valley Plantations PLC
Maturata Plantations Limited
Pussellawa Plantations Limited
Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC
Udapussellawa  Plantations PLC
Watawala Plantations PLC
SCHEDULE  II
Maintenance & Support Staff Salary Ranges
Previous Present Proposed                         Increment
Salary Salary Initial 2019/20 2021/22
with 25% Salary & 2020/21
Lorry/ Tractor Driver
Electrician/ Mechanic
Motor Mechanic
Blacksmith/ Carpenter Rs. 22,950 Rs. 28,688 Rs. 28,690 Rs. 600 Rs. 675
Engine Driver/Welder
Backhoe Operator
Electrical Foreman
All Employees on
Completion of 15 years' Rs. 22,800 Rs. 28,500 Rs. 28,500 Rs. 700 Rs. 775
Service placed on Grade I
02 - 96

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
My No: CI/1260
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT.  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Hatton National Bank PLC, No. 479, T.B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo  10  of
the  one  part  and  the Hatton National Bank PLC Officers Union, No. 24/16/A, Sri Sangabo Road, Kawdana, Dehiwala of the
other  part  on  12th  October  2018  is  hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131,
of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
B. K. P
RABATH CHANDRAKEERTHI,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, Colombo 05,
November,  2020.
Collective Agreement No. 35 of 2018
This Collective Agreement made this 12th October 2018 between Hatton National Bank PLC, a Bank duly registered in Sri
Lanka and having its registered office at 479, T.B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”)
of the One Part
And
The Hatton National Bank PLC  Officers’ Union (HNB Officers’ Union), a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having
its registered office at No.24/16A, Sri Sangabo Road, Kawdana, Dehiwela (hereinafter referred to as “the HNB Officers’
Union”).
Of the Other Part
Whereas the HNB Officers’ Union submitted proposals for a revision of salaries and other benefits in respect of their
members among the employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement  and  subsequent  to  negotiations
between the  Bank and the  HNB Officers’ Union, agreement has now been reached between the said two parties for the
purpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the HNB Officers’ Union and the
employees and maintaining an efficient and productive working environment, the matters so agreed upon are set out
hereunder.
1. Parties to be Covered and Bound
This Agreement  shall cover and bind Hatton National Bank  PLC (“the Bank”), the Hatton National Bank PLC Officers’
Union (“the HNB Officers’ Union”) and members of the HNB Officers’ Union employed by the Bank in the category of
Junior Executives (hereinafter referred to as the “employees”) for whom salary ranges have been prescribed in this
Agreement.
2. Date of Operation and Duration
This Agreement shall come into force on the 1st April 2018 and shall continue until either party  terminates it by written
notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act but no such notice shall be given before the 31st March 2021. The HNB
Officers’ Union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised Collective Agreement at any time
on or after 1st July 2020.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
3. Earlier Agreements
This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding on the parties hereto and such
earlier Agreements shall stand repudiated in respect of the parties hereto.
4. Matters Covered and Bound
(a) This agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well  as of all the matters raised
by the HNB Officers’ Union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the
conclusion of this Agreement and the HNB Officers’ Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force
of this Agreement raise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between   the parties preceding
this Agreement except to the extent agreed.
(b) It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this Agreement that in relation to present employees they shall
not during the continuance in force of this agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and
conditions of employment or benefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this agreement other
than by mutual agreement.
5. Consolidated Salary
(a) With effect from  1st April 2018, each employee covered and bound by this   Agreement shall be paid salaries in
accordance with the salary ranges prescribed hereunder.
Junior Executive Grade 1  - Rs.70,000 to Rs.110,000
Junior Executive Grade 2 - Rs.80,000  to Rs.160,000
Junior Executive Grade 3  - Rs.90,000 to Rs.210,000
(b) Annual increments will be based on performance in accordance with the performance  appraisal scheme of the Bank
subject to a minimum increment of a sum equal to 3% p.a. of an employee’s salary subject to the condition that those
who are rated as “Does not I meet expectation” will not receive any increment.
(c) The scale of rating under the performance      appraisal scheme to determine levels of performance of employees for the
grant of annual increments will be as given below.
Outstanding - 1 - 1.24 - Achievement above 121%
Exceed Expectation - 1.25 - 1.74 - Achievement between  106% to 120%
Meet Expectation - 1.75 - 2.49 - Achievement between  95% to 105%
Below Expectation  - 2.50 - 3.49 - Achievement  between 75% to 94%
Does not meet expectation - 3.50 - 4.99 - Achievement below 74%
The HNB Officers’ Union shall be engaged in deliberations in the event of any changes  to existing performance
appraisal scheme and thereafter the new scheme will be informed to the employees.
6. Conversion to Revised Salaries with effect from 1st April 2018
For the placement of an employee in the salary range as set out at clause (5) above with effect from 1st April 2018, the
following provisions shall apply.
(i) A sum equal to 16% of the basic salary payable to an employee as at March 2018 shall be added to the basic salary
paid to each employee in the month of April 2018.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
7. Incremental Date
The annual incremental date will be 1st  April.
8. Fuel Allowance
Employees will be entitled to receive a conveyance/fuel allowance in accordance with the amounts stated below.
Junior Executive Grade 1 - a sum equal to 65 litres of petrol per month
Junior Executive Grade 2 & 3 - a sum equal to 90 litres of petrol per month
9. Holiday Allowance
(a) The Bank shall pay a lump sum allowance in accordance with the amounts stated below.
Junior Executive Grade 1 & 2 - Rs.50,000/- p.a.
Junior Executive Grade 3 - Rs.55,000/- p.a.
(b) In the case of an employee promoted during the course of a year, the payment for a period of service  less than a
completed calendar year will be computed  proportionately at the rate of 1/12th of such entitlement in respect of each
completed month of service.
10. Special Payments
(a) Tea & Dinner Allowance
Parties agreed that employees covered & bound by this agreement shall not be entitled for overtime  payment.
However, Tea  & Dinner allowance will  be paid for work   outside normal working hours on a normal working day
as follows:
1/2  hour - Rs.200
I  hour - Rs.350
Up to 1 1/2 hours - Rs.500
Up to 2 hours - Rs.650
Up to 2  1/2 hours - Rs.675
Up to 3 hours - Rs.700
Up to 3 1/2  hours - Rs.725
4 hours & above would be at the rate of Rs. 400 for one full hour.
(b) Working on Holidays
Parties agreed that all statutory payment are included in the salary of an employee and in addition for work on a
holiday an employee will be paid a sum of Rs. 600 for each completed hour so worked. Further, sum of Rs. 2,000
per day which is granted through Human Resources Division Circular No.947/2008 dated 03rd April 2008 at
present will be extended to all employees who work on holidays provided they cover minimum of 5 1/2 hours  of
work.  However,  any  increase  to  the  amount  granted  through  the aforesaid  circular will be at the sole
discretion of the management.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(c) Disturbance Allowance
(i) Employees reporting for work prior to 7.00 a.m. will be paid a sum of Rs.   1,750 in respect of such day.
(ii) Employees  required  to  perform  work  in  relation  to  ATM  breakdowns during nonworking hours
including weekends and other holidays will also be entitled to a payment of Rs. 2,000  in respect of each
such instance.
(d) Pawning
Employees engaged in duties relating to the pawning of articles in the Bank will receive an allowance of Rs.225
per day subject to a maximum allowance of Rs. 4,000 per mensem.
11. Bonus
Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, an eligible employee in service as at the
date of payment covered by this agreement, a bonus as per  the following basis on the basic salary as drawn by such
employee for the month of December in respect of one complete  year  of service,  meaning January  to  December,     and
proportionately for service less than one year at the rate of one twelfth of such entitlement in respect of each complete
month of service.
Year Fixed Individual Performance
Bonus   .
Outstanding Exceed  Meet Below
Expectation  Expectation  Expectation
2018 2.5 months 1.5 months 1 month 0.5 month 0.35 month 0.5 month
2019 2.5 months 1.5 months 1 month 0.5 month 0.35 month 0.5 month
2020 3 months 1.5 months 0.75 month 0.25 month - 0.5  month
*** The bonus payable on Bank performance will accrue to eligible employees of the bank  in any  particular  year  only  if
the  bank achieves an  increase  in NPAT of the   corresponding  financial year by minimum of 15% as against previous
year.
12. Provident Fund
(a) Rate of Contribution
The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund by the Bank shall be:
Bank’s contribution - 12% (twelve per cent) of salary
Employee’s contribution -  8% (eight per cent) of salary)
Provident Fund contributions shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause  5  hereof subject to the
Rules of the Provident Fund.
(b)  Interest on Provident Fund Contributions held by Banks
Where Provident Fund monies are invested in the Bank, the Bank shall continue to   pay  the rate of interest paid
on 12 months’ fixed deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000 published by the N.S.B. or HNB whichever is higher
Bank
Performance
 ***

<!-- page 13 -->

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
prevailing as at the 1st January for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailing on the 1st July for the
second half of the year on the  net Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.
(c) Deficiency in Bank’ s Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not  entitled  to a Pension
Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitle him to a
pension or payment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to the difference
between the Bank’s contributions made to the Fund during his period of service and the employer’s minimum
rate of contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the Employees’ Provident Fund Act and its
amendments from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by the employer on   behalf of such employee. Such
deficiency will be the difference between the following minimum rates of contribution under the Act and 10% of
basic salary actually contributed by the Banks up to 31st March 1992.
From 1.1.71 to 31.12.80 - 9% of gross salary
From 1.1.81 onwards - 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12. 70 the employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary) which was
less than 10% of basic salary and therefore no deficiency arises.
13. Death Gratuity
On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the Bank, the Banks will
make a compassionate payment of two months basic salary for each year of completed service subject to a minimum
of nine months’ basic salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may be determined by the
Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the case of the death of an employee who
is not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a confirmed employee provided
that in the case of an employee who has not been confirmed  consequent  upon a  promotion  to a higher grade,  the
gratuity  payable will   be  calculated as in the case of a confirmed employee.
Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents shall
be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation under
any laws in force at the time on account  of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or an Award of Court,
whichever is higher. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose death occurred in consequence, the pre-
acceptance  of  death  gratuity  as  provided  herein  shall  not restrict  the  right of  such dependents in subsequently
claiming any balance compensation due to them under any any written law.
14. Gratuity on Resignation/Termination prior to Retirement
An employee shall, upon resignation/termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances  which  do not
entitle him to the terminal  benefits  referred to at  the  aforementioned Clauses be entitled to a gratuity computed in
terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983), which shall be paid within 30 days of the cessation of employment.
The salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referred to at Clause 5.
Completed  years  of  actual  service  shall  include only  actual continuous  service worked  excluding absence/leave
without pay, but subject to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 20 thereof.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
15. Promotions
Grade I
(a) Any employee promoted to the grade of Junior Executive from the Grade of Bank Associate will be entitled to
an addition of Rs. 3,000 to his last drawn gross monthly salary as a Bank Associate and he shall thereafter be
placed within the salary range for Junior Executives as provided for at clause (5) above. His salary and other
entitlements will thereafter be in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
(b) On promotion, an employee will serve a period of probation of 06 months. This period shall be extendable by a
period of 3 months. An employee who does not reach  the  required level for confirmation will be reverted to the
post from which he was promoted.
            Grade II
Following principles shall apply to the promotion of an employee from Grade 1 to Grade 2:
(a) An employee who is eligible under following criteria (b) will be considered for promotion  to Grade 2 subject
to an application being made by the employee.
(b) An employee eligible to make such application will be -
(i) A Junior Executive with 3 years’ service in Grade 1, with a good all round record of service and has
successfully completed at least Part 1 of the examination conducted by the Institute of Bankers.
(ii) A Junior Executive in Grade 1 who is not eligible for promotion to Grade 2 in terms of (i) above, will be
considered for promotion to Grade 2 subject to completion of 5 years’ service in Grade 1 and a good
all round record of service.
(c) A Junior Executive  in  Grade 1  shall  on  promotion to Grade 2 receive an  increase of Rs. 2,000/- in his
monthly basic salary with effect from the date he is so promoted.
(d) An employee will be considered for promotion from the first date of the month succeeding the month in
which the application is received by the Human Capital  Department.
           Grade Ill
Following principles shall apply to the promotion of an employee from Grade 2 to Grade 3:
(a) An employee who is eligible under following criteria (b) will be considered for promotion to Grade 3 subject
to an application being made by the employee.
(b) An employee eligible to make such application will be -
(i) A Junior Executive with 3 years’ service in Grade 2, with a good all round record of service and has
successfully completed at least Part 1 of the examination conducted by the Institute of Bankers.
(ii) A Junior Executive in Grade 2 who is not eligible for promotion to Grade 3 in terms of (i) above, will be
considered for promotion to Grade 3 subject to completion of 5 years’ service in Grade 2 and a good
all round record of service.
(c) A  Junior  Executive in Grade 2 shall on promotion to Grade 3 receive an increase of Rs. 3,000/- in his
monthly basic salary with effect from the date he is  so promoted.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(d) An employee will be considered for promotion from the first date of the month succeeding the month in
which the application is received by the Human Capital  Department.
16. Annual Leave, Medical and Casual Leave
(a) Annual Leave
(i) Entitlement
In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) during which
an employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following year 21
working days paid leave. He shall avail himself of at least 7 days out of the 21 days on successive
days and shall in respect of each year avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 21
working days.
(ii) Availment
The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorisation of the Bank upon the
employee’s application, giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times
mutually convenient.
(iii) Accumulation
Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively for the following purposes:
(a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.
(b) For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill.
(c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given.
(d) For marriage of the employee
(e) Prolonged illness of the employee.
(f) On account of the death of a family member provided that the employee has exhausted his
current year’s leave.
(g) For  purposes  of  nursing  third  and  fourth  children  beyond  the  Maternity  Leave
entitlement.
Provided that in the case of (b) to (d) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the
Management. Family member for purposes of (b) above shall mean  spouse, children or parents.
Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted up to a maximum of seven (7) days per
year and provided further that such total accumulation shall be restricted  to a maximum of
ninety (90) days.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(b) Medical Leave
(i) Entitlement
An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or
other holidays in any one year, in case of sickness on full  pay, subject to the conditions in sub-
clause (ii) hereof.
(ii) Availment
The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not
supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(a) where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays,
or
(b) where  the  number  of  days  already  allowed  on  full  pay  on  grounds of sickness, uncertified
by a Medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days in any one year.
 (iii) Accumulation
An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above shall be
entitled to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such  year in any succeeding year or
years, subject to the following provisions:
(a) in no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation,
exceed One Hundred & Twenty (120) days, and
(b) the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness,
hospitalisation or similar circumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered
Medical Practitioner,
(c) where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of  prolonged  illness
such  as an  infectious  disease  or prolonged hospitalisation an employer may permit him to set
off any further absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave upto the
extent of the leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness.
(iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and/
or take any action as appropriate in situations where the  absence on grounds of sickness not
supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following
circumstances:
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or
reason for absence of an employee, or
(b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows  or  precedes
any  weekly  or  other  holiday  and  the  Bank   has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides
of the application and/or reason for absence of the employee.
(c) Casual Leave
An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employment. All
casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for such absence is justified to the
satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not have been foreseen by such employee.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
17. Retirement
(a) The age of retirement shall be 55 years, or any other age mutually agreed to between  the Bank and its
employees, and on reaching the age of 55, or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso
facto retire and cease to be employed by the Bank  and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give
such employee any notice of such retirement.
(b) An employee may also be retired and be eligible for retirement benefits if he is not less than 50 years
and has 10 or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee,  his HNB Officers’
Union and the employer that he should be given   such  concession and subject to the condition that the
refusal by any party to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.
(c) An employee who is found to be unable to continue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/disability,
as certified by the Bank/s Doctor/Medical  Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who is in the
permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual
continuous service (excluding absence/leave without pay) is entitled to a pension or any other
superannuation scheme introduced by the Bank in lieu of Pension. Provided, however, that where an
employee is entitled to compensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or an Award of Court,
such employee shall only be entitled to a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both.
Provided further that in the case of an employee whose premature retirement occurred in consequence of
an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre-acceptance of pension or a benefit under any
other superannuation scheme introduced by the Bank in lieu of such pension as provided herein will not
restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any   balance  compensation under any
written law.
18. Suspension
(a) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to the
provisions of sub-clauses (b) and (c) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension  up to  six
months and full  pay thereafter,  subject  to  the  condition that the delay was not due to the employee
concerned.
(b) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or
misappropriation, the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless
the inquiry is not concluded within six months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half
his salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) during his suspension beyond the said six months period.
Provided that if the delay beyond six months is due to the employee’s own conduct or due to the employee
being in custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half
such salary as aforementioned will not be payable.
(c) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from
concluding the inquiry within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such
as where the employee makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in Police
custody or where the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half
his salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.
19. Disciplinary Procedure
Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, in the case of oral
warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the  following procedure shall apply:

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall  be furnished with a show
cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause
letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation in
writing to the charges preferred.
(b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to
the Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however  that if in the circumstances it is
reasonable the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written
explanation and where such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further
period of time as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show
cause and the Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the
employee and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and
shall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension.
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show  cause and the Bank is
not satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub- clause (k)(iii) hereof, hold an inquiry
into the charges against such employee.
(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the
date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so
for reasons beyond the Bank’ control, or by reason  of  the  employee’s   own  conduct  or  seeking,   or   by
reason   of  unforeseen circumstances.
(f) The Bank will permit a member of the HNB Officers’ Union of the same Grade or of a  Higher Grade than the
accused employee or an office bearer of the HNB Officers’ Union irrespective of grade (in which case the
Bank reserves to itself the right to prevent the  person carrying on the defense for unacceptable conduct)
or an Executive Committee Member of the HNB Officers’ Union employed in the Bank to defend the
accused    employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained a legal
qualification. The defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absence from work on this
account. The Bank will further allow another member of the HNB Officers’ Union to be present at the
inquiry as an Observer without loss of salary for  absence from work. The accused employee shall submit
to the Bank in writing the name of the defending employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the
time appointed for the commencement of the inquiry. The defending employee shall be entitled to examine
the witnesses for the accused employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The Inquiring Officer
will be entitled to require a defending employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw
therefrom and the defending employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement. The
absence of a defending employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason
whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
The Observer shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which
the Inquiring Officer may ask him.
(g) The HNB Officers’ Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to
the Observer and the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings
have been certified and a copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings
shall be taken as a true  copy of such proceedings before the Inquiring Officer. In respect of any document
marked at an inquiry, the Bank will release copies of such documents to the HNB Officers’ Union with the
proceedings, provided however, that the Bank may refuse to release any such documents provided such
documents in its opinion are of a confidential nature.
(h) The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of  the prosecution
as well.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee,
in writing, of the findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment,  if any, imposed by the
Employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working
days except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee,
such employee shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse
to the employee shall be drawn in respect of  such charges.
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a  domestic inquiry
in any of the following circumstances:
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed
to show cause in which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis
that such employee had no cause to show.
(ii) where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
(iii) where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the HNB Officers’
Union’s right to request the Employer thereafter to hold an inquiry in which event the fact that
the inquiry did not commence within twenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s
explanation shall not be material or relevant.
(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and
binding on the Bank and the employee and the HNB Officers’ Union, unless the employee or the HNB
Officers’ Union shall within three (3) months from the date on which  the  Bank  had notified such
employee  of the  findings  or  punishment,  raises a  dispute in respect of such findings and/or
punishment.
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that -
(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment
shall take effect as from the date of suspension or such   later date as the Bank may determine;
provided further that the Bank shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment
made in respect of salary to  the employee in respect of such period of suspension, if any such
payment has been made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed
forthwith and shall be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension
without prejudice to the right of the Bank to impose such other punishment other than
termination, which may include the whole or part of the  period of  suspension  pending
inquiry,  on the  basis of the findings  of  the inquiry.
(n) The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is
not held in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or  has been referred, to the
Police or other authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are
pending against the employee.
(o) The above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries that commenced after the date of
signing of this Agreement.

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
20. Medical Scheme
(i) Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-Hospitalisation Expenses
The  Bank will  reimburse  an employee  up to a  maximum  of  Rs 50,000/-  in respect of medical expenditure
incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf of his spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 21
and the parents of the employee in respect of routine non-hospitalisation/non-surgical and specialist treatment,
and subject to the following:
(a) All medical claims shall be supported by valid and relevant prescriptions, bills and receipts. The
maximum validity period of Medical Bills and receipts will be four years  from the date of issuance.
(b) Prescriptions or Doctor’s bills are from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(c) The unutilised portion of the allocation for the year could be utilized in the future years without any
restrictions subject to valid bills being submitted within a reasonable period  of time as aforesaid.
(ii) The Bank will further reimburse a sum upto a maximum of Rs.20,000/- on a non- cumulative basis for Medical
Reports in respect of an Annual Health Checkup only for the employees over 35 years of age. Further, spouse of
an employee who are over 35 years of age will be entitled for Annual Health Checkup within the same limit entitled
to the employee subject to the following.
(a) The entitlement could be utilized within a calendar year
(b) The medical tests specified in the Annexure I and any other medical tests prescribed by a Registered
Medical Practitioner must be carried out concurrently to be entitled for reimbursement.
(c) The Claim Form accompanying the bills should be forwarded to the Talent Rewards & Benefits Division,
Head Office for payment.
(iii) Special Non-Hospitalisation and Non-surgical Expenditure
The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-cumulative basis a combined allowance maximum upto Rs.50,000/
- for undermentioned purposes on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family members.
(a) Spectacles
(b) Dentures & Nerve Filling
(c) Hearing Aids
Subject to valid documentation as in the case of (i) above and subject to the provisions that no claim is
made in relation to any particular item referred in iii (a) & (c) more than once in three years and in the case
of spectacles it must be supported by a prescription from a Medical Eye Specialist. Further, employees will
be able to make claims on dentures and nerve filling for any number of occasions within the stipulated limit.
Provided further however, in the case of employees over the age of 47 years, a claim for spectacles may be
allowed once in two years.
(iv) Surgical and Hospitalisation Expenditure
Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical and hospitalisation (whether Government or Private) expenses
incurred on behalf of the employee, his spouse and unmarried legitimate children under 21 years of age, subject
to the production of valid documentation covering every claim or expenditure, up to the following limits per
annum:

<!-- page 21 -->

21AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(a) Hospital or Nursing Room Charges - Standard A/C Room charge per day:
Daily Limit Rs 5,000/- per day
Government Hospital Allowance.
(b) Emergency Treatment Travel - Rs.5,000/- subject to submission
expenses (maximum) of valid receipt
The rate is Rs 50/- per kilometer
(c) Overall limit for any one year - Rs 350,000
Hospitalization  charges  on  normal birth will  be permitted from the  Bank’s Surgical   &
Hospitalization Expenses Scheme
The First Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be
effected.
(v) Maternity Grant
(a) An employee who is married will be entitled to a grant of Rs. 12,000/- in respect of two births of
children. If both spouses are employed in the Bank only one shall  be entitled to this grant.
(b) In the case of reimbursement under surgical and hospitalisation expenses, for maternity, an employee
shall not be entitled to the grant in terms of (i) above.
21. Trade Union Action
(a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement
The HNB Officers’ Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally
agree with the Bank that during the continuance in force of this Agreement  they shall not engage in any
strike or other form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or
any form of collective action against  the  Bank  in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement.
(b) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement
The HNB Officers’ Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement  jointly and severally
agree with the Bank that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any
strike or other form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or
any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not
related to this Agreement until
(i) The HNB Officers’ Union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute
amicably with the Bank.
(ii) HNB Officers’ Union has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with
the Bank and the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the HNB Officers’
Union has to give notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days  of the fact that there has been
no satisfactory settlement of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade Union action. Such
notice shall be given to the Bank, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and to the Commissioner
General of Labour.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(iv) A dispute arising out of failed negotiations for a fresh Collective Agreement after 31st day of March
2021, cannot be construed interpreted and/or implied by the Employer  as a dispute related and
covered by this Agreement.
22. HNB Officers’ Union Check Off
During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the HNB Officers’ Union has not less than forty
(40) percent membership among the employees covered by  this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant
check-off, provided, however, that the Bank reserves the  right to  stop,  suspend,  or discontinue  such facility
in the event of the    HNB Officers’ Union violating any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation
to the Bank.
23. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement
(a) Where either the HNB Officers’ Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective
Agreement is being implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer
technology change such matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting
of two representatives from the Bank and two representatives from the HNB Officers’ Union. The Bank or
the HNB Officers’ Union may request that a matter be placed before the  Monitoring Committee by
communication addressed to the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting  out the cause of complaint.
(b) Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under
Section 3 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1950.
24. Consequences of Termination of Agreement
On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the
HNB Officers’ Union and/or its members shall ipso facto cease ;-
25. Definitions
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases  shall have the
following meanings:
Bank Hatton National Bank PLC
Employee an employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Employer Hatton National Bank PLC
HNB Officers’ Union H atton National Bank PLC Officers’ Union
Dispute A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the
Industrial disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the
Bank and the HNB Officers’ Union
Words importing the masculine gender  shall include the feminine
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice
versa.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
The First Schedule
(1) (a) The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified  in Clause 20 (iv)
of  the Agreement.  It shall be the duty of the employee to  enroll   members  of his family immediately on
becoming eligible to  be included in this Scheme.
No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.
(2) Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital.
(3) The Bank must be notified promptly, and in any event not later than on the first business day following admission
to hospital.
(4) The Bank will be entitled to take out  Insurance Policies covering reimbursements  under this  Scheme  and  the
employee  shall  be  required  to  make  declarations   (includingcompletion and signing of Insurance Proposal forms)
and submit documentation required by Bank/Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable the Bank to obtain
reimbursement from the Insurance Companies. The Bank will advise by internal circular issued from time to time the
documentary requirements and time limits within which documents should be submitted. Where an employee does
not comply, he will not be entitled to  benefits under  this Scheme.
(5) Employees  shall  uphold  the  principle of  uberrima fide  when  making declarations  and submitting claims under
this Scheme  and any  deviation would disqualify  the employee from receiving any benefit under this Scheme.  In
addition, the employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set-out in this Agreement.
(6) (a) The Bank will  circulate  by  internal  circular  published  from time to  time  a list of Hospitals  /  nursing homes,
expenses    incurred  at which,  will be eligible for  reimbursement  under  the Scheme.  Additions  and/or
deletions  to this list will also be made by internal circular.
(b) If for  reasons of geographical  location any employee believes  he may not be in a  position to use any of the
Institutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of
amendments to the list referred  to in the preceding sub-paragraph,  requesting special dispensation to use a
named Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall consider such application on a case by  case basis and,
where deemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensation, provided however, that the decision of the
Bank on this matter shall be final and  conclusive.
(7) Exclusions
The Scheme shall not cover benefits/expenses:
(a) Arising from  an injury sustained or  a sickness  contracted  outside Sri  Lanka or for  treatment outside Sri
Lanka.
(b) Occasioned by or happening through
(i) The participation by the employee or other eligible family members in War,   Invasion,  Act  of  Foreign
Enemy,  Hostilities  (whether  war  be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection,
Mutiny or  Usurped  Power,  Military,   Popular   Rising  or  while  serving  as  a  member of any Defence,
Police, Security Force, Home Guard etc.
(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, Venereal Disease, Insanity and Illnesses resulting from Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome.

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(iii) Normal child birth or pregnancy subject to clause 20(iv). Provided that  if an employee has been employed
for a continuous period of twelve months,  the  Bank will pay the  medical expenses  incurred  for any
abnormality of maternity which is in excess of what a normal child birth would  have cost.  The  responsibility
for  furnishing the  Bank  with  the required proof  of  the  extra  cost  involved,  such  as  a  letter  from  the
Doctor/Hospital, will be on the employee who makes the claim.
(iv) Earthquake, V olcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave.
(c) Incurred whilst travelling in an aircraft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard type
of civil aircraft operated by a recognized Airlines on a  regular  route or in a fully licensed standard  type of  civil
aircraft having two or more  engines  operated  by  a  recognized  Air  Charter  Company  or  owned  by  a
Commercial or  Industrial firm and piloted by a  Pilot holding a Commercial  Pilot’s License.
(d) In respect of Eye Tests or Dental Treatment.
(e) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in  the Bank’s service.
(8) The  benefits under  this  Scheme shall  not be cumulative  and the words  “any  one Year”  in Clause  20  (iv)  of  the
Agreement  shall  be deemed  to  be the  period  01st  January to 31st December. In the case of employees who join
during the course of a  year  the  overall  limit  and  event  limit  up  to  the  period  ending  the  next 31st December will
be pro-rated to the number of full months of service up to 31st December.
(9) In   respect   of   claims   for   hospitalization   which   span   the   end   of   any   year, reimbursement  will  be  made  out
of  the  entitlement  of  either  or  both  years, subject,  however, to the event limit specified in Clause 20 (iv) of the
Agreement.
(10) Bank shall review the permission of Hospitalization charges on Normal Delivery and relaxation of children age limit to
21years  &  recurrent illness clauses prevailed in 2012  Collective Agreement,  in the  event  scheme  is undertaken  by
the  insurance provider
The Second Schedule
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computed Based Banking
Technology by the Bank covered and bound by this Agreement.
(1) Wherever practical, the Bank will endeavour to ensue that jobs are designed to include a mix of VDU/non  VDU
tasks which  seek to provide variation in visual and mental demands upon the operator.
(2) The workload of operators of VDUs will be regularly reviewed by Management for  the purpose of ensuring
proper safety and effectiveness of the operation.
(3) The  Banks  agree  to  provide  VDU  operators  with  adequate  training  within  the parameters of  their job
description to ensure the safety and health of   employees.
(4) (a)  In selecting VDUs  the  Bank will attempt  to obtain equipment which will  ensure  the following:
(i) Screens that give clear stable images
(ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and  improved maneuverability.
(iii)  Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.
(b) The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum  functioning of the VDUs.

<!-- page 25 -->

25AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
The  Bank will  pay  attention  to  the  proper  positioning of  screens,  keyboards  and provide facilities
for  placing documents  and  ancillary equipment  in a  manner  to facilitate the work of employees.
The Bank will endeavour  to provide lighting facilities to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.
Employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management  of  the  Bank, is the operation
of a VDU, will be permitted to visit, at the cost of the Bank, an  Optician  selected  by  the  Bank  to  have
his  eyesight  examined  prior  to   his commencing employment  on a VDU.  In the event  of  an adverse
report being obtained from the Optician, the employee should inform the Bank immediately.
Where  an  employee  whose  main  or  primary  function,  as  decided  by the Management  of  the  Bank,
is  the  operation  of  a  VDU,  and  he  is  already  using spectacles,  when  he is called upon to operate a
VDU for the first time, he will be  permitted, at the expenses of the Bank, to be examined by an Optician
nominated by the Bank for the purpose of obtaining an opinion as to whether any modification is
necessary  to  his  lenses.  The  cost  of  such  examination and  modification to the lenses if necessary will
be borne by the Bank on the following basis
(i) The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the Medical
Assistance Scheme herein.
(ii) The cost of  modification of the lenses will be met within the Medical  Assistance Scheme, but if
such cost should exceed the limits prescribed by the Scheme, the Bank will bear such additional
cost as  well.
(5) Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a data entry operator causes a certain  amount  of
strain,  the  Bank  is  agreeable  to  a  reasonable  pause  in  entering  information at or about the end of each
period of 2 hours so long as there is no disruption of the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does
not exceed 10 minutes.
(6) The provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the
Management of the Bank, is operating a VDU. Provided however the HNB Officers’ Union will be entitled to
make representations as to whether the main or primary function is the operation of  a VDU  subject  to there
being no industrial dispute being raised on this issue.
(7) The  Bank agrees  that  they will not seek  to retrench employees who  become redundant solely and exclusively
in consequence of the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology.  Instead,  the  Bank  may  avail
itself  of  any  one  or  more  of  the  following  options.
(a) The    aforementioned    excess   employees   may  be  transferred   to  other sections/departments to
perform work which is within their skill and capacity without reduction  in  salary  and allowances which
are in force at such time in  relation  to  such  employees.  This option  refers  to  a transfer  other  than
within the scope of employment which the Bank would under  normal circumstances be entitled to effect.
(b) The  Bank  may,  on  a  transfer  within  the  scope  of  (a)  above,  re-train an employee if the employer
considered it necessary.
(c) The Banks will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated
in this Agreement, with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon
and this will not amount to retrenchment within the meaning of this Schedule.
(8) For  the  purpose  of this Agreement,  retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the  employees
made redundant consequent  upon the introduction of new Computer  Based  Banking  Technology.   It  will  not
include  a   situation   where   such   redundant employees voluntarily leave the service of the employer on terms
mutually agreed upon.
 RE 1

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
 Annexure  I
HEALTH   CHECKUP    FOR   STAFF    MEMBERS    OVER    35    YEARS    OF   AGE
CLAIM    FORM
EPF No. : .............................. Branch/Departm ent ............................................. .
Name with initials
(Mr/Mrs/Miss) ........................................................................................................................................ .
Age .................................... . Category   ....................................    Amount ......................
(Please tick “X”)
Haemogram
Haemoglobin
P.C.V .
R.B.C.
MCHC  MCV MCH
Total W. B. C.
E. S. R.
Peripheral Smear
Biochemical Parameters
Fasting & PP Blood Sugar
Urea
Creatinine
Uric Acid
Lipid Profile
Total Cholesterol
HDLCholesteroal
LDL Cholesteroal
Triglycerides
Total Cholesterol/HDL Ratio
Liver Function Tests
Total Protein
Albumin
Globulin
SGPT
Alkaline Phosphatase
GGTP
SGOT
Serum Bilirubin
General Tests
VDRL
Blood Grouping & Rh typing
Complete Urine Analysis
Stools Test
Pap Smear for women/P.S.A. for men
E.C.G.
Chest X-Ray
Ultrasonogram of the Abdomen
Cardiac Stress Analysis  (CSA/TMT)
Pulmonary  Function Test  ( PFT)
I  certify that  this claim and  the  bills  submitted  therewith  are genuine  in  respect  of  expenditure incurred by me. I also
declare that I have not made a claim under the Health checkup for the past 12 months.
Signature Date


<!-- page 27 -->

27AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
In witness hereof the said parties have set their hands hereunto on this 12th October 2018 at Colombo.
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
 Hatton National Bank  PLC  HNB PLC Officers’ Union
Name : L Chiranthi Cooray (Mrs) Name : Suranga Peiris
Designation : Chief Human Resource Officer/ Designation : President
DGM - HR
Vajira Ellepola, P. N. D. Gomes
Deputy Director General General Secretary,
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon HNB PLC Officer's Union.
Witness :
D. I. V . Senadhira, T.  M. P. Peiris,
Head of Human Capital Management, Executive Committee Member
Hatton National Bank PLC HNB PLC Officer's Union.
J. A. D. S. Ayoj, A. H. B. K. Weerakoon,
Assistant Manager - Talent Rewards & Benefits Executive Committee Member
Hatton National Bank PLC HNB PLC Officer's Union.
02- 97
My No. CI/1836.
THE   INDUSTRIAL    DISPUTES   ACT.   CHAPTER   131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Built Element Limited, No. 175, Sri Sumanatissa Mawatha, Colombo 12
of the one part  and the  Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya, No. 341/21, 4th Floor, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya of the
other part on 17th May 2019 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of
the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
B. K. P
RABATH CHANDRAKEERTHI ,
 Commissioner  General  of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
November, 2020.
 Collective Agreement No.   16 of 2019
AGREEMENT   BETWEEN    BUILT    ELEMENT   LIMITED    AND
SRI    LANKA   NIDAHAS   SEV AKA   SANGAMAYA
This Agreement entered into at Colombo on this 17th of May Two Thousand  and nineteen, pursuant to the Industrial
Disputes Act between THE BUILT ELEMENT LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as “THE EMPLOYER”) having its
registered Office at No.175, Sri Sumanatissa Mawatha, Colombo 12 and its factory at No. 72, Katukurunduwatta Road,
Off Templers Road, Ratmalana and SRI LANKA NIDAHAS SEV AKA SANGAMAY A having its registered office at
341/ 21, 4th Floor, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya. (hereinafter referred to as “THE UNION”) is as follows :

<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
1. Employer Covered and Bound
This Agreement shall bind Messrs. BUILT ELEMENT LIMITED a Limited Liability Company incorporated in Sri
Lanka and having its registered Office at 175, Sri Sumanatissa Mawatha, Colombo 12 as  EMPLOYER.
2. Employees Covered and Bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind Members of the Union who are employed as permanent employees in a
manual or labouring capacity by the Company but will not be applicable to employees employed in such
capacities who are on probation or are employed by the day or by the job.
3. Earlier Agreements
(a) Whereas the Employer and  Commercial  & Industrial  Workers’  Union have entered into an Agreement on
27th August 1993 in the presence of the Commissioner of Labour.
(b) And whereas the employer and Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya have entered into an Agreement on
9th January 1998 and published in the Extra Ordinary Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka No.1032 / 7 of 16-06-1998.
2. The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of earlier Agreements
referred to in Para 3 (1)  above  except the Agreement  referred to in Para 3 (1) (a).
4. Date of Operation and Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of December Two Thousand and eighteen shall thereafter
continue in force unless it  is  determined  by  either party giving six month’s notice in writing to the other,
provided expressly that one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the First day of
June, Two Thousand and twenty one and such notice shall not expire before the 30th day of November, Two
Thousand and twenty one.
(a) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lanka Rupee under any provision of law, a party
shall be at liberty to abrogate this Agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other after
having discussion with the party concerned in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
(b) Authorized Verson
In the event of any dispute regarding the interpretation of this agreement as between the English and
Sinhala versions, the English version shall  prevail.
5. General Terms and Conditions of Employment
During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed
to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this Agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting
on the date hereof or which shall come into bring at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in
force of this Agreement.
(a) Standing Orders
On any matter not expressly provided for in this Agreement, the Worker shall be bound by the Standing
orders and rules of  the  Company  in  force from time  to time and such standing orders and rules shall be
deemed  to  form  part  and parcel  of the  Contracts  of employment  of each worker.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(b) Govenment Action
If at any time during the continuance of this agreement the Government introduces legislations or otherwise
any scheme for the ban of importing manufacturing, distribution, sale of Chrisotile related products and/
or raw materials needed for the manufacturing and/ or due to relocation or substantial reduction in sales
this agreement would cease to be in operation the date on which such legislations/ scheme becomes
effective and both parties agree to re negotiate the agreement.
(c) Productivity Improvement and Elimination of Waste
The employees and the union commit their fullest co-operation to the employer to enhance productivity
levels in the factory and eliminate waste in all forms inclusive of prolonged time taken for maintenance in
the mutual interest of preserving the future of Built Element Limited and it’s employees.
6. Probation
Every Employee recruited by the  Employer  shall serve a period  of probation  of not more than six (6) months.
Provided  however  that  if  during  the  six  (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied  with  the
progress  of such Employee, the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months
and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period
has been extended.  During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to
terminate  the  service of the Employee  without  notice.
If the Employee’s services are not terminated for unsatisfactory  service during the period of probation or
extended probation and the Employee has not been confirmed by the Employer the Employee shall be deemed to
be confirmed  in his Employer’s service with effect from the day on which the period of probation or extended
probation as the case may be ended.
7. Attendence
(1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on
every day (other than a holiday)  at  the  usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job  and  shall there
remain  available for work throughout the normal working  hours.
(2) If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in his own occupation
he shall be deemed to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other
occupation at any other work site of the Employer where work is available.
(3) Irregular attendance or un-punctuality  of an Employee  shall constitute  neglect of duty for which he shall
be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
(4) The  Employer  shall be  entitled  to take  disciplinary  action including  termination of employment  in
respect  of habitual  absenteeism  of an  Employee.
8. Hours of Work
There shall be four shifts of work in the factory and the hours of work of such shifts shall be those hours
presently worked on each of these four shifts   :
The first three shall be on a rotation basis effected weekly and the Employees of these shifts shall be required
to work on any of these shifts according to the exigencies of the Employer’s requirements. The Employer may
change the hours of work at its discretion, by prior notice.

<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
9. Forfeiture of Wages
Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer an Employee fails to hold himself available for
work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and the Employer shall be
entitled to deduct his wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available
for work.
10. Overtime
(1) If required by the Employer an Employee  shall work reasonable  overtime,  which has been authorized by
the  Employer.  Refusal  to work  reasonable  overtime  in the absence of a satisfactory explanation, which
is  acceptable  to  the Employer, shall constitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall  be  liable  to
appropriate   disciplinary  action.
(2) Overtime work ( i.e. work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated  at one and
one half  ( 1 1/2)  times the normal  hourly  rate  ascertained in accordance with  the provisions  of  18 (a)
hereof.
The rate  of overtime  payment  is arrived  at by dividing the wages by 240   hours.
11. Weekly Holidays
(1) In respect of each week every Employee  shall  be  allowed  a  holiday  on  the Sunday in that week as the
weekly holiday. Provided  however  that  if  any Employee has not worked for a period of at least  twenty
eight  (28)  hours, exclusive of any period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit
and the  Employer  shall be  entitled  to deduct  one day’s wage in respect of the weekly holiday for that
week computed in accordance with the   provisions of  clause 18 (b) hereof.
(2) The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions -
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly  holiday  shall  be allowed to that Employee
as a holiday with remuneration. Provided however that if any Employee who is employed on  a
weekly holiday  is liable to forfeit and the Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect
of  that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and in such event that Employee shall
forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in accordance with the
provisions of clause 18 (b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that Employee
within  six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further that in respect of not more than two
(2) such weekly holidays in any one calendar month the Employer may with the consent of the
Employee -
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of
which that Employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled  to
deduct  one day’s wage as aforesaid pay him one day’s wage computed in accordance with the
provisions of clause 18 (b) hereof in lieu of such alternate holiday, or
(b) In case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly
holiday as aforesaid in respect of which alternate holiday he shall be  liable  to forfeit  and  the
Employer  shall be entitled to deduct a day’s wage as aforesaid employ that Employee  on the
alternate holiday.

<!-- page 31 -->

31AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(ii) That in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration -
(a) One and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained  in accordance with the
provisions of clause 18 (a) hereof  for  the  number  of hours worked during the first eight (8)
hours ; and
(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 18
(a) hereof for each subsequent hour of work.
(3) The provisions of this sub-clause shall not apply to Employees engaged on work outside the business
premises of the Employer for periods exceeding twelve (12) days in respect of the duration of each such
period.
(4) Saturday shall be a Half working day (working time - 5 hours) each week.
(5) In computing the period of 28 hours, every day on which an Employee is on no pay shall not be reckoned
for the purpose of computing the said 28 hours.
(6) An Employee must work for 28 hours in a week to be entitled for the weekly holiday and in computing the
period of 28 hours the Employer shall include :
(a) every holiday allowed and approved by the Employer to the Employee as annual holiday, causal
leave and sick leave, and
(b) every Public Holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause 13 of the Collective Agreement.
12. Annual Holidays
Annual holidays shall be  allowed  to an Employee  in accordance with  the decisions of the Wages Board for the
Engineering   Trade.
13. Public Holidays
(1) Public holidays shall be allowed  to  an  Employee  in  accordance  with the decisions of the wages Board
for the  Engineering  Trade.  Provided  however that an Employee may be employed on Public holiday  in
accordance  with  the decisions of the Wages Board for the Engineering Trade.
(2) If any Public Holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a
Sunday, a day either in the six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days  immediately  succeeding
such  Public  Holiday shall be granted to the Employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the
provisions of clause 11 hereof.
(3) If any Public Holiday to which an  Employee  is eligible  under  the  provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a
Saturday, the number of hours constituting the normal working day on the  day  immediately  preceding
such  Public  Holiday  shall  be five (5) hours.
14. Casual Leave
(1) In respect of each year of employment during which any Employee has been continuously in employment
that Employee shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including
ill health of that Employee’s entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to
as “Casual leave”) with remuneration for the period or an aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7)
days  and  the  Employer  shall  allow  such casual leave and shall be liable to pay  such  remuneration.

<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
Provided  however that not more than two (2) days casual leave  shall be taken  at any time  save and except
upon the ground  of  ill health.  Provided  further  that  any worker shall not be entitled to take casual leave
immediately preceding or immediately following any period of annual holidays. Provided further that in
respect of any Employee’s first year of employment  including  any period  of probation  he  shall be
entitled to casual leave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two
months service.
(2) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the
reason for the application. Where an Employer   finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave his
difficulty shall be notified to the Employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such
case the Employee may be required to state the reason for the application  in order that the Employer may
decide whether it is reasonable in  the circumstances to grant him casual leave.
15. Sick Leave
In any year  an Employee  shall be entitled  to sick leave not exceeding twenty   one (21)  days. Provided that  -
(a) his illness is supported by a certificate from a registered medical practitioner unless waived by the Employer
and
(b) The Employee shall not be  on  probation  within  the  meaning  of  clause  (6) hereof. Provided however that
an Employee who has been on probation  shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder
of the first year of employment be entitled to sick leave not exceeding ten (10)  days  if  he is confirmed after
six (6) months’ probation and sick leave  not  exceeding five  (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9)
months’ probation.
16. Monthly Consolidated Wages
1. Subject to the provisions of Clause 17 hereof, as from the First Day of December Two thousand and
eighteen each Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained
a monthly consolidated wage on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second
Schedule hereto.
2. The scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto include and all statutory
allowances payable in law as at this date
(a) The Allowance of Twenty Five (25) per cent upto a maximum of Fifty Rupees (Rs.50 / =) per month
payable in terms of the Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers’ Law (No.1)  of 1978 and the Allowance
of Fifty  Five   Rupees (Rs.55/ =) per month payable in terms of the Supplementary Allowance of
Workers’ Act, No.65 of 1979.
(b) A sum of Rupees One Hundred and Fifty (Rs.150 / =) .
(c) A sum of Rupees Four Hundred (Rs.400 / =) in terms of the Extra Ordinary Gazette No.1143/ 9 of
31.07.2000.
(3) This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
(4) (a) At the expiry of the twelve month period commencing from the First day of November Two Thousand
and eighteen the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto shall be revised by
addition to and consolidation with the salary at each stage of each grade of an amount in Sri Lanka Rupees
equal to the number of complete points by which the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index figure has increased
during such twelve month period, multiplied by one hundred & seventy five (175), and the salary payable

<!-- page 33 -->

33AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
to each Employee under this Agreement shall accordingly be increased by  a like  amount  as from the First
day of November Two thousand and nineteen.
At the expiry of each twelve month period commencing from the First day of November Two Thousand and
nineteen scales of consolidated wages revised in the manner prescribed above shall be revised in like
manner as from the  First day of November of the succeeding year by addition to and consolidation with
the wage at each stage and grade of the consolidated wages in force in the twelve month period immediately
preceding of an amount equal to the number of complete points by which the Colombo Consumers’ Price
Index has increased during such preceding twelve month period, multiplied by one hundred  & seventy
five (175) and the salary of each Employee as from the First day of November of the succeeding year shall
be increased by a like amount during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
(5) If during the continuance  in force of this Agreement  the  Government  of Sri Lanka.
a) prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement
legally obliging the Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in  wages
prescribed by such written law and in terms of such written law :
b) recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not  be applicable to the Employer, irrespective
of whether or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
17. Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages
(1) For the purpose of ascertaining the wages which an Employee shall receive with effect from 1st December
2018 on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto, the following
provisions, subject to the provisions of Clause (16) hereof, shall apply.
(2) The wages for the month  of  November  2018  have  been  consolidated  at  124 points of the  Colombo
Consumers’  Price  Index.  An  employee  who  is covered and bound by this agreement  and  has  also  in
employment  as  at  the  effective date of Agreement will receive an immediate increase  of  23%  of  the
wages  for the month of November 2018, from the effective  date. The  increment  on % age basis  shall not
be  a norm  in  the future.
The employee will receive an additional wage increase of Rs.1,850/ = for the Financial  Year  2019/ 2020  and
another  Rs.2,050 / =  for  the  Financial  Year 2020 / 2021 effective from 1st April each year.
(3) Each Employee will then be placed on the exact point of the wage scale applicable to him in the Second
Schedule hereto or on the next higher stage if there is no corresponding wage point on the wage scale in
the Second Schedule hereto.
(4) When an employee reaches the maximum scale in the consolidated wages  set out in the second schedule
hereto due to the special wage increase, such employee will be placed on the appropriate step beyond the
maximum scale.
5) The consolidated wages set out in the second schedule hereto will not be applicable to the Permanent
employee who will be employed after this date of agreement and such employee will be paid a monthly
wage as follows. The
Monthly Wage Annual Increment
Skilled A Rs.17,216 / = 500/ =
Skilled Rs.17,216/ = 400 / =
Semi Skilled Rs. 17, 151/ = 280 / =
Unskilled Rs.17, 144/ = 200 / =

<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
18. Wages for Periods less than One Month
For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any Employee for periods less  than one month  shall be
computed  in the  manner  following -
(a) for  one hour the monthly wage  divided by two
hundred  and  forty (240) ;
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30);
(c) for one-half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divide by two (2) ;
(either morning  or afternoon)
d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by
seven (7);
19. Non- Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity
(1) As the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto  have been fixed on the basis
of the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index being 124 an Employee shall subject to the provisions of the
succeeding sub-clause be entitled to receive and the Employer shall be liable to pay a non-recurring cost
of living gratuity to the Employee in each year in respect of the preceding  twelve (12) months (01
November to 31 October hereinafter referred to as “the qualifying period”) commencing from the First day
of November Two Thousand and eighteen ascertained in accordance with the under noted formula
The  Formula  :
If the average of the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index for the qualifying period exceeds 124 a sum computed
at Rupees one hundred & seventy five (175) for each complete point (i.e.1.0) by which such average
exceeds 124 respect of each  month of service during the qualifying period.
(2) When at the expiry of each twelve month period commencing on the First day of November Two Thousand
and eighteen the scales of consolidated wages have been revised in manner set out in clause 16 (4) hereof,
the base index figure in the formula for the purpose of calculating the non-recurring cost of living gratuity
shall thereafter be increased by the number of points by which the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index figure
has risen during each twelve month period as specified in clause 16 (4) hereof.
(3) The non-recurring cost of living gratuity shall be payable by the employer to an Employee who is eligible
to receive the same by virtue of his service under the Employer during a part of the qualifying year by
reason of the fact that he is not in the Employer’s service when the non-recurring cost of living gratuity
becomes due in November of any year or he joined that Employer’s service during the course of the
qualifying year.
(4) The non-recurring cost of living gratuity shall not be payable to an Employee in respect of any period for
which he receives no wages for whatever reason.
(5) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on the non-
recurring cost of living gratuity.

<!-- page 35 -->

35AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
20. Provident Fund
(1) The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’
Provident Fund Act, No.15 of 1958.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Employees’ Trust Fund Act, No.46  of 1980, where the Employer and
Employee as at the date hereof were contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those
prescribed  by  the Employees’ Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
21. Terminal Benefits
(1) Employer will subject as hereinafter provided pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with the
scheme of terminal benefits set out in this Clause.
(2) The scheme shall apply to every Employee in the  service  of  the  Employer  on the First day of December
Two thousand and eighteen so long  as  this  Agreement continues in force.
(3) The basis of the payment of Terminal Benefits shall be as follows :
(a) Employees with service not
exceeding five years.
(b) Employees with service exceeding
five  years but not exceeding
twenty years.
(c) Employees with service exceeding
twenty  years but not exceeding
twenty five years.
(d) Employees  with  service exceeding
Twenty  Five years.
(4) If an employee dies due to natural or accidental death whilst in  service,  the Terminal Benefits payable to
him will be increased by 25%.
(5) The wage on which the said Terminal Benefits shall be payable will be the last consolidated monthly wage
receivable by an Employee.
(6) Part of the period of Half year shall be reckoned as  half  year  m  computing  the service of an employee.
(7) For the purpose of calculating Terminal Benefits under this Clause an  year  of service shall be a period of
not less than six months.
Nil
Half month’s Terminal Wages for each completed Year of
service
For the 1st  20  years  service  1/2  month’s Terminal wages
for each completed year of service and  3/4th month’s
wages for each completed year of service for the period
exceeding  20  years.
(i) 1/2 month’s Terminal wages for each completed year
of service for  the  1st  20 year service.
(ii) 3/ 4 month’s Terminal wages for each completed year
of service for the period exceeding 20 years but not
exceeding 25 years.
(iii) 1 month’s Terminal wages for each completed year
of service for the period exceeding 25 years.

<!-- page 36 -->

36A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(8) The Terminal Benefits provided for in this Clause shall be payable to an Employee on the cessation of his
service arising from death or any other cause whatsoever. Provided however that if at the date of cessation
of an Employee’s service there is due to the Employer from the Employee any sum on account of fraud,
misappropriation, any outstanding loan or liability or any other account and  the same cannot be recovered
from the amount in the Employee’s  credit  in  the Provident Fund the same shall be  recovered  from the
Terminal  Benefits provided for herein and or the Thrift fund for which the employer is contributing at 2.5%
of the employees wages which is taken into consideration for recovery of EPF/ ETF.
(9) On the death of an Employee whilst in service, who is eligible to receive Terminal Benefits under this
Clause, the Employer shall pay such Terminal Benefits in the manner and to the persons hereinafter set
forth -
(a) If there is a valid nomination in force for the purpose of  the  deceased Employee’s Provident Fund
at the date of his death, to  the  nominee  or nominees of such Employee in conformity with the form
of nomination where such nominee is surviving and of full age.
(b) Where there is no valid nomination or in the event of the nominee or any one or more of the nominees
having pre deceased the Employee, or in the event of a nominee being a minor at the time that the
payment of the Terminal Benefits become due, the Employer shall make payment only after the
person or persons entitled to the payment have established their claim in law and furnished proof
thereof.
(10) In the event of any written law providing for the payment of gratuity or Terminal Benefits the more
favourable scheme shall apply but not both.
(11) No employee shall be entitled to any Gratuity or Terminal Benefits in addition to the Terminal Benefits
provided for in this Clause or by any written law as the case may be.
22. Bonus
The present scheme of the Payment of Annual Bonus to Employees which is an ex-gratia  payment  shall
continue  to  be  in force  as enumerated  below :
(A) A SERVICE BONUS in a sum equivalent to 1 12/ month’s wage  will  be payable to each employee eligible
for such payment according to the present scheme and practice relating to such payment which shall be in
two  instalments  payable  in April and December and the amount would be equivalent to 1/2  month’s
wages of April and 01 month wages of December respectively.
(B) A PROFIT AND ATTENDANCE BONUS in a sum equivalent to 20% of the consolidated wages earned by
such employee during the Financial Year shall be payable in respect of each Financial Year.
(1) The  payment  of  the  said  quantum  of  1 1/2   months  SERVICE  BONUS and the payment of the said
quantum of PROFIT AND ATTENDANCE BONUS shall be conditional on the  Employer  Company
declaring  a dividend  of 12% or more for the Financial Year in respect of which the said  Bonuses  are
payable.
(2) In the  event  of the  dividend  declared  being  less than  12%   then  the  said Bonuses shall be paid
on a pro-rata basis.
(C) A SPECIAL BONUS in a sum equivalent to 8% of  the  total  consolidated wages earned by an employee
during the preceding 12 months  ie. August  to July provided that the dividend declared to the Shareholders
in respect of such Financial Year is between  25% and 35%.

<!-- page 37 -->

37AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(D) A SPECIAL BONUS in a sum equivalent to 8% of the total consolidated wages earned by an employee
during the preceding 12 months ie. August to July provided that the shareholders of the Company are
issued  any Bonus  shares in respect  of that Financial Year.
(E) In the event of one of the SPECIAL BONUSES set out in sub-clauses  (C)  or (D) above is not payable,
then the other  of  the  SPECIAL  BONUS  shall  be increased from 8% to 14% of the total consolidated
wages earned by an employee during the relevant Financial Year.
(F) If the dividend declared under Clause (C) exceeds 35% then the 8% SPECIAL BONUS shall be increased
to 16% of the total consolidated wages earned by an employee during the preceding 12 months ie. August
to July . However, the SPECIAL BONUS shall be a maximum of 16%.
(G) An Attendance Incentive Bonus in a sum equivalent to 1/2 month’s wages of December will be payable in
January to an employee who did not exceed his leave entitlement in the preceding year (January to
December) .
(H) An Attendance Incentive Bonus in a sum equivalent to 1/2  month’s  wages  of December will be payable
in January to an employee who did not utilize his Casual Leave and Sick Leavein the preceding year
(January to December) in addition to the encashment of such leave.
(I) Consolidated wages for purposes of Bonus payment shall mean  the  consolidated wages as set out in the
second Schedule of the Collective Agreement.  An employee who is in the employment of the Company at
least one month before the  dates  of Bonus and ex-gratia payments is entitled to receive such payments.
(J) Good Will Bonus
When an Employee retires at the age of 55 years or before he is entitled to a goodwill bonus subject to the
following terms & conditions.
a. 15 to 20 years of service - 01 month bonus
b. 21 to 25 years of service - 02 months bonus
c. 26 to 30 years of service - 03 months bonus
d. More than 31 years of service - 3.5 months bonus
e. The permissible maximum limit being Rs: 200,000 / =.
f. Minimum no of service  15 years.
g. Deduction to be made for “No Pay” to employees  who exhaust their leave entitlement and the 15
days authorized No-Pay as follows.
Ex: If a person works for  10 years and has proceeded on no pay in one year  Rs: 40,000.00 will be deducted. i.e
Rs: 200,000.00 / 10 years = Rs: 20,000.00 x 02 months = Rs: 40,000.00. unless and otherwise the proceeding on
“No Pay” being unavoidable the final decision of which will be at the discretion of the management.
23. Annual Increments
(1) The Employer shall be entitled to defer, stop or  suspend  the Annual Increment which is granted in April
of  an employee  for irregular attendance or unpunctuality without the necessity of an inquiry  in  the
following instances :
(a) An employee with over 5 years of service exceeding his leave entitlement by 15 days during the
previous Calendar Year.
(b) An employee with over 3 years of service but less than 5 years service exceeding his normal leave
entitlement by 10 days during the previous Calendar Year.

<!-- page 38 -->

38A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(c) An employee with over 1 year of service but less than 3 years of service exceeding his normal leave
entitlement by 5 days during the previous Calendar Year.
(d) An employee with over 6 months’ of service after confirmation not  less than 1 year service exceeding
his normal leave entitlement by 3  days during the previous Calendar Year.
(2) The Employer  shall be entitled to defer,  stop or suspend the Annual  Increment of an Employee as a matter
of punishment for general inefficiency or for any act of misconduct, after the Employee concerned has
been  served  with  a  show cause letter and has been found guilty after due inquiry.
(3) The employer may grant increments to those employees who have reached the maximum scale in the
consolidated wages set out in the second schedule hereto due to the special wage increases given in time
to time not withstanding the fact that he has already, reached the maximum scale.
(4) The Employer may at its sole discretion grant increments to those employees who have reached the
maximum subject to Para 3) above.
24. Warning
If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the employee by
a letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the
warning may be given to the Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses. In the alternative,
the Employer may send the letter of warning to the employee concerned by Registered Post.
25. Suspension
(1) An Employee may be suspended without pay by the Employer -
(a) pending an inquiry to be held by  such  Employer  on  a  charge  of misconduct which warrants
dismissal :
(b) in order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of the business of
the Employer :
(c) as a punishment for misconduct for a period  not  exceeding  seven (7) working  days  after  due
inquiry.)
(2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1) (a) or within twenty four (24) hours hereof the Employer
shall provide the Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension
and thereafter hold an inquiry into the charge or charges in terms of clause 26 hereof.
26. Disciplinary Action
Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then  -
(1) irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 25 hereof or not, the Employee
shall be furnished with  a  show  cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges
of misconduct alleged against such Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not
less than three (3) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation to the charge or charges
preferred.
(2) within three (3) clear working days after the  date of the  show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in
writing to the Employer the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee.  Provided

<!-- page 39 -->

39AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable the Employee  may ask the Employer for an extension
of time within which to furnish the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such
request is made by an Employee to the Employer, the Employer shall  grant  such request for such further
period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(3) if the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee the Employee shall if he
is under suspension  forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the
period of such suspension.
(4) if the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause
notice and such answer or  explanation  is rejected by the Employer, the Employer  shall commence  an
inquiry within ten ( 10) working days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation
to the show cause notice.
(5) after holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings on each of the charges
in the show  cause  notice  and  the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the
Employer fails to make an order except for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in
the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from the conclusion of the inquiry into such
charges, the employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no
inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(6) if the Employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that -
(a) the Employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and
shall subject to the provisions of sub-clause 25(1) (c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due
for the period of suspension irrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be
imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the charges in the show cause notice.
(b) the Employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal  shall  take effect from the date of the
Employee’s suspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such
suspension ;
(c) in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the
Employee, the Employer is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the
matter be referred to the Police or other authorities for further investigations or inquiries and that
the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authorities or if in view of the serious or
involved nature of the charges referred against the Employee the matter had been previously referred
to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such
investigations  or inquiries be awaited, then in either of  such  circumstances  the Employee may
remain suspended without pay.
(7) if in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make an order
under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s
own  seeking within thirty (30) working days from the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee
shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for the period of thirty (30) days from the date of such
suspension  and  to  his full remuneration for the period of suspension in excess of thirty (30) days upto
the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause,
irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(8) in any case where an  Employee  is  suspended  as  provided  herein  the Employer shall make an order
under paragraphs (a) to  (c)  of  sub-clause  6 within ninety  (90)  days of the  date of  suspension  of the
Employee unless  he is prevented from so doing by reason of the Employees own seeking or for reasons

<!-- page 40 -->

40A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
beyond control of the Employer or it is agreed between the Employer and the Union that in the circumstances
of the case the  period  ninety  (90) days be extended for such further time as may be agreed.
(9) the Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub- clause (4) and (5) hereof where
the Employer proposes to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges.
Provided however that if the Union disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the
Employer and requests the holding of an inquiry the Employer shall comply with such request and the
provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then apply subject to the exception that the fact that
the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after receipt of the Employee’s explanation
shall not be material or relevant.
27. Retirement
On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement.
Provided however that an Employee who has retired may, at the discretion of the Employer, be employed after
his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as may be mutually agreed.
28. Termination of Service
(1) Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for work
usually performed by the day, or by the job, or by journey, shall subject to the provisions of  Clause  6
hereof  or unless otherwise expressly stipulated) be deemed  and taken  in law to be a  contract for hire and
service for the period of one month and to be renewable from month to month and shall be deemed and
taken in law to  be  so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given by either party to the other
of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job  or period  such as  causal or temporary work he shall
be informed thereof at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate  on
the completion  of the job or period  or on the failure of the Employee to complete the job  within a
reasonable time.
29. Union Recognition
The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of its members who are employed in any work
place of the Employer. In regard  to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as matters
affecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the work place or the trade  as  a whole the
following provisions shall apply -
(1) When the Union is representative of not less than forty percent (40%) of the employees whose membership
subscription is  not  in  arrears  the Employer will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and
matters and negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not
less than forty percent (40%) of such Employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general
claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with all the Unions competent to make general demands
by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each such Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business  or has more than one work place and the
claim or matter is restricted to one type of business or one work  place  but  is applicable  or capable of
being applicable to other Employees in the service of the Employer the competence  of the Union to make
such claim or raise such matter shall be determined  by reference to the duly qualified members of such
Union in proportion to  the total number of Employees in the service of the Employer in Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 41 -->

41AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the Employer the Union is
competent to make general claims or raise general matters the same shall be determined by a referendum
which shall be held by Department of Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the
Employer and that Union and the parties hereto.
30. Variations of Terms & Conditions of Employment Benefits
(1) The union and its members and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally
agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they will not seek to vary,
alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the
Employees covered and bound by this Agreement, or all or any  of the benefits presently enjoyed by any
of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
2) The Employer agrees with the Union and its members and the Employees covered and bound by this
Agreement that he shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by
the  employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiation under the provisions of sub-clause (1) or (2) may be
resolved by voluntary arbitration but only if  all the parties concerned agree to submit such dispute  or
difference  for settlement by voluntary arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING   THE   FACILITIES   AND   CONCESSIONS   GRANTED   BY   THE   EMPLOYER   TO   THE UNION
(01) Breaches of Collective Agreement
If in the opinion of the Employer the Union commits a breach  of any of the  terms of this Collective Agreement,
then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted
by the Employer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and the same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to
the Employer’s right to restore such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer
may  decide.
(2) Domestic Inquiries
If an Employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause  26 is a member of the Union, the
following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant  to such show cause notice -
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow a member  of such Union (hereinafter referred to
as “Observer”) to be present as  an  Observer without loss of wages for absence from work.
(b) If the Employee who is served with a show cause notice  desires an Observer  to be present at the inquiry
to be held  pursuant  to  such  show  cause  notice, he shall at least forty eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for the commencement of the inquiry submit to the Employer the name of  such Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any question which the person who conducts  the inquiry may ask him, but an
Observer shall not be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or
otherwise partake in the inquiry.

<!-- page 42 -->

42A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be  entitled  to  require  an Observer who obstructs such inquiry
in any manner whatsoever  to withdraw  there from and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such
requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not
vitiate such inquiry, nor the proceedings there at, nor the , findings pursuant  thereto.
(f) The word Observer in this  Clause  shall mean  an Employee  of the Employer  who is a member of the
Branch Union.
(3) Union Meetings
The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union -
(a) In respect of each meeting which the Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, an application for
permission shall be previously made  to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or
more of the under noted conditions -
i) That no person other than an employee in the service of the Employer  shall be present at a meeting
of the Union :
ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the union, the Office Bearers of the parent
Union may, with the previous approval of  the Employer, attend ;
iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers  to ensure that the  terms on which permission to
hold a meeting of such Union is granted, are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the  Union  and  its  Office  Bearers  to  ensure  that  no damage is caused in the
course  of,  or  in  connection  with,  a  meeting  of  the union to the Employer’s  property  or  any  other
persons  at  the  Employer’s premises and the Union shall indemnify the employer and keep the employer
indemnified against any such damage.
(4) Duty Leave
(1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave -
Without prejudice  to the right of the employer  to refuse to grant  permission if, in his discretion, the
exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal, the employer will generally grant permission for not less
than two Office Bearers of the Union -
(a) to be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Department of Labour in
connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer,
Or
(b) to attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals.
without loss of wages for such absence.

<!-- page 43 -->

43AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(2) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade
Union Course or Seminar or Conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is
entitled to annual or other holidays which he wishes to utilise for the purpose.
(5) Check Off
(1) In this clause “Employer” shall mean the Employer bound by this Collective Agreement in whose
establishment the membership of the Union is not less than forty percent (40%) of the  Employees
covered  and  bound  by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall, on the written request of an Employee, deduct from the wages due to such Employee
the current  monthly  Union  dues  as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the
Employee to the Union and remit the amount so deducted  to the Union,  in accordance  with the procedure
and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
(3) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that
effect in the form set out in Form  No.1 hereinafter referred to as an “Authorization” as set out in  the
Second Schedule hereto.
(4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check off at any time by signing a statement
to that effect  in the form  set out in  Form No.2 hereinafter referred to as a “Revocation” as set out in the
Second Schedule hereto.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately
after the date of receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is
cancelled by revocation.
(6) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation
cancelling such authorization.  Provided however -
(a) that the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee
concerned  for failure to  comply with sub-clause (5) or (6) :
(b) that, at his discretion, the Employer shall  be  entitled  not  to  make deductions by way of check off
in any month in which the deductions by way of check off will together with  all  other  deductions
from  the employee’s wages in that month exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth day of each  month  remit the Union dues deducted from the
wages of the Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance
with the tenor of each authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed “Account
Payee”.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the  employees concerned by post in a pre-paid
envelope addressed to the Treasurer of the union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the  Union  shall  promptly  acknowledge  receipt  of  the cheque.
(10) Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf,  as aforesaid,  any sum
other than  the Union  dues actually deducted.

<!-- page 44 -->

44A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(6) Trade Union Action
The Union shall undertake to respect the terms of the Agreement  and not to  seek to alter such terms other than
by negotiation. No strike or other form of Trade Union action could be undertaken.
If the executive committee of the Union is of opinion that certain actions of the employer are vindictive or
detrimental to the interests of the Union, it reserves the right to engage in strike or other form of Trade Union
action. In such an event seven days notice of intended action be given in writing to the employer and the
Commissioner of Labour.
(7) Recoveries due on the Cessation of Employment
The Employer shall be entitled to recover  any outstanding loan  or liability from the employee or the outstanding
amount guaranteed by  him  at  the  time  of another employee taking loan by a set off against any payment such
as terminal wages, terminal benefits,  other than the amount payable in terms of the  payment of Gratuity Act,
refund of Thrift fund, encashment of unutilized leave etc., due to such employee at the time of cessation of
employment.
(8) Grievance Procedure
(a) Any Worker is free to make representations to the Management in respect  of an individual grievance,
dispute or other matter and the procedure for settling the same is as follows :
(1)  In the first instance, the matter shall be discussed with the Plant Assistant or Sectional Head as the
case may be
(2) If the matter is not settled by the Plant Assistant or Sectional Head, the Worker may then together
with a Branch Union Committee Member discuss the matter with the Personnel Superintendent.
(3) In the event of the matter not being satisfactorily settled at  Stage  (ii) the employee may together
with  a  Branch  Union  representative  discuss the matter  with  the  Human  Resources Manager.
(b) The Branch Union is free to make representations to the Employer in respect of any grievance or other
matter affecting the Workers concerned  and bound  by this agreement generally and the procedure for
settling the same shall be as follows :
(i) The Branch Union shall submit the matter in writing to  the  Human Resources Manager for settlement.
(ii) In the event of the matter not being sa tisfactorily settled at Stage (i)  above, the Branch Union may
make an appeal to the Director or Joint Managing Directors.
(c) In  the  event  of  the  matter  not  being  satisfactorily  settled  at  Stage  (b)  above  the  Branch  Union  may
take  up  the  matter  with  the  Parent  Union   and  it  will  be settled  at the Management  and Parent Union
Meeting.
(d) In event the matter has not been satisfactorily settled at Stage (c) the Branch Union may with the Parent
Union make an appeal to the Board of Directors of the Company.
(e) In the event of the matter has not been satisfactorily settled at Stage (d) the Parent Union may on behalf
of the Branch Union make an appeal to the Commissioner of Labour.

<!-- page 45 -->

45AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
FORM   No.  1
Name  of Employer :
AUTHORISATION
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the Collective  Agreement  effecting Employees  employed  in  a manual  or
labouring  capacity in the ...........................................................Trade and  bearing No........................................of  199   and
I desire to avail myself  of   the facility for check off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a
member  of the Union,  please  deduct  from  my wages each  month  a sum of Rupees...............................
............................................(Rs. ) in respect of my current monthly membership  dues  to  the  said  Union
and  remit  the same to the said Union on my behalf.  The  first  payment  should  please  be  made  from my wages next
due immediately  following the  date hereof.
 .................................. ................ ..................
(Date of Signing) (Signature  of  Employee)
(Full  name  of Employee)
RECEIVED   ON      ......................................................................................................        .
(To be filled by  Employer)
FORM NO. 2
Name of Employer :
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages  any  further  membership
dues in  favour of.......................................................................Union with  effect from the wages next  due to me immediately
following the  date  hereof.
 .................................. ................ ..................
(Date of Signing) (Signature  of  Employee)
(Full  Name  of Employee)
RECEIVED    ON   ...................................................................................................

<!-- page 46 -->

46A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
(To be filled by  Employer )
PART III
CONTAINING    DEFINITIONS   OF   CERTAIN    WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject or context the following words shall have the meaning
set opposite to  them-
Words Meanings
Branch Union
Check Off
Dispute
Employee (for convenience sometimes referred
to as “he” or its grammatical variations)
Employer (for convenience sometimes referred
to as “he” or its grammatical variations)
Industrial Disputes Act
Normal Incremental Date
Union  or Unions
Wage
Week
Year
Words importing the masculine gender shall  include the   famine.
Words importing the singular number  shall  include the plural  and vice  versa.
The  Branch  Union  of  a Union  or Unions covered
and bound by this Collective Agreement.
The act of the Employer deducting, at the request of
the Union, subscription payable to the Union by an
Employee from the latter’s pay with his   concurrence.
Shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  in the Industrial
Disputes Act.
An Employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Subject to the provisions of Clause  5  of Part  II hereof
the  Employer  bound  by this  Agreement.
The Industrial Disputes Act, No.43 of 1950.
The date on which an Employee would normally receive
an increment.
A Union  or the Unions  covered  and  bound by this
Collective  Agreement.
The monthly wage  according to the  scales of consoli-
dated wages in the Second Schedule hereto.
The period between midnight on any Saturday night and
midnight on the Succeeding  Saturday night.
A  continuous  period  of  twelve (12)  months.

<!-- page 47 -->

47AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
SKILLED SKILLED SEMI UN
GRADE A SKILLED SKILLED
STARTING 17,216.00 17,216.00 17,151.00 17,144.00
INCREASE 4,000.00 4,000.00 4,200.00 4,000.00
--------------- -------------- ------------------ --------------------- ---------------
1 21,216.00 21,216.00 21,351.00 21,144.00
2 21,716.00 21,616.00 21,631.00 21,344.00
3 22,216.00 22,016.00 21,911.00 21,544.00
4 22,716.00 22,416.00 22,191.00 21,744.00
5 23,216.00 22,816.00 22,471.00 21,944.00
6 23,716.00 23,216.00 22,751.00 22,144.00
7 24,216.00 23,616.00 23,031.00 22,344.00
8 24,716.00 24,016.00 23,311.00 22,544.00
9 25,216.00 24,416.00 23,591.00 22,744.00
10 25,716.00 24,816.00 23,871.00 22,944.00
11 26,216.00 25,216.00 24,151.00 23,144.00
12 26,716.00 25,616.00 24,431.00 23,344.00
13 27,216.00 26,016.00 24,711.00 23,544.00
14 27,716.00 26,416.00 24,991.00 23,744.00
15 28,216.00 26,816.00 25,271.00 23,944.00
16 28,716.00 27,216.00 25,551.00 24,144.00
17 29,216.00 27,616.00 25,831.00 24,344.00
18 29,716.00 28,016.00 26,111.00 24,544.00
19 30,216.00 28,416.00 26,391.00 24,744.00
20 30,716.00 28,816.00 26,671.00 24,944.00
21 31,216.00 29,216.00 26,951.00 25,144.00
22 31,716.00 29,616.00 27,231.00 25,344.00
23 32,216.00 30,016.00 27,511.00 25,544.00
24 32,716.00 30,416.00 27,791.00 25,744.00
25 33,216.00 30,816.00 28,071.00 25,944.00
26 33,716.00 31,216.00 28,351.00 26,144.00
27 34,216.00 31,616.00 28,631.00 26,344.00
28 34,716.00 32,016.00 28,911.00 26,544.00
29 35,216.00 32,416.00 29,191.00 26,744.00
30 35,716.00 32,816.00 29,471.00 26,944.00
31 36,216.00 33,216.00 29,751.00 27,144.00
30
X
500
30
X
400
30
X
280
30
X
200

<!-- page 48 -->

48A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 26.01.2021
In Witness of the above Agreement the following persons have signed this AGREEMENT  on behalf  of the parties
hereto at Colombo on  17th May  2019.
For and on Behalf  of For and on Behalf  of
Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya The Built Element Limited
Leslie Devendra S. Ganesan      S. Hari Darshan,
General Secretary, Joint Managing Directors
D. M. L. Renuka, A. Dnyanaranjan,
President, Human Resources Manager.
Branch Union.
A. G . Premarathne,
Secretary,
Branch Union.
R. A. D. Nayanajith,
Organizer,
Branch Union.
P. S. Peiris,
Treasurer,
Branch Union.
02 - 98
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA