

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 9.25 Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June  03, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 31st May, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
ACT,  No.  15  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 15 of 2005
1
Short title.
2 —PL 000190 — 5,650 (03/2005)
[Certfied on 31st May, 2005]
L. D. — O. 56/2004.
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  EXTENSION  OF  THE  PERIOD  OF  DETENTION  OF
PERSONS  ARRESTED  WITHOUT  A  W ARRANT  IN ORDER  TO  FACILITA TE THE
CONDUCT  OF  INVESTIGA TIONS; FOR  DISPENSING  WITH  THE  CONDUCT  OF
THE  NON -SUMMARY  INQUIRY  IN CERTAIN  CASES ; TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE
TAKING  OF  DEPOSITIONS  OF  WITNESSES  FOR  THE  PROSECUTION ; AND  TO
MAKE  PROVISION  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL
THERETO
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act may be cited as the Code of Criminal Procedure
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 15 of 2005.
2. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 other than the
provisions of section 43(
A ) of that Act, any peace officer shall
not detain in custody or otherwise confine a person arrested
without a warrant for a longer period than under all the
circumstances of the case is reasonable, and such period shall
not exceed twenty - four hours exclusive of the time necessary
for the journey from the place of arrest to the Magistrate :
Provided that where the arrest is in relation to an offence
as is specified in the Schedule to this Act, such period of
detention in police custody may, on production before him
of the person arrested and on a certificate filed by a police
officer not below the rank of the Assistant Superintendent of
Police submitted prior to the expiration of the said period of
twenty - four hours, to the effect that it is necessary to detain
such person for the purpose of further investigations, be
extended upon an order made in that behalf by the Magistrate
for a further period not exceeding twenty - four hours, so
however that the aggregate period of detention shall not
exceed forty-eight hours.
Period of
detention of
person arrested not
to be more than
twenty - four
hours or forty-
eight hours in
certain cases.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 15 of 2005
3. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No 15 of 1979, where there are
aggravating circumstances or circumstances that give rise to
public disquiet in connection with the commission of an
offence, specified in the Second Schedule to the Judicature
Act, No. 2 of 1978, it shall be lawful for the  Attorney-General
to forward indictment directly to the High Court.
(2) The Attorney-General may in forwarding indictment
directly in terms of subsection (1) proceed to do so ex mero
motu or upon receipt of the relevant record from the
Magistrate.
4. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 where there are
aggravating circumstances or circumstances that give rise to
public disquiet in connection with the commission of an
offence specified in the Second Schedule to the Judicature
Act, No. 2 of 1978, the Magistrate shall not hold a preliminary
inquiry in terms of Chapter XV of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, and shall forthwith forward
the record of the proceedings to the Attorney-General and
thereafter abide by the instructions of the Attorney-General.
(2) Upon receipt of the record of the proceedings by the
Magistrate in terms of subsection (1), the Attorney- General
shall —
(a) where he is of the opinion that there are aggravating
circumstances or circumstances that give rise to
public disquiet in connection with the commission
of the aforesaid offence, forward indictment directly
to the High Court;
(b) where he is of the opinion that the circumstances do
not warrant the forwarding of direct indictment to
the High Court, return the record to the Magistrate
within thirty days of the receipt of the same and
direct that a preliminary inquiry be held in terms of
Chapter XV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979.
Direct indictment
in case of offence
committed in
aggravating
circumstances.
Magistrate to
forward record to
Attorney-
General.

<!-- page 4 -->

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 15 of 2005
3
 
(3) If the Magistrate proceeds to hold a preliminary
inquiry in terms of Chapter XV of the aforesaid Code, the
Attorney-General shall, call for the record of the proceedings,
for the purpose of considering forwarding indictment directly
to the High Court. In such an event the Magistrate shall
forthwith suspend proceedings and forward the record of the
proceedings to the Attorney-General and shall thereafter abide
by the instructions of the Attorney-General.
5. Any proceedings in terms of the provisions of this Act
shall be concluded within a period of ninety days from the
date of the commencement of proceedings under Chapter
XV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.
6. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter
XV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979,
in the course of holding of an inquiry under the aforesaid
Chapter, the following provisions shall apply to the taking
of statements of persons who know the facts and circumstances
of the case.
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (11) the
Magistrate shall read out, or cause to be read out to every
witness produced against the accused, in the presence and
hearing of the accused, the statement made by the witness in
the course of the investigation conducted in terms of Chapter
XI of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
and shall ask the witness whether the statement is an accurate
record of what he had stated to the police.
(3) (a) If the witness states, in response to an inquiry made
of him under subsection (1), that the statement is an accurate
record of what he had stated to the police, the Magistrate
shall record that fact. The Magistrate shall permit the witness,
if the witness so desires, to make such additions or alterations
to his original statement. Every such addition or alteration
shall be recorded.
Proceedings to be
terminated within
ninety days.
Depositions.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 15 of 2005
(b)   The Maigstrate shall not permit any cross examination
of the witness by the accused or his pleader, but the Magistrate
may put to the witness, any clarification required by the
accused or his pleader of any matter arising from the statement
made by the witness in the course of the investigation, or any
additions or alterations to his original statement if any, and
may put to the witness any clarification which the Magistrate
himself may require of any such matter. Every clarification
so made shall be recorded :
Provided that having considered the nature of the material
contained in the statement of a witness made to the police,
the prosecution may tender the witness for cross examination
by the accused or his pleader.
(4) The Magistrate shall thereafter read out or cause to
be read out to the witness, the statement made by the witness
to Court affirming the accuracy of the statement made by
him in the course of the investigation and the clarifications if
any made by him under subsection (2), and additions or
alterations to his original statement if any, made  by him
under subsection (3), and shall require the witness to swear or
affirm to the truth of the matters recorded.
(5)  (a)  If on the other hand, the witness states in response
to an inquiry made of him under subsection (1), that the
statement is not, in its entirety or in part, an accurate record
of what he had stated to the police, the Magistrate shall permit
the witness to give an account of the circumstances relating
to the offence, or as the case may be, to make such additions
or alterations to his original statement as the witness may
wish to make.
(b)  The Magistrate shall not permit any cross-examination
of the witness by the accused or his pleader but the Magistrate
may put to the witness, any clarification required by the
accused or his pleader of any matter arising from the account
given, or additions or alterations made, by the witness or
may put to the witness any clarification that the Magistrate
himself may require of any such matter :

<!-- page 6 -->

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 15 of 2005
5
Provided that having considered the nature of the material
contained in the statement of a witness made to the police,
the prosecution may tender the witness for cross examination
by the accused or his pleader.
(c)  The Magistrate shall record the account given, or the
additions or alterations made by the witness under paragraph
(a) and any clarifications made by the witness under paragraph
(b), and read out or cause to be read out the same to the
witness and shall require the witness to swear or affirm to the
truth of the matters so recorded.
(6) Before a witness is produced against the accused the
Magistrate shall permit the accused or his pleader to peruse
in open court, the statement made by that witness to the
police in the course of the investigation.
(7) The Magistrate shall sign, and shall cause the witness
to sign, a certified copy of the statement made by the witness
to the  police in the course of the investigation and shall
cause the same to be filed of record. The copy so filed shall
for all purposes form part of the record of the inquiry.
(8) The Magistrate shall not summon an expert witness or
a police officer but shall cause the  report of such expert
witness or the affidavit of such police officer as the case may
be to be produced and filed of record :
Provided that the Magistrate may, for reasons to be recorded
and in the case of an expert witness, with the prior sanction of
the Attorney-General, summon an expert witness or police
officer to be present in Court for examination.
(9) Where an expert witness or a police officer appears in
court in response to summons issued on him under subsection
(8), the Magistrate shall not permit any cross examination of
such expert witness or police officer by the accused or his
pleader  but may put to such expert witness or police officer,
any clarifications that the accused or his pleader may require,
of any matter arising from the report of the expert witness or
the affidavit of the police officer, as the case may be, or from

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 15 of 2005
the examination of such expert witness or police officer, as
the case may be, and the Magistrate may himself put to the
witness  any clarification that  he may require of any such
matter. Every clarification so made shall be recorded.
(10) A statement made by an expert witness or police
officer and the deposition made by a witness tendered for
cross examination under this section, shall be deemed to be
admissible in evidence in terms of section 33 of the Evidence
Ordinance (Chapter 14).
(11) (a) Where the accused-
(i) is absconding or has left the island ; or
(ii) is unable to attend or remain in court by reason of
illness and has consented either to the
commencement or continuance of the inquiry in his
absence, such inquiry may commence or continue
without any prejudice to him ; or
(iii) by reason of his conduct in court is obstructing or
impeding the progress of the inquiry,
the Magistrate may, if satisfied of these facts, commence and
proceed or continue with the inquiry in the absence of the
accused.
(b) An Attorney- at- Law may appear for such absent
accused.
(c) The inquiry shall proceed as far as is practicable in
accordance with the provisions of this  Act except that the
provisions of section 416 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall not apply to the depositions recorded
where there is a trial on indictment in the High Court, whether
the accused is present in the High Court or not.
(12) The statement made by a witness to the police in the
course of the investigation together with, as the case may be,
his statement and clarifications, if any, recorded under
subsection (3) or the additions, alterations and clarifications

<!-- page 8 -->

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 15 of 2005
7
made and recorded under subsection (4) or the account
given and recorded under subsection (5), shall be regarded
for the purposes of this Act, as the deposition of that
witness.
(13) Every witness produced against the accused at the
inquiry shall be entitled to be represented by an Attorney-at
Law.
(14) If after the conclusion of the procedure set out above,
the Magistrate does not consider that the case should be
dealt with in accordance with the provisions of section 153
of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, the
Magistrate shall read the charge to the accused and explain
the nature thereof in ordinary language and inform him that
he has a right to call witnesses and, if he so desires to give
evidence on his own behalf.
(15) The provisions of Chapter XV of the Code of  Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall mutatis mutandis apply
to any preliminary inquiry held under the provisions of this
Act.
7. The provisions of this Act shall be in operation for
a period of two years from the date of its coming into
operation.
8. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Duration of the
Act.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 15 of 2005
SCHEDULE (Section 2)
Abetment of an offence set out in the
Schedule, if the act abetted is
committed Section 102 - Penal Code
Conspiracy for the abetment or
commission of any offence set out in
the Schedule. Section 113B - Penal Code
Murder Section 296 - Penal Code
Culpable Homicide not amounting to
murder Section 297 - Penal Code
Attempt to commit murder Section 300 - Penal Code
Kindapping or abduction to commit
murder Section 355 - Penal Code
Kidnapping or abduction with intent
to wrongfully confine a person Section 356 - Penal Code
Kidnapping or abduction with intent
to wrongfully subject person to grievous
hurt Section 358 - Penal Code
Concealing or keeping in confinement
a kidnapped person Section 359 - Penal Code
Rape Section 364 - Penal Code
Theft, preparation having being made
to cause death &c,. Section 371 - Penal Code
Robbery with attempt to cause death or
grievous hurt Section 383 - Penal Code
Attempt to commit robbery when armed
with deadly weapons Section 384 - Penal Code
Attempt to commit any of the above
offences Section 490 - Penal Code
An offence committed with the use of
explosives, an offensive weapon or
a gun.
Explosive  as defined in the
Explosives Act (Chapter
183); offensive weapon as
defined in the Offensive
Weapons Act, No. 18 of 1966
and a Gun as defined in the
Firearms Ordinance (Chapter
182).

<!-- page 10 -->

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 15 of 2005
9
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.