

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2020
w;s úfYI
wxl 2186$25 - 2020 cQ,s ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2020'07'30
No. 2186/25-  THURSDAY   JULY   30,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
RULES MADE UNDER ARTICLE 154 C READ WITH ARTICLE 154 F OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND SECTION 19 (5) OF THE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
ACT, NO. 42 OF 1987
I, Roshan Goonetileke, the Governor of the Western Province, hereby notify the publication of “The Rules of Procurement
Activities related to the Fund of the Western Provincial Council” made in terms of the powers vested on me under Aricle
154 C read with Article 154 F of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Section 19 (5) of the
Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
R
OSHAN GOONETILEKE,
RWP VSV USP,
Phd (Hon.) IFM (Sri Lanka) ndc, psc,
Marshal of the Air Force,
The Governor,
Western Province.
At the Governor’s Office, Western Province,
Situated at the Western Provincial Council Office,
Complex, Battaramulla,
on 30th July, 2020.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  5078— 77 (07/2020)

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2020
2A
Rules
1. These Rules shall be enacted to regulate procurement activities of the Statutory Authorities appropriated to the
Fund of the Western Provincial Council and from the Fund of the Western Provincial Council, to improve the
transparency of the procurement process related to the Fund of the Western Provincial Council and to provide
more beneficial and positive procurement the people of the province without any delay.
2. These rules may be cited as “The Rules of Procurement Activities related to the Fund of the Western Provincial
Council”.
3. I hereby prescribe that the Directives and Guidelines of Procurement Activities of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and amendments made in that regard from time to time, shall be related to the procurements made under
the Funds relevant for the Statutory Authorities appropriated to the Fund of the Western Provincial Council and
appropriated from that Fund, subject to the provisions set forth under these Rules and with the minor changes
accepted by the Governor from time to time.
4. (1.) The Procurement Committees to be operated in relation to procurement under Statutory Authorities under
the purview of the Western Provincial Council and appropriated to and from the Fund of the Western
Provincial Council and granting of relevant authority to each of the Committees shall be as follows:
Type of the Procurement Committee Granting of Authority
a. Procurement Committee appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Western
Cabinet of Ministers of the Western Province Province
b. Chief Secretary’s Procurement Committee Chief Secretary of the Western Province
c. Ministry Procurement Committee Chief Accounting Officer
d. Departmental Procurement Committee Chief Accounting Officer
e. Project Procurement Committee Chief Acco unting Officer
f. Regional Procurement Committee Accounting Officer
(2.) Following Procurement Committees may be operated on the authority granted by the Chief Secretary to ease
the duties and the functions of the Deputy Chief Secretary in charge of the Engineering subject of the
Western Provincial Council.
Type of the Procurement Committee Granting of Authority
a. Chief Secretary’s Procurement Committee Chief Secretary of the Western Province
b. Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Deputy Chief Secretary(Engineering) of the
Western Province
c. Building Director’s Procurement Committee Director of Buildings of the Western
Province
d. Regional Engineer’s Procurement Committee Director of Buildings of the Western
Province
(3.) Appointing of all Procurement Committees, except for the Procurement Committee appointed by the Cabinet
of Ministers from the Procurement Committees mentioned under Sub section (1) above, shall be by the Chief
Accounting Officer relevant for the Fund of the Western Provincial Council.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2020
(4.) The appointment of the Procurement Committees mentioned under sub-section (2) above and the Chief
Secretary’s Procurement Committee shall be made by the Chief Secretary by him/her self and appointment of
other Procurement Committees shall be made by the Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering), with the
concurrence of the Chief Secretary of the Western Province.
(5.) The Procurement Committees appointed under a Statutory Authority established under the statutes enacted
by the Western Provincial Council shall act in accordance with a Departmental Procurement Committee
appointed under sub-section (1) and a Regional Procurement Committee appointed as appropriately.
5. Each procurement entity involved in the procurement, shall conduct the process from identification of requirements
related to the pre-procurement process, planning, preparation of specifications, invitation for bids and awarding
the contract, under the Control Unit operating under each entity and the process from contract awarding to
contract termination, including contract management, under the Financial Unit operating under each procurement
entity.
6. When appointing a procurement committee for procurement, where the cost value of the procurement exceeds
Rs. 10 million, a simultaneous committee that consists of three extraneous members should be appointed by the
entity to regulate the relevant procurement process.
7. (1) For all procurements that are not related to Western Provincial Cabinet of Ministers Procurement, but the
total cost of procurement is over Rs. 10 million, the Procurement entity shall report the following matters
relating to the Procurement to the Chief Accounting Officer of the Fund of the Western Provincial Council
and obtain approval for it prior to calling for bids.
(a) The manner in which the provisions have been made for the relevant procurement.
(b) Compliance with the Annual Procurement Plan
(c) Proposed Procurement Scheme.
(d) In the case the procurement is with regard to a project, the facts that the feasibility study for that
project has been completed and all the details related to the successful completion of the project
have been completed.
( 2 ) The Chief Accounting Officer shall furnish details to the Provincial Cabinet on matters
under sub-section (1) above, when making a procurement relevant to the Cabinet of Ministers.
8. No procurement entity shall make procurement outside the Annual Procurement Plan unless it has obtained
approval of the Chief Secretary after furnishing details to the Chief Secretary on the necessity of making the
procurement.
9. Prior to making the relevant payment for each bill related to a payment for procurement, the parties nominated for
the acquisition must have certified that the relevant payment is in full compliance with the specifications, the
estimate and the procurement agreement by all means.
10. (1) Every officer involved in the procurement process under each procurement entity is responsible for the
procurement entity in respect of the following matters.
(a) Every step of the procurement is in accordance with these Rules and Procurement Guidelines of the
Government,
(b) Necessary communication shall be maintained with all parties involved in the procurement process,
(c) Coordination of Technical Evaluation Committees regarding preparation of invitation, reviewing
and approving, where pre-eligibility test for procurement is applicable,

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2020
4A
(d) Coordination of Technical Evaluation Committees regarding drafting and reviewing of specifications
and bid documents,
(e) Compilation of data and information for the evaluation report.
(f) Invitation for bids.
(g) Facilitating meetings of Procurement Committees, Technical Evaluation Committees and distributing
reports related to them.
(h) Responding to the requests of the Procurement Committees and the Technical Evaluation Committees.
(2) Each officer involved in the payment process for the procurement under each procurement entity shall be
liable to the procurement entity in respect of the following matters;
(a) That sufficient facts have been presented to the effect that the process has been properly carried
out from the awarding of the contract of procurement to the conclusion of the contract including
management.
(b) That the competent authority has certified the legitimacy of the payment and the termination of the
relevant contract.
(c) Expenditure related to payment is in accordance with the cost estimate included in the contract
agreement.
(d) Compliance of relevant payments with the terms of the conditions of the agreement.
11. The Procurement Guidelines and Directives of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Instructions
issued in that regard from time to time, Formats prescribed, Financial limits that shall be made applicable for each
Procurement Committee in relation to the procurement made under these Rules shall be applicable with necessary
amendments subjected to the approval of the Governor.
12. Appeals of those who are dissatisfied with a decision regarding the award of contracts relevant to any procurement
made by Statutory Authorities appropriated to and from the Fund of the Western Provincial Council shall be
submitted to the Governor in accordance with the Procurement Directives of the Government and the appeals
made as such shall be resolved taking in to consideration the observations of a board specifically appointed for
that purpose by the Governor. Further, all provisions with regard to appeals under the Procurement Directives of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, shall be considered subject to the provisions of this Article.
13. In these Rules unless the text otherwise requires;
“The province” means the Western Province.
‘The Governor” means the Governor of the Western Province.
“The Chief Secretary” means the Chief Secretary of the Western Province.
“The Chief Accounting Officer” means the same as given under the Western Provincial Council Financial Rules.
“The Accounting Officer” means the same as given under the Western Provincial Council Financial Rules.
14. In an inconsistency between Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of these Rules, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
08 - 309
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.