

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2018
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
wxl 2088$47 – 2018 iema;eïn¾ ui 12 jeks nodod – 2018'09'12
No. 2088/47 – WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Resource  Centre  Draft  Statute  No.  01  of  2018  of  the  Central  Provincial  Council
I, do hereby notify to the General Public to express their views and suggestions regarding the above mentioned Draft Statute,
to enact within the Central Province. It is hereby notified that the Draft Statute is to be tabled in the Central Provincial Council
after 10 days of publication of this notification. If anyone have an intention to present any views and suggestions regarding
the matters contained therein, it is hereby announced to forward them in written form within 10 days of this notification to the
address given below.
SARATH EKANAYAKE,
Chief Ministry and Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Law and Order, Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Manpower, Education, Cultural Affairs, Tourism, Lands,
Co-operative Development, Trade and Commerce, Food Supplies and
Distributional Affairs and Investment Co-ordination
of the Central Province.
Central Province Chief Ministry and Ministry of Local Government,
Provincial Council Complex,
Pallekele,
Kundasale.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – PG4221 – 107 (09/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2018
CENTRAL  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Resource Centre Statute No. 01 of 2018 of the Central Provincial Council
A statute to provide for the establishment of a Resource Centre and make Consequential Provisions for the
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto for the uplift of competencies and productivity of the
Local Authorities in the Central Province, development of human resources targeting the Peoples’
Representatives and the management staff of the local authorities, coordinating the matters related to
access knowledge of information technology required by the local authorities and implementation of
development measures related to the human resource of the other Government and private institutions
thereto.
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Central Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka as follows:–
1. This Statute may be cited as the Statute for the establishment of Central Province Resource Centre
of Local Authorities No. 01 of 2018, hereinafter referred to as the Resource Centre and shall come into
operation from the date of receiving the accent of the Governor of the Central Province.
PART I
Establishment of the Local Government Resource Centre
2. This Resource Centre may be cited and known as the Local Government Resource Centre for the
purpose of carrying out the objects and functions referred in this Statute.
3. Hereinafter referred Officer in charge of the Centre shall be the Director of the Centre and shall
appointed by the Governor with the recommendation of the Minister in charge and he shall be an
officer of the Executive Grade in the approved cadre.
4. For the purpose of implementing the objects of the Centre, the Commissioner shall attach the
working staff from the approved cadre of the Department staff.
5. The objects of the Centre shall be,
(1) To transfer the Local Authorities of Central Province the institutions providing productive
and competent service to the public through the peoples representatives and the management
staff of the local authortities empowering their knowledge, skills and attitudes.
(2) To implement empowering programmes regarding Local Government making awareness of
active participation of the public and peoples’ organizations.
(3) To develop the capacities of the Local Authorities through coordination and obtaining finance
and technical contributions from the Government institutions, Provincial Council, national
and international states, local and international Non Government Organizations, institutions,
private sectors and individuals for the development of Local Government sector in the Province,
according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
(4) To function as a sharing centre of knowledge related to the Local Government in the local
authorities, Provincial, national and international levels.
(5) To provide facilities on request from the external institutions on human resource development.
6. The Centre shall have the powers to,
Introduction.
Short title and
date of functions.
Objectives of the
Centre.
Powers of the
Centre

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2018
3A
(1) Control the staff of the Resource Centre of the Local Government Institutions.
(2)  Regular maintenance of accounts of the Resource Centre of the Local Government Institutions.
(3) Presentation of all account reports of the Resource Centre of the Local Government Institutions.
(4) Acquiring assets and responding assets of the Resource Centre of the Local Government
Institutions.
(5) Entering in to agreements among external bodies relating to the activities of the Resource
Centre of the Local Government Institutions.
7. The Centre shall execute functions such as,
(1) Provide technical knowledge and training on Information Technology to all Local Authorities,
Assistant Commissioner’s office and the Department of Local Government of the Central
Province to practice the Information Technology at a maximum level.
(2) Organize and conduct various courses for the develoment of Local Governement field in the
Province.
(3) Collect information and implementation of decisions taken by the Board of Management.
(4) Create coordination between Management Committee and the Advisory Committee.
(5) Generate income sources through providing services and conducting training programmes.
(6) Levy of charges from the clients for the registration in the Resource Centre.
8. A Management Committee shall be established (hereinafter) referred to as the ‘Committee’) for
controlling, operation and making supervision of the activities of the Centre.
(1) The Management Committee shall consist of the following officially nominated members:
(a) Secretary to the Ministry in charge or an officer nominated by him.
(b) Commissioner
(c) Assistant Commissioner of the Kandy, Matale and Nuwara Eliya Districts.
(d) Assistant Commissioner of Local Government (Departmental level)
(e) Director
9. The Secretary to the Ministry shall be the Chairman of the Committee. If the Secretary nominate an
officer, then the Commissioner shall be the Chairman of the Committee and the Director shall be the
Secretary of the Committee.
10. The Management Committee shall have the powers and functions to;
(1) Make all administrative decisions to achieve its goals and preparation, implementation, feedback
programmes and make supervisions of development plans of the Centre.
(2) Take all measures required for the development of the Centre.
(3) Decide the ways of utilizing funds to achieve the goals of the Centre.
(4) Seek advices from the Advisory Board when needed and function appropriate.
Management
committee.
Chairman and
the Secretary to
the Committee.
Powers and
functions of the
Committee.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2018
11. The Committee shall meet at least once in two months.
12. The quorum for any meeting shall be four menbers of the Management Committee.
13. (1) There shall be an Advisory Committee nominated by the Minister hereinafter referred to as the
Advisory Committee to execute the duties of the Management Committee shall consist of
members:
Officially nominated:
(a) Chief Secretary to the Central Province.
(b) Secretary to the Chief Ministry of the Central Province.
(c) Commissioner of Local Government.
Nominated by the Minister in charge of Local Governement subject:
(a) One of the Mayors of the Municipal Council.
(b) One of the Chairman of the Central Province.
(c) Two Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha Councils representing Central Province
Pradeshiya Sabha Councils.
(2) The Chief Secretary shall be the Chairman of the Committee and the Secretary to the Committee
shall be the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of Local Governement.
(3) The Advisory Board shall hold office for the three years.
(4) The membership falls vacant due to following situations.
(a) Death of a member of the Advisory Committee, resignation of the post or abolishment of
the post.
(b) Any member holding membership in the Advisory Committee may be vacated any time
from his office by prior notice in writing by the Minister.
14. The Chief Minister may determine the remuneration that may be paid to members of the Committee,
authorized by the Governor.
Part - II
Finance and Account activities of the Resource Centre of the Local Government
15. (1) As per Orders of the Provincial Treasury, a separate account shall be maintained and there shall
be credited the receipt to that account.
(a) All such sums of money as may  be voted from time to time by the Provincial Council for
the use of th e Centre.
(b) All such sums of money as may be received from Government and  Non Government
organizations for the Purpose for Acheiving the goals of this Statute.
(c) All such sums of moneycontributions received from the Local Government Institutions.
Meetings of the
Committee.
Quorum of the
Committee
Advisory
Committee.
Payment of
remuneration.
Finance
Activities.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2018
5A
(d) All such sums of money collected and charged on performing duties of the Centre.
(e) All such grants and contributions received  by the centre.
(2) The fund required for the performance of duties shall be utilized according to the decision of
Management Committee.
(3) The financial year shall be commended from first day of the  month January and ended  in the
Thirty  first day of  the month in December of the year.
(4) The income and Expenditure Account, Balance Sheet and Annual  Account Statement  including
all Transactions shall be prepared  and the accounts reports shall be tabled to the Provincial
Council by the Minister before the thirty first day of the month of March in every year.
16. Activities and accounts of the Centre shall be  audited  by the Auditor General.
17. The Centre shall be treated as a specified Centre scheduled under the Bribery Act and shall be act
according to the provisions of the Act.
18. (1) The Minister has the power to enact necessary regulations for the purpose of carrying out
directions for achieving the objective of the Centre.
(2) Every regulation to be formed, shall be published in the Gazette by the Minister and shall be
tabled to the Provincial Council within one month of such publication in the Gazette.
(3) Any rule not approved by the Provincial council shall not prejudice the validity of any activity
previously done or any Proceedings commenceds commence thereunder and shall be treated
null and void and such date of effective should be notified in the Gazette.
19. Contravening any of the provisions of this Statute is an offence and any person willfully obstruct
any officer of the Centre in the performance of any of his function or in the exercise of any power
vested on him under this Statute shall be guilty or an offence. When convicted in a court of Law
having jurisdiction shall imposable a fine of Rupees no exceeding ten thousand or six month
imprisonment or the fine and imprisonment.
20. In the event of any discrepancy arising between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this Statute,
the Sinhala text shall be deemed final.
21. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise require,
The provincial Council means the Central Province Council.
The Governor means the provincial Governor  of Central Province.
The Minister means the Minister in charge the subject of Local Government.
The Secretary means the Secretary to the subject of the Ministry of Local Government of the Central
Province.
The Commissioner means the Commissioner of Local Government  of the Central Province.
The Department means the Department of Local Government of the Central Province.
The Advisory Committee means the Advisory Committee of the Resource Centre.
09 - 756
Other aids and
grants.
Financial Year.
Account
statements.
Auditing.
Scheduled under
Bribery Act
Provisions.
Minister enact
necessary
regulations.
Guilty and
offence.
Interpretation.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.