

<!-- page 1 -->

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
 EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2423$18 – 2025 fmnrjdß ui 13 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2025'02'13
No. 2423/18 – THURSDAY, FEBRUARY   13, 2025
NOTIFICATION MADE UNDER ARTICLE  154 c AND SUB- SECTION  19(5) OF PROVINCIAL 
COUNCILS ACT, N o. 42 OF 1987 READ WITH ARTICLE  154 f OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AS per the powers vested in me under Article 154 c and Sub-section 19(5) of Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 read 
with Article 154 f of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, I, Hanif Yusoof, the  Governor  of  
Western  Province  do  announce that rules for formulation and implementation of development plans relevant to the Western 
Provincial  Council Fund are hereby declared .
 Hൺඇංൿ Yඎඌඈඈൿ, 
 Governor, 
 Western Province.
At Governor’s Oﬃ  ce, Western Province,
Located in the Western Provincial Council Building, 
Battaramulla.
07th of February , 2025.
1. These rules will be enforced to regulate the criteria releva nt to formulation and implementation of development plans 
for certain ﬁ nancial year relevant to the Provincial Council Fund and to al locate provisions to repeal the rules relevant 
to formulation and implementation of development plans relevant  to the Western Provincial Council Fund published 
by the Extraordinary Gazette Paper No. 2190/25 dated 25th August 2020 of the Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri 
Lanka and amended from time to time.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG 7028 – 07 (02/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
2. These rules shall be cited as Rules relating to Formulation and Implementation of Development Plans relevant to the 
Western Provincial Council Fund, No. 01 of 2025.
3. It is hereby ordered that each provincial ministry of the We stern Province shall conform to the following stated criteria 
when annual development plan and the action plan under Provinci al Development Financial Source of the Western 
Provincial Fund are formed for a ﬁ nancial year.
 (1) At the time of forming the annual development plan relevant to  the  Western Provincial .Council Fund, development 
proposals relevant to the Western  province that accords to the  National Policy Framework should be taken into 
consideration.
 (2) Development plan should be formed to achieve the main thru st areas, sustainable development objectives and 
targets that have already been identiﬁ ed in the middle  term sectarian framework.
 (3) When development programs are implemented, in order to pre vent  project duplication, attention should be paid 
to form plans that fall directly within the subject area of the  ministry. Herein, priority should be given to assign 
the project authority and the implementation authority to the r elevant institution functioning under the relevant 
ministry.
 (4) When implementing development projects, all the projects s hould be subjected to supervision of the relevant project 
authority.
 (5) Attention should be paid to preservation of sustainability  and productivity of projects.
 (6) Whatever is mentioned in relation to implementation of tra ining and capacity development programs under the 
subjects described under each sections from No. 4 to 29 mention ed below, except training programs conducted 
under the Expenditure Head I09 (Chief Secretary’s Expenditure H ead), the technical training programs relevant 
to each subject shall only be implemented .
  For that, having prepared a detailed project report inclusive  of an estimate, approval thereto should be obtained from 
the project authority. This procedure shall be followed up to Two Million Rupees and with regard to projects that 
exceed this value, measures should be taken according to instructions issued from time to time through circulars.
 (7) The following information should compulsorily be included into the project management database when projects are 
approved. These information should be included by the oﬃ  cer-in-charge of the subject under the recommendation 
of Assistant/ Deputy Director (Planning)- in-charge of the subject.
   (i)   Project name
   (ii)   Ministry allocating provisions
   (iii)   Financial source
   (iv)   Program
   (v)   Expenditure Head and its number that allocates provisi ons
   (vi)   Component
   (vii)   Subject
   (viii) Sub-subject
   (ix)   Extensive activities
   (x)   Activities
   (xi)   Sustainable Development objectives
   (xii)   Project authority
   (xiii) Implementation authority
   (xiv) Sub implementation authority
   (xv)  Provision amount allocated to approve the project Rs.
   (xvi) To which institution will the provision be allocated?

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
3A
  (xvii) Institution to which payments will be made relevant to  the project
  (xviii) Phased project :Yes/ No
  (xix) If it is a phased project in implementation stage, the following information needs to be completed.
    (a) Total estimate amount: Rs.
    (b) If the project has been contracted to the total estimat ed amount, the estimated amount: Rs.
    (c ) Provisions further needed to complete the project whol ly: Rs.
    (d) Nos. of sub-projects already implemented to complete  t he work of the project
    (e) The project has already been used/ not used
 (8) (i) When planning for new construction projects that spans  for several years, the total approximate estimation of 
the project and the work-load expected to be completed in each year should be forwarded. Likewise, how funds 
will be allocated to the projects in future years should be stated clearly.
  (ii) Also, without proper planning as to how total provisions  for the project shall be raised, projects that are expected 
to be completed within a year should not be initiated.
 (9)  When submitting proposals to renovate or construct a prop erty, the ownership of the land shall belong to a 
Government or Semi-government institution. Similarly, prior to allocating provisions for construction and 
renovation of buildings, satisfaction should be established wit h regard to clear utilization of such property in 
future. Moreover, a clear process as to how such construction be maintained in future needs to be formed.
 (10)  In addition to the tasks stated for relevant sections, w hen submitting project proposals relating to timely 
requirements and special occasions, a justiﬁ cation report along with a recommendation of the relevant Provincial 
Secretary to the Ministry or Authority in charge of Operations should be forwarded to the Chief Secretary. The 
Chief Secretary should give his approval to implement the said project where he is satisﬁ ed regarding the said 
justiﬁ cation report.
 (11)  Based on the justiﬁ  cation and recommendation of the Authority in charge of Operat ions, provisions can be 
allocated for development and construction of Government registered public buildings where Provincial services 
are provided.
 (12)  The Secretary to the relevant ministry should take measures to approve projects with a value range of Rupees 
10 Million to Rupees 15 Million, subsequent to obtaining recomm endation from the Deputy Chief Secretary 
(Planning).
 (13)  Prior to implementing projects valued Rupees 15 Million or exceeding that amount, approval should be obtained 
after presenting them to the Planning Committee.
 (14)  The Secretary to the provincial ministry enjoys the powe r to directly approve projects of which total estimate 
value less than Rupees 10 Million.
 (15)  If projects with total estimation value over Rupees 10 M illion are implemented under phased project, prior 
approval of the Planning Committee should be obtained.
 (16)  Projects exceeding Rupees 50 Million in value (except purchasing equipment for provincial hospitals), a Risk 
Management Committee which is unique to each project should be appointed by the Chief Secretary. The said 
established committee should closely supervise the relevant pro ject and provide necessary guidance to the 
project authority and operational authority to ensure completion of the project in the expected standard and on 
due time.
 (17)  For annual plans prepared under the subjects of each min istry, activities relating to climate change minimization 
and adaptation to climate change activities should be included.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
4. When identifying and approving proposals under the subject o f Local Government and Provincial Administration, the 
following criteria should be conformed to.
 (1)  Development and maintenance of rural  public  roads  in  local  government authority areas and, other development 
aﬀ airs such as small bridges and culverts located  in such roads.
 (2) Regulation and maintenance of community halls, weekly fairs, dr inkable water supplies, library services, 
crematoriums, cemeteries; development and maintenance of local government services such as maternity clinics, 
pre- schools, playgrounds and gardens.
 (3) Raising awareness in people to properly maintain health an d sanitary conditions within the local government 
authority area, management of waste, development and maintenanc e of public lavatories, drainage systems and 
canal ways.
 (4) Providing facilities necessary to maintain the system of l ocal authorities eﬃ  ciently and properly.
 (5) Providing water and electricity facilities for community h alls and public buildings situated in the lands belonging 
to the government and local authorities after considering their ability to pay bills.
 (6) Supplying the required machinery to improve the eﬃ   ciency of Local authorities’ service providing, and, operating 
maintenance units.
 (7) Providing facilities and equipment required for disaster management to government institutions and local government 
institutions.
 (8) Providing equipment subjected to a maximum of One Hundred Thousand Rupees (Rs.l00,000/-) on recommendation  
of  the  Community  Development  Oﬃ  cer  to Community Boards (Praja Mandala) which lack suﬃ  cient equipment 
and which have been registered formally in local government authorities and  maintained  actively for more than  
two years.
5. Proposals under the subject of Environmental Aﬀ  airs should be identiﬁ ed and approved conforming to the criteria 
mentioned below.
 (1) Creation of ecological gardens including urban bowers, forests and herb gardens on specially identiﬁ ed requirements 
in state lands of the province and development  of such gardens. Provisions can be allocated in this regard subject  
to  a  maximum  of Rupees Five Million. When exceeding this lim it, approval must be obtained under General 
Matters 3(X) of these rules.
 (2) Creating green-strips alongside the provincial council roa ds.
 (3) Establishing joint operations to conduct programs to safeguard environment development by involving government, 
non-government and private institutions
 (4) Conserving aquatic ecosystems such as water sources, strea ms and brooks, tanks and ponds, coastal lines and 
lagoons and conducting programs to clean and improve them.
 (5)   Conducting programs to celebrate the Environment Day.
 (6) Implementation of projects connected to national level env ironmental programs.
 (7) Conducting awareness raising programs relating to conserva tion of ﬂ ora and fauna species that are endangered 
and threatened with extinction.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
5A
6. Following criteria should be followed in identifying and  ap proving  proposals  under  the subject of Electricity and 
Energy.
 (1) Extending and modernizing the electrical wiring system utilized for general use, transferring single-phase electricity 
into three-phase electricity and shifting electrical poles.
 (2) On the recommendation of the Divisional Secretary, providi ng only the electricity connection from the National 
Grid to low income-earning households that comprise school-attending children or persons with special needs.
 (3) Introduction of alternative energy sources where necessary , development and connection to the National Grid.
 (4) Providing only the electricity connection to institutions facilitating public services owned by local government 
authorities or entrusted  to  local  government  authorities and community halls located on government lands that 
have proper system to pay the monthly electricity bill.
7. In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of water supplies and drainage, the following criteria should 
be followed.
 (1) Taking measures to provide suitable drinking water facilit ies to the community.
 (2) Provision of water facilities under community water projec ts that consists minimum of 25 beneﬁ ciary families.
 (3) Construction and development of public wells used for drin king water as well as for other purposes.
 (4) Identifying the viability of water sources and testing wat er quality.
 (5) On the recommendation of the Divisional Secretary, providi ng only the water connection to low income-earning 
households that have no alternative methods to obtain water but have the capability to pay bills.
8. In identifying and approving the proposals under tourism pro motion the following criteria should be followed.
 (1) Improving the infrastructure facilities of the places of t ourist attraction in the province.
 (2) Carrying out promotional activities related to places of t ourist attractions and tourism industry.
 (3) Raising awareness for promotion of jobs related to tourism  sector.
 (4) Conduct training programs in order to provide quality serv ices related to the tourism sector.
 (5) Implementation of programs to coincide the celebration of International Tourism Day.
 (6) Conduct training programs to improve the quality of the go ods and services at tourist destinations and sales 
promotion.
 (7) Providing required infrastructure for sustainable communit y based development projects.
9. The following criteria shall be followed in identifying and approving proposals under  the subject of Health and 
Indigenous Medicine.
 (1)  Construction or renovation of hospitals, oﬃ   ces of Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, Primary Medical Treatment Units, 
pharmaceutical stores, quarters, clinical buildings, internal access roads, sewage systems and other infrastructure 
related to the health sector.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
 (2) Provision of equipment and machinery necessary for the pro per and timely running of public health services in 
government health institutions, purchasing spare parts required by compulsory bio medical equipment.
 (3) Implementation of training programs and awareness programs  to strengthen  and improve the quality of disease 
prevention and curative services and producing health education material
 (4) Conducting programs to improve the nutrition level and san itary conditions of pregnant women , children under 
5 years of age and school children in low income families.
 (5) Introducing modern technology and equipment required to st rengthen disease prevention and curative services 
and providing technical training.
10.  The following criteria  shall  be  conformed  to  in  iden tifying  and  approving  proposals under the  subject  of Health  
and  Indigenous Medicine.
 (1) Implementation of projects presented for construction of i nfrastructure facilities or renovation aﬀ airs relating to 
Ayurvedic hospitals, Ayurvedic Central Dispensaries, Clinical C enters, One Day Treatment Centers, Ayurvedic 
Special Treatment Centers, Ayurvedic Panchakarma Centers, Oﬃ  cial Quarters, Internal Access Ways, Sewage 
Systems and other such relating to the ﬁ eld of Ayurveda.
 (2) Providing equipment and machinery required to maintain pro per health services in all Ayurvedic treatment 
institutions, also, to maintain medicine production activities in medicine production houses.
 (3) Implementation of technical training programs, community a wareness programs and productivity programs 
necessary for strengthening disease prevention and treatment services and to increase quality. Conducting programs 
to improve nutrition status of pregnant women, children below 5 years of age and school children of low income 
earning families.
 (4) Implementation of programs to preserve and development of traditional medical practices.
 (5) Taking measures to develop herbal medicine gardens and med icine production.
11. Following criteria shall be followed in identifying and app roving proposals under the subject of Probation and Child 
Care Services.
 (l)  Implementation of special programs to ensure welfare of c hildren under probation care (Leadership/Sports).
 (2) Implementation of programs necessary for the development o f knowledge and skills inclusive of vocational training 
required by children when they are sent to society after probation care.
 (3) Taking necessary measures to prevent children getting unde r probation care. (awareness raising in community and 
children, providing vocational training for children who require them)
 (4) Development of infrastructure facilities in buildings belonging to the Probation Department and registered Children’s 
Homes.
 (5) Implementation of technical training programs and awarenes s programs required to improve the quality and 
eﬃ  ciency of staﬀ  that should be made aware of the protection and care of orpha ned, abandoned, helpless and 
abused children. (Inclusive of attitude development)
 (6) Providing a government contribution of up to a maximum Rup ees Two Hundred Thousand (Rs. 200,000/-)  to  
provide  self-employment  equipment  to parents, guardians of c hildren from low income earning families (By 
purchasing the machines or equipment required by the beneﬁ ciary through the department, according to prescribed 

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
7A
procurement methods, these aid should be provided without providing them ﬁ nancially)
12. The following criteria should be followed in identifying an d approving proposals under the subject of Social Welfare.
 (1) Provisions can be allocated to take necessary measures for the welfare, spiritual development, economic development 
and social development of senior citizens and persons deprived of social privileges due to sickness, old age, 
disability or orphan hood.
 (2) Equipment that can be used for public activities under a m aximum amount of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand 
(Rs.200,000/-) can be provided to welfare and funeral-aid socie ties, rural elders’ committees, divisional elders’ 
boards of authorities, district and provincial elders’ boards of authorities, which are important for social welfare 
and formally registered with the government.
  i. Those equipment should be used for public welfare purposes  and should be included in the inventory register of 
the relevant institution.
  ii. In distributing above equipment, measures should be taken   to  act  as  per recommendations of the Divisional 
Secretary or oﬃ  cer authorized to summon the board of authority.
  iii. Subsequent to being eligible by certain party to obtain goods under above criteria, they become ineligible to 
obtain other provisions under this until a lapse of three years.
 (3) According to the instructions issued by the Elders Secreta riat, as a preliminary step towards implementation of 
projects geared at economic generation, Rupees One Hundred Thousand (Rs.l00,000/-) can be provided to elders’  
homes  and  elders’ boards of authorities that have been established.
  i.  Prior to issuing these provisions, a project report shoul d be forwarded to the Provincial Department of Social 
Services and get it approved.
  ii. Priority will be, given to economic generation projects w hich can be implemented. continuously at least for 3 
years and on the success of the project, provisions, as appropr iate, can be allocated for the  oncoming years 
after the ﬁ rst grant.
 (4) Provisions may be allocated to provide equipment necessary  for the welfare of residents living in Elders’ Homes 
permanently registered in Western Provincial Social Services De partment or Elders’ Secretariat, or, Disabled 
Persons’ Homes or Rehabilitation Centers permanently registered in Western Provincial Social Services Department 
or Elders’ Secretariat.
 (5) Provisions may be allocated under a maximum limit of Rupee s Six Hundred Thousand (Rs.600,000/-) for new 
construction work or renovation aﬀ airs of Elders’ Homes permanently registered in Western Provin cial Social 
Services Department or Elders’ Secretariat, or, Disabled Persons’ Homes or Rehabilitation  Centers permanently 
registered in Western Provincial Social Services Department or Elders’ Secretariat.
  (i) Provisions in this regard should be provided as per estim ates of the Technical Oﬃ  cers and recommendations 
of Divisional Secretary subjected to the condition that a contr ibution of 10% of the estimate be borne by the 
relevant institution. (This minimum beneﬁ ciary contribution will be applicable to institutions that do not belong 
to Provincial Council)
  (ii) Provisions will only be allocated once for one task of a n institution and after a lapse of 2 years, provisions can 
be provided to another task external to the one already completed.
 (6) Provisions can be allocated to organize various programs f or residents of Elders’ Homes, Disabled Persons’ Homes 
or Rehabilitation Centers to improve their physical and mental health .

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
 (7) Provisions can be allocated to organize and implement vari ous programs for uplifting the physical , mental, 
economical and social statuses of senior citizens’ community wi th special needs and community that live in the 
normal society requiring assistance.
 (8) Provisions can be allocated for implementation of various programs for development of physical facilities, providing 
equipment required for welfare, development of mental and physi cal development of Elder citizens’ welfare 
centers, Guidance Centers for Children with Special Needs, Elde rs’ Day Care Centers and Schools for Children 
with Special Needs that do not come under Assisted Schools.
 (9)   Provisions  can  be  allocated to strengthe in the  comm unity  who  can   be  made  to contribute to the work force 
and who require assistance and to  provide  ﬁ nancial  and material  facilities to the community identiﬁ ed through 
the said activities.
 (10) Provisions can be allocated to provide technical training  that is needed to improve quality status and eﬃ  ciency 
of the staﬀ  of all the residential institutions and day care centers main tained under permanent registration under 
Western Provincial Social Services Department, National Secretariat for Elders or Secretariat for Disabled Persons 
and to organize various programs for the mental development of such staﬀ .
 (11) Subsequent to obtaining a conﬁ  rmation from the Ministry of Education that duplication would not occur for the 
schools categorized under Assisted Schools, which provide educa tion to children with special needs, provisions 
can b allocated to provide equipment required for children’s education.
 (12) Based on the recommendation of the Social Services Oﬃ   cer of the relevant division and Divisional Secretary, 
measures can be taken to provide a maximum allocation of Rupees Three Hundred Thousand (Rs.300,000/-) to low 
income earning  houses where disabled persons, maternal-centered families and recipients of sickness aid provided 
by the department are living, to be paid in three installments to the beneﬁ ciary for the purpose  of developing the 
facilities  required  by them.
 (13) For school attending children with special needs in low income, special educational equipment or special equipment 
that makes their daily life easier can be provided on Medical O ﬃ  cer’s recommendation and approval of the 
Provincial Director.
 (14) In residential institutions where elders, persons with  s pecial  needs are residing  in, if  it is expected to implement 
a self employment programs according to their ability, in order  to supply basic knowledge and  basic  resources  
required  in  that  regard, provisions can be provided subjected to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand 
(Rs.100,000/-)
13. The following criteria should be followed in identifying an d approving proposals under the subject of Social Welfare.
 (1) Providing capital provisions under a maximum of Rupees One  Hundred Fifty Thousand (Rs.150,000/-) on 
government contribution and a 30% of minimum beneﬁ ciary contribution for a woman engaged in self employment 
or expecting to commence a self employment.
 (2) Conducting self employment training programs for women and providing capital provisions subjected to a  maximum  
of  Rupees  One  Hundred  Fifty  Thousand (Rs.150,000/-) on government contribution based on a 30% of minimum 
contribution by the beneﬁ ciary to women who have commenced self employment.
 (3) Having referred to relevant institutions to obtain the Nat ional V ocational Qualiﬁ cation (NVQ) Certiﬁ cate, providing 
the amount required thereby subjected to a minimum of Rupees Fi fty Thousand (Rs.50,000/-). Subsequent to a 
formal contract with the beneﬁ ciary, this amount should be directly paid to the relevant vocational training institute.
 (4) Identifying projects to upgrade the living conditions of depressed women (widows, deserted by the spouse, disabled) 
and providing capital equipment subjected to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Fifty Thousand (Rs.150,000/-) 
as government contribution .

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
9A
 (5) Conducting personality development, leadership workshops t o reach for priority statuses in economic, social and 
political environments.
 (6) Conducting counseling programs and entrepreneurship progra ms for women .
 (7) Implementing projects that are required to improve women’s  physical and mental health.
14. The following criteria could be corresponded to when identi fying and approving proposals under the subject of land.
 (1) Carrying out necessary development aﬀ  airs including soil conservation aﬀ airs that are relevant to preservation of 
state lands.
 (2) Providing required facilities to strengthen the institutio ns relevant to state land management.
 (3) Developing road facilities providing access ways to state lands.
15. Proposals under the subject of Agriculture can be identiﬁ  ed and approved conforming to the criteria mentioned below.
 (1) When  implementing the entrepreneurship  development proje cts relevant to agriculture of  the  province,   if  it  is  
required  to  provide   inputs  to  the  selected   beneﬁ ciaries, allocating   provisions   subjected   to   a   maximum   o f       
Rupees   One   Million   (Rs.1,000,000/-)    as    government    contribution.    Under    this    new    entrepreneurship 
development  or  further  development  of  already  established  entrepreneurship  can  be carried out.
  (i) Beneﬁ  ciary contribution should be at least 30% of the total project value and a beneﬁ ciary will only be given 
a one time opportunity.
  (ii) From the occasion of providing the ﬁ  rst beneﬁ t, subsequent beneﬁ ts can be provided as one-time beneﬁ t or 
several-time beneﬁ ts within the 5 years ensuing therefrom totaling up to One Million Rupees (Rs.1,000,000/-)
 (2) If it is required to provide inputs to beneﬁ  ciaries selected for speciﬁ c  projects (agricultural modernization, climate 
friendly agrarian projects, export based agrarian projects etc.), which are implemented for entrepreneur  development  
relating  to agriculture of the province, having decided the provision requirement  and methodology for releasing 
provisions through a technical committee (this committee should comprise a representation of the department in 
addition to technical oﬃ  cers), and having considered the decision given therefrom and as per the recommendation 
given by the Western Provincial Director of Agriculture, provisions can be allocated subjected to a maximum of 
Rupees One Million Five Hundred Thousand  (Rs.1,500,000/-). Therein,
   (i) Beneﬁ  ciary contribution shall at least be 30% of the total project value.
   (ii) Providing this beneﬁ  t one time only to one entrepreneur.
   (iii) The number of projects of this nature implementable fo r a year per a district would be of two projects   
     maximally.
 (3) Providing agricultural equipment or other beneﬁ  ts subjected to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand 
(Rs.100,000/-) per beneﬁ ciary by government and 30% of beneﬁ ciary contribution from the value of the total project 
where selected minor scale agricultural entrepreneurship develo pment projects and projects which contribute to 
ensure food security are concerned.
   (i) Once beneﬁ  ts are provided, in order to receive beneﬁ ts again, at least 5 years should have lapsed.
 (4) When implementing projects relevant to agriculture in the province, if it is necessary to provide beneﬁ  ts to 
registered Agricultural Associations, agricultural equipment and/ or other beneﬁ ts could be provided, subjected to 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
30% contribution by the Agricultural Association of the total project value and maximum amount of Rupees Five 
Hundred Thousand (Rs. 500,000/-) as government contribution.
  (i)  In order to be eligible to obtain these beneﬁ  ts, three years since the registration of the Agricultural Association 
should have elapsed.
  (ii) Subsequent to receiving beneﬁ  ts once, in order to become eligible to obtain beneﬁ  ts again, at least 5 years 
maximum should have elapsed.
 (5) Implementation of projects to ensure food security
  (i)  Increasing the cultivation area and productivity of prod ucts to increase agricultural production
  (ii) Panning of projects that can decrease the production cos t
  (iii) Implementation of projects to create market opportuniti es
  (iv) Implementation of projects to create value added project s
  (v)  Implementation of homestead gardening projects
 (6) Implementation of projects to certify consumption of bette r quality foods such as vegetables and fruits.
  (i)  Implementation of relevant project proposals to use orga nic fertilizer and produce organic fertilizer
  (ii) Implementation of  projects  that are required to implem ent better agricultural practices
  (iii) Implementing programs for GAP certiﬁ  cation
  (iv) Implementation of projects required to promote organic a griculture
 (7) Implementing projects to create abundance in seeds and cul tivation media in the Western Province
  (i)  Having identiﬁ  ed the producers who produce seeds and cultivation media throu gh projects as suppliers in 
forthcoming seasons, taking measures to identify them as regist ered suppliers in the Provincial Department 
of Agriculture in order to purchase from them for projects of the said department.
  (ii) Implementation of projects as appropriate for selling of  seeds and cultivation media.
  (iii) The  potential  is there  to  implement  projects  to  initiate  a  mechanism to provide seeds for selected projects 
and to reimburse the  same amount  at the  end  of  the  season  with  the  view   of providing   them for other 
beneﬁ ciaries in the next season.
 (8) Implementation of projects to provide training for agricul tural extension.
  (i)  For any person who is engaged in the ﬁ eld of agriculture or anybody interested in entering the ﬁ eld of agriculture, 
organizing training programs to provide them with technological knowledge and implementing them.
  (ii) Projects can be implemented to provide farmers with agri-technology through local ﬁ eld studies and educational 
ﬁ eld visits to agricultural institutions and opportunity can be given to oﬃ  cers engaged in extension aﬀ airs to 
participate in them (Oﬃ  ces of Sri Lanka Agricultural Service, Agricultural Instructors, Agricultural Operations 
Oﬃ  cers, Technical Assistants). Two such projects maximum should be implemented per year in a district.

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
11A
  (iii) Taking measures to provide knowledge, familiarity and s kills to everybody who are interested in this subject 
including the farmer-community using various extension methods. (mobile programs, crop clinics , exhibitions, 
ﬁ eld training programs, publications FFs, FBS, Mass Media-television and radio programs, special work-shops 
and conferences)
  (iv) Implementing projects to conduct crop cultivations and d emonstrations in a manner in which agri-technology 
will be advertised from ﬁ eld level.
  (v)  Conducting training programs as demonstrations to promote homestead gardening in relation to schools, homes 
and governmental institutions and in required occasions, providing inputs.
  (vi) Implementing projects to conduct conferences for yearly evaluation of successful extension programs (best 
homesteads/ best agricultural entrepreneur, etc.)
 (9) Implementation of project proposals for the development aﬀ  airs, construction of buildings and development aﬀ airs 
of institutions belonging to the Provincial Department of Agriculture.
  (i)  In a manner agri-technology is disseminated to the publi c, carrying out crop cultivations and integrated farm 
systems at specimen level in training centers and spacious extension oﬃ  ces.
  (ii) Implementation of projects related to food  security and   income generation in farms/ integrative farming 
systems under the Provincial Department of Agriculture.
  (iii) Development of facilities for extension agents/ ﬁ  eld staﬀ .
  (iv) Implementation of projects such as ﬂ  ower cultivation, animal husbandry, various artistic creations  (such as 
bonsai art, terranium, kokidata etc.) to generate income.
 (10)  Implementation of project proposals for the institutiona l development aﬀ airs, construction of buildings and 
development works of institutions belonging to the Provincial Department of Agriculture.
  (i)  Construction of buildings and development
  (ii) Land development
  (iii) Development of farm aﬀ  airs
  (iv) Training capacity development
  (v)  Machinery and plant purchasing
 (11) Implementation of proposals subsequent to obtaining appro val from the planning committee for projects identiﬁ ed 
in relation to provincial research activities.
  (i)  If the selected agricultural ﬁ  elds are used for that purpose and if the government has to be ar the expenses 
related to those research activities, provisions can be allocated subject to a maximum of Rupees One Million 
Five Hundred Thousand (Rs.1,500,000/-) as the contribution of the government.
  (ii) Beneﬁ  ts can be provided at one time or several times totaling up to Rupees One Million Five Hundred Thousand 
(Rs.1,500,000/-) within 05 years from the time of receiving the ﬁ rst beneﬁ t.
  (iii) The number of projects in this nature, implementable pe r district per year is of one project maximum.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
 (12) Implementing projects to execute and supervise agricultur al regulations and acts  as per powers assigned to 
Provincial Public Service Oﬃ  cers in relation to Provincial Councils.
 (13) Presenting necessary project proposals for value chain de velopment, value added products and providing market 
facilities for them.
 (14) Implementation of projects to promote agribusinesses and entrepreneurship and to reduce post-harvest damages.
 (15) Implementing proposals to induce the youth community towa rds agriculture.
 (16) Implementing programs to use suitable yet uncultivated la nds eﬀ ectively for cultivation and implementing projects 
to develop farms and agricultural lands.
 (17) Implementing projects to promote .the “ Hela Bojun” (Native Sri Lankan Food) concept of the Department of 
Agriculture of Western Province.
 (18) Implementing projects as appropriate by the Department of  Agriculture in•times of disaster such as pandemics, 
diseases, pests, ﬂ oods, etc. that threaten agriculture/food security.
 (19) Implementing public - private partnership projects conduc ted m conjugation with public and private sectors at 
necessary times.
 (20) Implementing climate-friendly projects that are necessary  for adaptation and to minimize climate impacts.
 (21) In the case of the Agricultural Services Authority,
  (i)  Implementing project proposals relevant for the promotio n of agricultural crops.
  (ii) Implementing project proposals required for value-added products and provision of market facilities for them.
  (iii) Implementing projects for the promotion of agribusiness  and entrepreneurship.
  (iv) Implementing development projects for the promotion of “ Hela Bojun” concept.
  (v)  Implementing projects to minimize post-harvest damage.
  (vi) Introducing markets for the sale of organic products of entrepreneurs, establishing marketing centers and 
implementing project proposals for the development of those centers.
  (vii)  Contributing to conduct mobile markets and hold exhibi tions.
  (viii) Encouraging the community to engage in self-employment  and implementing projects to support them to 
  continue their businesses.
  (ix) Implementing projects related to the agricultural sector  that can generate income for the Provincial Agricultural 
Authority.
  (x)  Implementing projects to create availability of inputs a nd provide services.
16 Proposals    under   the   subject    of   Minor    Irrigation   should   be   identiﬁ ed   and   approved conforming to the 
criterion mentioned below.
  (1)  Providing necessary facilities to carry water to the agr icultural lands when providing  water supply to lands 

<!-- page 13 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
13A
in which agricultural works are carried out, dispose  of excess water and construction of structures to reduce 
the damages caused by ﬂ oods and sea water and their  maintenance.
 (2) Maintenance and development of existing and new irrigation  works and construction of new irrigation works.
 (3) Conducting programs to impart knowledge about water manage ment to the farming community.
 (4) Implementing project proposals for constructions related t o minor Irrigations or irrigations of which renovations 
are expected to be completed or other elements.
 (5) Constructing agricultural roads and tractor bunds which ar e required to access agricultural lands.
 (6) Purchasing mechanical equipment  related to irrigational constructions and maintenance and maintaining continuous 
service supply.
17 Proposals under the subject of Fisheries should be identiﬁ  ed and approved conforming to    the criterion mentioned 
below.
 (1) Releasing ﬁ  ngerlings to freshwater reservoirs of the province to make abundant ﬁ sh production in order to minimize 
the nutritional deﬁ ciencies of the people of the province and to ensure food security, providing ﬁ shing equipment 
to the people engaged in freshwater and small-scale saltwater ﬁ  sh industry  once  in every three years under a 
30% of beneﬁ ciary contribution, up to a maximum of one Rupees One Hundred Thousand (Rs.100,000/-), and 
providing inputs as direct grants up to a maximum of Rupees Fiv e Hundred Thousand (Rs.500,000/-) under  a 
30% beneﬁ ciary contribution to ﬁ sheries societies registered with the Aquaculture Development Authority or the 
Ministry of Fisheries under  the recommendations  of the Technical Committee ( This Technical Committee should 
also include an oﬃ  cer from the Ministry of Agriculture In addition to experts in the subject.)
 (2) Providing beneﬁ  ts up to  a  maximum    of  Rupees  One  Hundred   Thousand     (Rs.100,000/-) once in every 
03 years at a beneﬁ ciary contribution rate of 30% when implementing projects rela ted to the promotion of the 
ornamental ﬁ sh industry.
 (3) Conducting training programs necessary to develop the know ledge and attitudes of oﬃ  cers to eﬃ  ciently provide 
services to the ﬁ shing community, providing new technology to farms, and conduc ting training programs, ﬁ eld 
days and ﬁ eld trips for ﬁ sh farmers to familiarize them with that technology.
 (4) Developing and maintaining Pitipana Aquaculture Developmen t Center.
18 Proposals  under  the  subject  of  Animal  Production  shou ld  be  identiﬁ ed   and    approved conforming to the criterion 
mentioned below.
 (1) Implementation of the proposed programs for the developmen t of these sectors to provide quality animal products 
to the public.
 (2) Provision of breeding animals and breeding material based on the improvement of the breed of farm animals to 
increase the income of farmers engaged in animal husbandry by increasing the production of the farms.
  (i)  When a Technical Committee conﬁ  rms that a farmer who is currently engaged in cattle husbandry  is able 
to maintain cows/ heifers by providing foods in a cow shed set-up by the said farmer, and, for a farmer who 
produces milk and supplies it to the market; payment of Rupees Five Hundred Thousand (Rs.500,000/-)  to  a 
farmer subject to a maximum Government contribution of 70% to purchase a maximum of two cows/grown 
heifers (over one year old).
  (ii) When a Technical Committee conﬁ rms that beneﬁ ciaries who are entering anew to the sector on self-employment 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
are able to maintain cows/ heifers by providing foods in a cow shed set-up by the new farmer, payment of 
Rupees Two Hundred Thousand (Rs.200,000/-) according to the estimation of the Technical Committee subject 
to a maximum Government contribution of 70%, can be made to purchase a cow. The newly constructed cow 
shed can be used as the farmer’s contribution subsequent to the estimation by the Technical Committee.
  (iii) When a Technical Committee conﬁ  rms that a farmer who is currently engaged in goat husbandry i s able 
to maintain goats/ nanny-goats by providing foods in a goat she d set-up by the said farmer, and, a farmer 
who produces and supplies milk/supplies goats for meat to the m arket; Rupees Two Hundred Thousand 
(Rs. 200,000/-) maximum can be paid to such a farmer subject to a Government contribution of 70% to purchase 
2 to 5 nanny goats according to the estimation by the Technical Committee. To purchase a billy-goat, payment 
of a sum  equal  to 70% of the value of the animal as per the estimation by the Technical Committee subjected 
to a maximum amount  of  Rupees  Two  Hundred  Thousand  (Rs. 200,000/-)
  (iv) When a Technical Committee conﬁ rms that beneﬁ ciaries who are entering anew to the sector on self-employment 
are able to maintain goats/ nanny-goats  by providing foods in a goat shed set-up by the new farmer, payment 
of Rupees Two Hundred Fifty Thousand (Rs. 250,000/-) maximum according to the estimation of the Technical 
Committee subject to a Government contribution of 70%, can be made to purchase goats. The newly constructed 
goat shed can be used as the farmer’s contribution subsequent to the estimation by the Technical Committee.
  (v)  When a Technical Committee conﬁ  rms that a farmer who is currently engaged in porcine husbandr y is able 
to maintain swine/ sow by providing foods in a pigsty set-up by  the said farmer; payment of Rupees Two 
Hundred Fifty Thousand (Rs. 250,000/-) maximum to a farmer subject to a Government contribution of 70% 
of the animals to purchase maximum of ﬁ ve piglets.
  (vi) When a Technical Committee conﬁ  rms that beneﬁ ciaries who are entering anew to porcine industry on 
self-employment are able to maintain swine/ sow by providing fo ods in a pigsty set-up by the new farmer, 
payment of Rupees Two Hundred Fifty Thousand (Rs. 250,000/-) ma ximum according to the estimation of 
the Technical Committee subject to a Government contribution of 70%, can be made to purchase piglets. The 
newly constructed pigsty can be used as the farmer’s contribution subsequent to the estimation by the Technical 
Committee.
  (vii) For a farm consisting more than 5 breeding cows that pr oduces natural curd for selling, paying Rupees Two 
Hundred Fifty Thousand (Rs. 250,000) subject to a maximum gover nment contribution of up to 70% of the 
value of the animals, to purchase a bull calf for natural breeding  purposes.
 (3) The following steps can be taken when submitting project p roposals  for  the development of infrastructure facilities 
of animal farms/dairy  farmers’ societies/livestock production institutions.
   i.  Rupees Five Hundred Thousand (Rs. 500,000/-) can be prov ided subjected to a maximum Government 
contribution of (70%) of the estimated cost when providing infrastructure facilities to dairy farmers’ societies/ 
livestock  production  institutions, on the recommendations  of the Technical  Committee.
 (4) When providing the animals required for the domestic poult ry farming program, alternative poultry farming (quails, 
turkeys, ducks) with a view to ensure food security in the hous eholds of the people; a quantity of 10-20 chicks 
and poulte and a quantity of 25-100 quails per each household o nce in every two years will be provided on the 
recommendation of the Animal Development Advisor and the Veterinary Oﬃ  cer. It is compulsory for the beneﬁ ciary 
to have a cage prepared by him and it can be set oﬀ  for the beneﬁ ciary contribution on the recommendation of the 
Animal Development Advisor and the Veterinary Oﬃ  cer.
 (5) Improving the facilities required by the institutions unde r the department to provide a quality public service.
19 Proposals under the subject of Industries should be identiﬁ  ed and approved and implemented conforming to the criterion 
mentioned below.

<!-- page 15 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
15A
 In order to encourage local traditional industries (textile, w ood, clay, leather, light, coir, sewing) and other industries 
covering various ranges and to improve the quality of those products,
 (1) Small Industries Societies may be provided assistance to p urchase inputs and technical equipment required for 
speciﬁ cally identiﬁ ed projects. In this regard, the following points should be considered.
  (i)  It should be an active Small Industries Society register ed in the Government.
  (ii) The relevant society should contribute 30% of the value of the inputs/technical equipment provided, and the 
maximum value that can be provided as government assistance to one society per year is Rupees Five Hundred 
Thousand (Rs. 500,000).
  (iii) It is compulsory to obtain the recommendation of  an  o ﬃ  cer  of a recognized government institution  with  
technical  knowledge  in  the relevant industry along with the project report for the approval of these projects.
 (2) The relevant equipment may also be provided to an industri alist engaged in a local traditional industry (textile, 
wood, clay, leather, light, coir, sewing). The following matters should be considered in this regard .
  (i)  The Provincial Director of Industries should recommend  that  the  ﬁ eld  in which the relevant industrialist is 
currently engaged is a traditional industry.
  (ii) It is compulsory to obtain a recommendation of an oﬃ   cer of a recognized government institution with technical 
knowledge  in the relevant  industry that the applicant is suitable to be provided with the relevant equipment.
  (iii) The donation must be given on a 30% of beneﬁ  ciary contribution  from the value of the equipment subject to 
a maximum of One Hundred Thousand Rupees (Rs. 100,000) per year.
 In providing the beneﬁ  ts in (1) and (2) above;  
 Money should not be released directly to the beneﬁ  ciary for the purchase of equipment.
 It is the responsibility of the implementing authority to proc ure the necessary equipment following the government’s 
standard procurement procedures and to purchase the necessary equipment after collecting the applicable beneﬁ ciary 
contribution.
 (3) Direct grants may be provided as self-employment assistanc e to entrepreneurs who are currently engaged in self-
employment or who are expecting to engage in self  - employment  in future and whom the Divisional Secretary 
of the relevant area is satisﬁ ed that they have the competence to engage in the enterprise. The following matters 
should be considered in this regard.
  (i)  Only self-employment equipment or machinery or capital goods should be provided. Consumer goods/materials 
should not be provided.
  (ii) A minimum beneﬁ  ciary contribution of 30% of the value of the equipment/machinery/capital goods provided 
should be collected from the beneﬁ ciary.
  (iii) These direct grants should be provided subject to a maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand as government 
contribution.
  (iv) Notwithstanding anything stated in the section (ii) above, the Chief Secretary may decide, taking into account the 
facts submitted by the Secretary of the relevant subject Ministry, what percentage of the minimum beneﬁ ciary 
contribution should be.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
  (v)  The list of beneﬁ  ciaries receiving direct grants should be submitted for the ap proval of the Secretary of the 
Ministry in charge of the subject.
 (4) Can contribute for the sale of products of small and mediu m scale industrialists of the province and artisans 
registered in the Provincial Department of Industries in ways mentioned below.
   (i)   Introducing markets
   (ii) Establishing trade centers and developing them
   (iii) Conducting mobile markets and exhibitions
   (iv) Presenting products to local and foreign markets/exhibi tions. A beneﬁ ciary contribution of 50% of the 
amount payable for such markets/exhibitions should be recovered from the relevant artisan.
 (5) Providing new technology and other physical facilities to the production and training centers established under 
the Western Provincial Department of Industries and the Industrial Development Authority.
 (6) Conducting vocational training programs and entrepreneursh ip development programs suitable for the development 
of knowledge and skills of persons engaged/ desire to engage in industries. Herein, the following matters should 
be taken into consideration.
  (i)  Resource persons should be selected from a pool of regis tered resource persons of the Western Provincial 
Department of Industries/ Western Provincial Industrial Development Authority/ National Crafts Council.
  (ii) The most suitable resource person should be selected acc ording to the target group. For this, the prior approval 
of the project or implementing authority should be obtained depending on the nature of the training   program.
  (iii) The resource person should be an expert with a certiﬁ  cate obtained from a recognized institution with 
professional competence relevant to the subject area.
  (iv) In cases where the resource person is a skilled  craftsm an  who  cannot produce such recognized certiﬁ cates, 
the prior approval  of the  Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the relevant subject should be obtained.
 (7) Provisions can be made for persons above 18 years of age who are engaged/  intending to engage in self-employment, 
to pursue courses in Government approved vocational training institutions. The following matters should be taken 
into consideration here.
  (i)  The maximum provision amount that can be allocated to on e person is Rupees One Hundred Thousand 
(Rs. 100,000/-). After entering into an agreement with the beneﬁ ciary, this amount should be paid directly to 
the relevant vocational training institution only.
  (ii) Priority should be given to persons with the following n eeds m selecting bendicisries.
    a) Being a person not covered by any other scheme and not p reviously received such a sponsorship.
    b) Being a mother-headed household
    c) Being a person with special needs
  (iii) A beneﬁ  ciary contribution of 30% of the relevant course fee should be recovered from non-low-income holders. 
No beneﬁ ciary contribution is required from persons who have been conﬁ rmed as low-income holders by the 
relevant Grama Niladhari.

<!-- page 17 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
17A
 (8) Taking measures to encourage small and medium scale indust rialists in the Western Province. The following matters 
should be taken into consideration here.
  (i)  Providing entrepreneurship training and technical traini ng.
  (ii) Implementing a program to network information of traders .
  (iii) Gathering new inventors in the province, conduct progra ms for them, connect them with institutions of the 
central government and implement appropriate projects to contribute to national development.
 (9) To minimize environmental pollution caused by industries;
  (i)  Conducting research related to introducing green technol ogy to the industrial sector and taking necessary 
measures to adapt the industries to it.
  (ii) Taking appropriate measures to direct medium and small s cale industries to renewable energy sources.
20 Proposals under the subject of Provincial Roads should be id entiﬁ ed and approved and implemented conforming to 
the criterion mentioned below.
 (1) Construction of new roads belonging to ‘C’ and ‘D’ grades and access roads (‘AR’) in the Western Province, 
improvement and proper maintenance of existing roads. (A feasible system should be developed for water drainage 
during road development)
 (2) Making of drainage system on both sides of the road to pro tect its sustainability during road development, 
rehabilitation of culverts and bridges.
 (3) Construction and development of new structures related to the provincial road system such as drainage systems 
(shoe drains/concrete drains), bridges, culverts, side walls etc.
 (4) (i)   Prioritize the improvement of the provincial  road  system  and  its associated structures in areas that are 
vulnerable to climate change to make them resilient to such risks.
  (ii)  Implement appropriate strategies (construction of new b ridges/ culverts/ sidewalls/ drainage systems, etc.) to 
prevent landslides in the provincial road system in those areas.
 (5)  Install road signs, ﬁ  x road marks, install convex mirrors, and mark pedestrian cros sings to improve road safety. 
Recommendations from relevant institutions should be obtained for the above matters when necessary.
21 Proposals under the subject of Housing and Constructions should be identiﬁ ed and approved and implemented conforming 
to the criterion mentioned below.
 (1) After conﬁ  rming the ownership of the land sponsorship amount or material  assistance of a maximum of Rupees 
Three Hundred Thousand (Rs.300,000/-) and a minimum of Rupees O ne Hundred Thousand (Rs.100,000/-) can 
be provided  in two installments to each low-income earning fam ily for the remaining work of a house or repair 
of a house.
 (2) After conﬁ  rming the ownership of the land, a sponsorship amount of a max imum of Rupees Twenty Hundred  
Thousand  (Rs. 2,000,000/-)  can  be provided  in installments to each beneﬁ ciary low-income earning  family  that  
do not  own  a  permanent house, for the construction  of a new house. This housing assistance shall be provided  
subject to the approval of the Housing Development Committee of  Western Province on the recommendation of 
the Divisional Secretary. Provisions can be allocated for the c onstruction of a maximum of six new houses per 
year.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
 (3) A maximum amount of Rupees Ten Hundred Thousand (Rs. 1,000 ,000/-) can  be provided subject to the approval 
of the Chief  Secretary  with  the  recommendations of the Divi sional Secretary  and  the  Western  Provincial  
Housing  Development Committee for houses completely damaged due to sudden disasters (e.g. landslides, ﬁ res, 
cyclones, ﬂ oods). It should be ensured that the beneﬁ ciary is not covered by any other government fund.
 (4) Priority should be given to families that meet at least on e of the following points in selecting beneﬁ ciaries for the 
rights mentioned under numbers (1), (2) and (3) above. These points should be conﬁ rmed by a certiﬁ cate from the 
Grama Niladhari.
  (i)  Being  a  low-income  earning  family  with  school  chi ldren/  persons  with special needs.
  (ii) Being a low-income earning family that has become destit ute due to the death of the income earner of the 
family.
  (iii) Being a low-income earning family devoid of one or both  parents.
22. The following criteria should be followed in identifying, a pproving and implementing proposals under the subject of 
Estate Infrastructure. Estate infrastructure related to the plantation sector is only applicable under this subject.
 (1) Improvement of estate roads to uplift the living standards  of the people living in the estates.
  (i)  Estate roads should be speciﬁ  cally identiﬁ ed through a proper methodology here.
  (ii) Only the roads with access to estate settlements should be developed .
 (2) Providing water and electricity facilities to improve the living standards of the people living in the estates.
  (i)  Provisions can be allocated to provide electricity conne ction to estate houses subject to a maximum of Rupees 
One Hundred Thousand (Rs. l 00,000/-) per beneﬁ ciary family. This amount, which is provided only to provide 
electricity connection to a house should be paid to the institution providing the power connection.
  (ii) Provisions can be allocated to implement community water  projects required to provide water facilities to the 
people living in the estates. In this case, provisions should b e allocated after obtaining formal conﬁ rmation 
as to the payment of bills by the relevant beneﬁ ciaries.
 (3) Provisions can be allocated for the development of line-ho uses of the people living in the estates, subject to the 
recommendations of the Western Provincial Housing Development C ommittee. Provisions cannot be made for 
direct grants in this regard .
 (4) Provisions can be allocated for the supply of sanitation f acilities to the people living in the estates, subject to a 
maximum of Rupees One Hundred Thousand (Rs. 100,000/-).
23. Following criteria should be followed in identifying and ap proving proposals under the subject of Transport.
 (1) Construction, improvement and renovation of main bus yards  other than the bus station  yards  maintained  by  Sri 
Lanka Transport Board.
 (2) Providing quality service to the general public through th e construction of passenger shelters on both sides of the 
road.
 (3) Preparation and implementation of programs to reduce accid ents caused by passenger transport buses, three-
wheelers, school children transport service buses and staﬀ  transport service vehicles within the province.

<!-- page 19 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
19A
 (4) Implementing relevant programs to train bus drivers, condu ctors, school van drivers and assistants, three-wheeler 
drivers and oﬃ  ce transport service drivers in order to provide a more eﬃ   cient and formal passenger transport 
service to the community.
 (5) Providing technical tools and implementing relevant progra ms to streamline and make passenger transport services 
eﬃ  cient and to conduct regulatory activities properly.
 (6) Educating the public and those working in the transportati on sector about  the dangers that may arise due to climate 
change and the measures that should be taken to protect themselves from them.
24. In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of  cooperative development, the following criteria should be 
followed.
 (1) Modernizing cooperative trade enterprises ( e.g., sales outlets, fuel stations, rural banks, pharmacies, milk bars, 
communication centers, etc.) in a way that attracts customers.
 (2) Planning and implementing training programs to promote the  knowledge and skills of government oﬃ  cers of 
cooperative societies engaged in the cooperative sector on the subject of auditing.
 (3) Implementing entrepreneurship development programs by invo lving ﬁ nancial-service  cooperative societies (rural 
banks, other cooperative societies) in selected target groups to promote self-employment, small and medium-scale 
entrepreneurs with the aim of eliminating rural indebtedness.
 (4) Implementing programs to register and promotion of school cooperative societies to impart subject knowledge on 
cooperatives to school children.
25. In identifying and approving proposals under the subject of  Rural Development, the following criteria should be 
followed.
 (1) Construction and improvement of speciﬁ  cally identiﬁ ed rural infrastructure within a local government authority 
area which are not private property . This includes tasks related to development projects connected to small roads, 
foot bridges, small bridges, culverts, buildings of Rural Development Societies, rural market facilities, community 
water projects etc.
 (2) In the case of developing a road owned by a local government authority at the rural level, the implementing authority 
shall take steps to obtain the consent of the relevant local government authority before implementing the project.
 (3) Providing goods and equipment to the Rural Development Soc ieties which are identiﬁ ed as necessary for the public 
tasks carried out for the welfare of the rural people. Herein, the following points should be met.
  (i)  For Rural Development Societies registered under the Wes tern Province Rural Development Department; 
it has to be a Rural Development Society that has been actively  maintained for more than two years on the 
recommendation of the Director of the Western Province Rural Development Department/relevant Divisional 
Secretary/Director of Rural Development or a Rural Development Oﬃ  cer authorized  by the relevant  Divisional  
Secretary.
  (ii) The relevant Rural Development Society does not have the  requested goods/equipment  in stock suﬃ  cient to 
meet the needs of the registered  members of the society.
  (iii) Provision of goods/equipment once in three years subjec t to  a  maximum  of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand 
(Rs. 200,000/-)  per  Rural  Development Society.
  (iv) Chairs, prefabricated shelters (mobile sheds) and other items/equipment required for rural common needs that 

<!-- page 20 -->

20A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
are required by the Rural Development Society can be provided, by taking into account the conﬁ rmation given 
by the Director of the Western Province Rural Development Department/relevant Divisional Secretary/Director 
of Rural Development or the Rural Development Oﬃ  cer authorized by the relevant Divisional Secretary and 
the recommendation of the implementing •authority of the project.
 (4) To build a network necessary for community development and  to develop knowledge, skills and attitudes by uniting 
and coordinating voluntary associations established at the rural level.
 (5) Provision of water and electricity facilities to the sewin g centers and rural development society halls of the 
Department of Rural Development. The following facts should be taken into consideration here.
  (i) Provisions may be made for the provision of water and ele ctricity facilities for government-owned and other 
public premises where sewing centers of the Department of Rural Development are maintained , subject to the 
payment of the relevant bills by those institutions.
  (ii) Provisions should be allocated for Rural Development Soc iety Halls after obtaining formal conﬁ rmation regarding 
the payment of monthly bills in the future, with the recommendations of the relevant Rural Development Oﬃ  cers.
 (6) Implementation of training courses in association with Rur al Women’s Development Training Centers.
  (i) Providing local/foreign exhibition facilities and market facilities for the products made by the Provincial Tailoring 
Instructors under the Department of Rural Development.
  (ii) Providing necessary facilities to market the products of  trainees at rural training centers.
  (iii) Introducing modern technology and providing necessary e quipment to rural training centers.
 (7) Providing necessary training, technology, etc. for domestic industries.
 (8) Implementing ﬁ  eld training programs and special technical skill development training programms for oﬃ  cers of 
Rural Development Societies and conducting inter  provincial knowledge exchange programs.
 (9) (i) Implementing programs to improve the nutrition of the families of Rural Development Society members.
  (ii) Implementation of drug prevention programs, environmenta l programs, cultural  programs, etc. through Rural 
Development Societies.
26. The following criteria should be followed when identifying and approving proposals under the subject of education.
 (1) In government schools belonging to the Provincial Council,  using provincial funds,
  (i) Construction, renovation and repairing of buildings
  (ii) Construction, renovation and repairing of toilets
  (iii) Modernization and repair of electrical systems
  (iv) Construction and development of school playgrounds and c hildren’s parks
  (v) Construction of internal roads in schools
  (vi) Construction and repair of security gates, walls, side w alls and security fences

<!-- page 21 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
21A
  (vii) On the recommendation of Zonal Director of Education, p rovision of computers, desks, chairs, musical 
instruments, sports equipment, laboratory equipment and learning equipment that directly contribute to the 
development of schools and repair of existing equipment, and,
  (viii) Construction, renovation and repair of administrative buildings, may be carried out.
 (2) For students from needy families who are unable to purchas e books and educational equipment, educational 
equipment such as books, pens, pencils, mathematical sets, school bags, shoes, etc., may be provided to each student 
subject to a maximum of ten thousand rupees per year. After obtaining the recommendation of the Grama Niladhari 
and the Principal regarding the family’s income status, the donation should be made to the relevant student through 
the class teacher. Also, other students in the school should not be informed about it, and these funds should not be 
used to provide books and equipment to students in general. (It  should be ensured that the selected school child 
does not receive educational assistance from any other fund.)
 (3) Capacity development programs not covered by the quality d evelopment programs conducted by the Provincial 
Education Department may be conducted to develop the knowledge, skills, and attitudes of students, teachers, and 
principals of Provincial Council schools. It should be ensured that the resource persons selected for such workshops 
are experts in the relevant subject.
 (4) Taking measures to provide physical resources to the Zonal  and Divisional Education Oﬃ  ces which are directly 
involved in the education sector  and  which  contribute directly to the eﬃ  cient running of the school system, and 
conducting oﬃ  cer training workshops when necessary, can be done. In this r egard, the relevant tasks should be 
carried out on the recommendations of the Provincial Director o f Education with the approval of the Provincial 
Secretary of Education, and when obtaining resources for traini ng workshops, it should be conﬁ rmed that those 
resources are experts in the relevant subject area.
  Following programs can be implemented under these funds.
  (i) Special programs designed in accordance with national pol icies that can direct children who drop out of school 
to vocational education in accordance with their skills.
  (ii) Providing the necessary equipment for the proper operati on of special education and non-formal education 
units.
  (iii) Preschool teacher training programs conducted by the Pr eschool Unit of the Western Province Education 
Department and training and capacity development programs requi red to regularize and regulate preschool 
education for oﬃ  cers of the Preschool Unit of the Western Province Education Department.  (For preschool 
teachers who comply with the Preschool Statute)
  (iv) If necessary, implement programs to improve the nutritio nal status of school students who have been conﬁ nned 
by health authorities to be nutritionally deﬁ cient.
  (v) Implementing programs included in the National Food Secur ity Plan, Provincial Drug Prevention Plan and 
Provincial Climate Adaptation Plan.
  (vi) Implementing programs to develop the innovative and entr epreneurial skills of school children.
27. The following criteria should be followed when identifying and approving proposals under the subject of Cultural and 
Artistic Activities.
 (1) Identifying and implementing project proposals that will h elp preserve the cultural heritage and inheritance existing 
in the province and pass it on to future generations.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
 (2) Development activities of registered religious places loca ted in the Western Province such as construction and 
repair of buildings, construction and repair of toilets under improvement of sanitation facilities, provision of water 
facilities, repair of  water supply system, repair of electrical  systems  may  be provided  subjected  to a maximum 
of Rupees Five Hundred Thousand (Rs. 500,000/-) per place of worship with the consent of the Provincial Cultural 
Oﬃ  cer of  the  relevant  Divisional  Secretariat Division and t he recommendation of  the  Divisional  Secretary. 
Priority should be given to religious places that have not received any provisions previously.  In this regard, in the 
event that provisions are made again to a religious place that has been provided with the said allocation previously, 
at least 05 years should have elapsed since the ﬁ rst allocation and the provision of allocations should be limi ted 
to a maximum of two sessions.
 (3) For the construction and renovation of  buildings  in  reg istered  Dhamma  schools located in the Western Province, 
construction and renovation of toilets under the improvement of  sanitary facilities, provision of water facilities, 
repair of water supply system, repair of electrical systems, etc., a maximum of Rupees Five Hundred Thousand 
(Rs. 500,000/-) may be provided  for each  Dhamma  school with  the consent of the Provincial Cultural Oﬃ  cer 
of the relevant Divisional Secretariat Division and on the reco mmendation of the Divisional Secretary. Priority 
should be given to Dhamma schools that have not received any allocations previously. In this regard, in the event 
that a Dhamma school that has been provided with allocations is  allocated again, at least 05 years should have 
elapsed since the ﬁ rst allocation and the provision of allocations should be limited to a maximum of two sessions.
 (4) Registered Dhamma schools operating in the Western Provinc e may be provided with essential furniture and 
equipment to maintain Dhamma school activities, and the maximum amount of provision that can be allocated for 
one Dhamma school is Rupees Two Hundred Thousand (Rs. 200,000//-) on the approval of the Provincial Cultural 
Oﬃ  cer of the relevant Divisional Secretariat Division and the recommendation of the Divisional Secretary. In this 
regard, in the event that a Dhamma school that has been provided with furniture and equipment is allocated again, 
a minimum period of 05 years should have elapsed since the ﬁ rst allocation and the provision of allocations should 
be limited to a maximum of two sessions.
 (5) A maximum of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand  (Rs. 200,000/-) may be allocated  for a regional level program 
for the conservation and promotion of traditional dances and ot her art forms, and a maximum of ﬁ  ve Rupees 
Hundred Thousand (Rs. 500,000) may be allocated for a provincia l level program. Furthermore, a maximum 
of eight hundred thousand rupees (Rs. 800,000) may be allocated  for provincial programs for the celebration of 
national and religious festivals. In any special case, if these maximum limits are exceeded, a formal cost estimate 
for that program should be submitted to the Planning Committee and prior approval should be obtained.
 (6) Conservation activities at places of worship containing ar chaeological value shall be carried out subject to a 
maximum of Rupees One Million. These conservation activities sh ould be carried out in accordance’ with the 
approval and recommendations of the Department of Archaeology.
 (7) Provisions may be made for the allocation of musical instruments and equipment (which must be equipment directly 
used for artistic activities) required by government-registered art institutions, subject to a beneﬁ ciary contribution 
of not less than 50% and up to a maximum of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand (Rs. 200,000/-) upon the approval 
of the Provincial Cultural Oﬃ  cer and the recommendation of the relevant Divisional Secretary.
 (8) Project proposals that assist in the development of the cu ltural centers owned by the Provincial Council, “Kala 
ketha” and “Saundaryaya Nikethana”, can be implemented with the approval of the Secretary to the Ministry.
 (9) Provisions may be made for provincial-level projects imple mented with the aim of recognizing individuals who 
have demonstrated exceptional abilities  in various cultural and artistic ﬁ elds, and prior approval of the Planning 
Committee must be obtained if cash prizes are awarded.
 (10) Projects can be implemented with a maximum allocation of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand (Rs. 200,000/-) at the 
regional level and a maximum allocation of Rupees Five Hundred Thousand (Rs. 500,000/-) for provincial level 
programs to implement programs that enhance the enjoyment and artistic abilities of the community. In cases where 

<!-- page 23 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
23A
payments need to be paid to the resource persons, prior approval of the Planning Committee must be obtained.
28 The following  criteria  should  be  followed  when  identif ying  project  proposals  under the Sports subject. Project 
proposals should also be identiﬁ ed to cover the following areas:
 (1) Development of infrastructure facilities related to the pl aygrounds, sports centers and Sri Bodhi Sports Complex 
belonging to the Provincial Council, excluding playgrounds belonging to provincial schools and local government 
authorities.
 (2) To develop the skills of stakeholders involved in sports i n the Western Province
  (i) Conducting sports education programs.
  (ii) Establishing sports training pools and conducting traini ng programs for sports where the need is identiﬁ ed.
  (iii) Conducting sports competitions in various events at the  provincial , district, and divisional secretariat and   
Grama Niladhari division levels.
 (3) Conducting evaluation programs at the provincial level to evaluate sportsmen and sportswomen who have 
demonstrated exceptional abilities in the ﬁ eld of sports at the international, national and-provincial levels, as well 
as sports oﬃ  cials ,and coaches who have contributed to it.
 (4) On the recommendations of the Provincial Sports Director a nd a Sports Oﬃ  cer authorized by the Secretary of the 
Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject;
  (i) Promotion of sports associations/ sports clubs, which pre sent sportsmen/sportswomen to Divisional level 
competitions at regional level and/or engage in sportsmen’s/ sp ortswomen’s training aﬀ airs and which 
are  at  least active for 3 years having registered in the Prov incial council and have had their registration 
updated, and, provision of sports equipment to a non-private gymnasium, subject to a maximum of Rupees 
Two Hundred Thousand (Rs. 200,000/-) once every two years.
  (ii) Providing sports equipment and clothing to sportsmen/spo rtswomen representing the Western Province in 
sports competitions at the district or provincial level and national sports up to a maximum of Rupees One 
Hundred Thousand (Rs. 100,000/-) per person once every two years, based on the recommendation of the 
Provincial Sports Director and based on speciﬁ c criteria.
  (iii) Together with private sector contributions, providing n utritional assistance, with a maximum of Rupees 
Ten Thousand (Rs. 10,000/-) per month for a period of at least one year, to meet the nutritional needs of 
needy sportsmen/sportswomen representing the province in national level sports competitions.
  (iv) Providing ﬁ  nancial assistance up to a maximum of one hundred thousand rupees (Rs. 100,000) to encourage 
provincial athletes who represent Sri Lanka and achieve international level achievements.
 (5) When school sportsmen/sportswomen who represented the West ern Province in the National Sports Festival and 
achieved national level achievements, travel abroad for sports competitions, a speciﬁ c amount of donation not 
exceeding Rupees Five Hundred Thousand will be provided to the relevant sportsmen/sportswomen for the relevant 
trip, as determined by a committee consisting of the Secretary to  the Ministry, Chief Accountant, Sports Director, 
Assistant Sports Director (Technology) on the recommendation of the relevant Sports Oﬃ  cer and District  Sports 
Oﬃ  cer.(This donation should be provided only if no other institution or party contributes)
 (6) Implementing projects necessary to improve the physical an d mntal health of people in the provipce

<!-- page 24 -->

24A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLI C  OF SRI  LANKA  – 13.02.2025
 (7) Properly organizing stakeholders in the sports sector at t he regional, district and provincial levels and conducting 
relevant programs.
29. The following criteria should be followed when identifying and approving proposals under the Youth Aﬀ airs theme.
 (1) Providing a maximum course fee of Rupees Fifty Thousand (R s. 50,000/-) to young people between the ages of 16 
and 35 years for NVQ level vocational training courses for the development of the professional skills of the youth 
community and vocational training targeting the local and foreign job markets as per the agreement of the Skills 
Development Oﬃ  cer in charge of vocational training at the Divisional Secret ariat where the beneﬁ ciary resides 
in and the recommendation of the Divisional Secretary. This pay ment should be paid to the relevant vocational 
training institution only after entering into a contract with the beneﬁ ciary. -
 (2) Implementing projects related to leadership training, attitude and personality development programs, drug prevention 
programs and familiarization with new technology for the youth community in the province.
 (3) Implementing relevant projects to direct students of the p rovince who leave school without obtaining higher 
educational qualiﬁ cations to receive formal vocational education.
30. With eﬀ  ect from the date of enforcement of this Code of Rules, the Co de of Rules relating to the Preparation and 
Implementation of Development Plans in relation to the Western Provincial Council Fund, as amended from time to 
time, published in the Extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2190/25 dated 
25th August 2020, and the amendments thereto, are hereby repealed.
31. Under these rules, if there is any inconsistency between th e Sinhala, English and Tamil texts, then the Sinhala text shall 
prevail.
EOG 02-0114
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.