

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1692$29 - 2011 fmnrjdrs 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'02'11
No. 1692/29  -  FRIDAY,  FEBRUARY 11,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
No. D/ CER/ USP/ 10.
UTHTHAMA SEV A PADAKKAMA
Regulations
THE  Regulations for the Uththama Seva Padakkama published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 156/ 5 dated 01 st September
1981 are hereby amended by the substitution of the following new paragraphs 2, 4, 5 and 7 Therefore in place of paragraph
2, 4, 5 and  7 thereof.
Service Regulation No. 2 : Persons of any rank in the Regular Force of the Army, Navy and Air Force provided
they completed not less than a period of fifteen years reckonable service and possess
an unblemished record of moral and military conduct as at the date of recommendation
is made shall be eligible for the award''.
Service Regulation No. 4 : ''This initial recommendation shall be made by a Board of not less than three Senior
Officers nominated by the Service Commanders and the final recommendations of
awardees being 1% of officers and other rankers from each Armed Force separately
in numerical value shall be scrutinized by a Board appointed by the Secretaty, Ministry
of Defence and submitted to His Excellency the President''.
Service Regulation No. 5: ''The grant of the award shall be restricted to 1% of the officers and other rankers per
annum from within the Tri Services as at the date of 01st January of the relevant year
shall be separately in numerical value''.
Service Regulation No. 7: ''When forwarding a recommendation, the Commander of the Army, the Commander
of the Navy and the Commander of the Air Force shall be the sole judge of the
standard of conduct required and will be responsible for recommending only those
persons who are in every way worthy of the distinction and whose conduct has been
irreproachable throughout their service. The standard required for a grading of
irreproachable shall be a Personal Record clear  of entries for qualifying as at the date
of recommendation for the award and no recommendation should be submitted when
this condition has not been fulfilled''.
By His Excellency's Command,
L
ALITH WEERATUNGA,
Presidential Secretariat, Secretary to the President.
Colombo,
2nd February 2011.
2- 703
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.