

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'22
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 22.07.2016
177
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 178
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"977- 2016 cQ,s ui 22 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'07'22
No. 1,977 - FRIDAY ,  JULY 22,  2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
177
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  12th August, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  29th  July, 2016.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
21 June, 2016.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note .- Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation  (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the  
Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of May 20, 2016. 
N. B.— the list of Jurors in Panadura Jurisdiction Area in Kalutara District for the year 2016 has been published in Part VI of this 
    Gazette in all three Languages. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'22
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 22.07.2016
178
miscellaneous Lands notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/20288(1).
 Provincial   Land  Commissioner's  No.: 
uys$10$ix$1/5/35-A/07. 
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  
LAnD  ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the  Commercial Agricultural 
purpose,  Juwelex Agri (Private) Limited   has requested 
on lease a  State land containing in extent about   2.0016 
Hectares out of  extent  marked  as Lot No.1544 and Part of 
Lot  No. 1546 as   depicted in the  Plan  No. F. C. P. 10 (Lot 
No. A and  D in the  tracing)   and  situated in the  Village  
of  Gageyaya  which  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari 
Division of No.  395 C, Perakanaththa coming  within  the 
area of authority of   Wilgamuwa  Divisional Secretariat in 
the  District of   Matale. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
A
On the North by : Rest of Lot No. 1546 ;
On the East by : Land tracing C ;
On the  South by :  Encroachment Land and Lot No. 1545;
On the West by : Second Road Resrvation. 
B
On the North by : Encroachment Land  ;
On the East by : t racing C (Lot No. 1545) ;
On the  South by :  tracing C (Lot No. 1545) ;
On the West by : t racing E.   
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other Government approved conditions 
and the  following  conditions: -
   Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( 09.06.2016 
on wards) ;
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the  commercial   
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer 
for the year  2016. this amount of the lease must be 
quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the 
amount  as  a result of the  revision will be not  more 
than  50% of the amount that just preceded. 
Premium .- treble of the  annual amount of the  lease  ; 
 (b)  t he  lessees must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 (c) the lessees  must not use this land for any purposes 
other than  for  the  purpose of Commercial                
Agricultural purpose    ;
 (d) this lease  must also  be subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  and  imposed by the  Divisional 
Secretary and  by other  institutions;  
 (e)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (g)  Permission will not be given for any  other sub  - 
leasing transferring  to accomplish the  purpose of 
this lease Bond  until the expiry of 05 years from 
09.06.2016 ;
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land will be leased 
out as requested. 
  
D. T. M. JayaThilaka,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,  
"Mihikatha Medura",  Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
22nd July, 2016.
07-804
PRINtED  At  thE  DEPARtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRINtING,  SRI  LANKA.