

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1045
1045
wxl 1"814 - 2013 cqks 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'06'07
No. 1,814 – FRIDAY , JUNE 06, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1048
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1057
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th June, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th June,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Note.—  (i) Maithripala Sirisena Lakdharu Diriya Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 19, 2013.
(ii) Welfare Society of the School for the Mentally Subnormal Child (Incorporation) (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement
to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 26, 2013.
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,813 of 31.05.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1046
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1047
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1048
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Jul y, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th May, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle T awalama Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Panangala Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Hinidum Pattuwa Galle
(General)
06–02
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1049
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Jul y, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th May, 2013.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Ampara Addalachchenai Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Konawatta Division (Tamil Medium) General, District Secretariat, Ampara.
06–01
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1050
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Jul y, 2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th May, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Ampara Akkaraipattu Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Jumma Mosque Area General, District Secretariat, Ampara
06–03
–––––––––––––––––
SRI   LANKA  REGULAR  AIR   FORCE
Airmen/AirWomen Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force
for Airmen/Airwomen in the trades are given below :-
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required  :–
(1) Aeronautical Engineering Trades :
(a) Air Frame (Male)
(b) Aero Electrical and Instrument (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil,
English languages, Mathematics and Science. A
credit pass for Mathematics/Science is essential.
(2) General Engineering Trades :
(a) Air Craft Welder (Male)
(b) Surface Tech (Male).
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil,
English languages, Mathematics and Science. A
credit pass for Mathematics/Science will be an
added qualification.
(c) Operator Motor Transport (Male).
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil
languages. Possession of a Light Vehicle Driving
License is essential. Priority will be given to those
who possess a valid heavy vehicle driving license.
(3) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
Trades :
(a) Air Radio (Male)
(b) Telephone Mechanic (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil,
English languages, Mathematics and Science. A
credit pass for Mathematics/Science is essential.
(c) Telephonist (Male)
(d) Computer Technician (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and
English languages.
(4) Medical Trades :
(a) Medical Laboratory Technician/Air Force Health
Inspector/Aero Med Technician/Physiotherapist

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1051
Occupational Therapist/ECG/ X Ray Technician/
Pharmacist/Ophthalmic Technician/ EEG/Nurse/
Nursing Assistant (Male/Female).
(b) Dental Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including ordinary pass in English language and
credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil language,
Mathematics Science and one other subject.
Having three passes at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination from Science Streams in one sitting
(Biology/Combine Mathematics/Chemistry/
Physics or Agriculture) will be an added advantage
for selection and a qualification for advance
training under Ministry of Health Services.
(5) Logistics Trades :
(a) Supplier (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including an ordinary pass  in Sinhala/Tamil
language and a credit in Mathematics/Science/
Business and Studies.
(6) Administrative Trades :
(a) Administration Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and
English languages and a credit in Mathematics/
Science/Business and Account Studies.
Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office
package) will be an added qualification.
(b) Clerk Accounts (Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and
English languages and a credit in Mathematics/
Business and Account Studies. Knowledge on
computers (Microsoft Office package) will be an
added qualification.
(7) Operations Trades :
(a) Operations Air (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language and a credit in English language.
(b) Fire Fighter (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and
English languages.
(c) Operation Grounds (Male/Female)
(d) Dog Handler (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language.
(8) Police Trades :
(a) Police (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and
English languages. Priority will be given to male
and female candidates those who measured 5' 8"
and 5' 6" or above in height respectively.
(9) Musician Trades :
(a) Musician (Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
(Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language.
Ability of singing and playing of musical
instrument will be considered as special
qualification.
(b) Other Requirements. –  Candidates must fulfill
the following General Conditions for enlistment
in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force :
(1) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri
Lanka ;
(2) Age : Not less than 18 years and
not more than 23 years
(Male) ;
Not less than 18 years and
not more than 22 years
(female) as at 31st July,
2013 ;
(3) Height : Male - 5 feet 5 inches and
above (Male) ;
Female - 5 feet 3 inches and
above (Female) ;

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1052
(4) Weight : -17<BMI<26 (Male)
17<BMI< 25 (Female)
BMI = Weight (kg)
Height2 (m)
(5) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(6) Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without
spectacles)
(7) Civil Status : Candidates must be
unmarried. (Airmen/
Airwomen is not allowed
to marry until the
completion of two years
from the date of enlistment
and until one year after the
completion of the Basic
Trade Training Course and
which ever is later).
2. Candidates who do not possess the required educational
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 “a” and “b”
will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height, weight
and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height, weight and
vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification
and who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. Any
candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may
at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered
even though he/she may not have the requisite height provided he/
she possess the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force
Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with
effect from the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the
selected trades accordingly. They will be required to
perform combat duties and any type of duty, day and
night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of
Sri Lanka or abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement.– Selected candidates will be enlisted
to the third class of the rank of Aircraftman/Aircraftwomen in the
Regular Air Force and shall be required to serve for 12 years in
which 08 years will have to be served continuously whilst serving
a further 04 years in the Regular Air Force (Reserve) when called to
do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen/Airwomen to extend
for further service on completion of eight years of service on the
discretion of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
6. Official Language Requirements .– The selected candidates
must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government of
Sri Lanka.
7. Pay and Allowances :
(a) The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen
shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman - Rs. 173,100 - 6 x 1,740 - 19 x 2,040 -
Rs. 222,300 per annum.
Leading Aircraftman - Rs. 178,320 - 4x 1,740 - 19 x
2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum.
Corporal - Rs. 183,540 - 10 x 2,040 - 9 x 2,880 -
Rs. 229,860 per annum.
Sergeant - Rs. 187,620 - 3 x 2,040 - 9 x 2,880 - 3 x 3,840
- Rs. 231,180 per annum.
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 191,700 - 1 x 2,040 - 9 x 2,880 -
3 x 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum.
Warrant Officer - Rs. 199,500 - 7 x 2,880 - 14 x 3,840 -
Rs. 273,420 per annum.
Master Warrant Officer-Rs. 223,500 - 13 x 3,840 -
Rs. 273,420 per annum
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated
pay scale applicable to Airmen. Increments in promotions will be
based in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade
efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances - Rs. 6,600 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance - Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Additional hard allowance - Rs. 3,900 per month for
those serving in operational areas.
(4) Special allowance I - Rs. 2,400 per month  (Rs. 80 will
be paid per day).
(5) Special allowance II - 15% of consolidated salary and
Rs. 375 w. e. f. May 2013.
(6) Incentive allowances - After completion of 05 years
service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(7) Ration allowance - Rs. 12,758.40 per month for living
out Airmen (Free messing for living - in Airmen).
(8) Uniform upkeep allowance - Rs. 170 per month.
(9) Interim allowance - Rs. 1,000 per month.
(10) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(11) Travelling.– Three sets of holiday railway warrants
per year (For Airmen/Airwomen/wife/husband and
Children as applicable). One set of railway warrants
per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-
in Airmen.
(12) Disturbance allowance.– When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
(13) Qualification pay.– For personnel who have qualified
in special courses or possess qualifications, which are
of special value to the Service. (Up to maximum of
Rs. 637.50 per month).
(14) Good Conduct Badge pay.–
 Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1053
(15) Re-engagement pay.– Personnel are entitled to
Rs. 300 per month during the period of re-engagement.
(16) Medical facilities.– Provided through Air Force
expense for Airmen/Airwomen and their married
families.
(17) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T. B.
buses for living-out Airmen/Airwomen within a radius
of 30 miles (48 km).
(18) Following Rent allowance are payable to married
Airmen/Airwomen not in occupation of Government
married quarters Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(19) Instructional pay – (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(20) Other allowance.– (Separation and overseas etc.) will
be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(21) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air
Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended
from time to time. All Airmen is contributors to the
Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces)
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows' and
Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme
Regulations 1970.
8. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) All cages of the application should be filled with much
details as possible.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should
forward their applications through their Heads of
Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments
and should bear a certificate to the effect that the
candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of
the following documents when interviews or called upon
to do so :–
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate
issued for the purpose of the Education Code will
not be accepted).
(2) Certificate in support of the educational
qualifications required.
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical Training and or
Experience (if any) obtained from a recognized
institution will be an added advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these
should be from the principal of the last school
attended and the other from the responsible
person who is known of the applicant for more
than two years or from the present employer (If
employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and
cadetting etc.
9. Interviews will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala on 12, 13
and 14 June 2013 from 0900 hrs to 1300 hrs for Male Candidates
and on 17 and 18 June 2013 from 0900 hrs to 1300 hrs. for Female
Candidates.
10. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be
required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an
Air Force Recruiting Board.
11. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews,
he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do not
have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of
the accepted identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted
without the National Identity Card.
12. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected
according to merit order.
13. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt to
influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification
of such candidate.
14. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
15. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not
be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR AIRMEN/AIRWOMEN IN THE SRI
LANKA AIR FORCE
01. Full Name :––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card.)
02. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
03. Applied Trade :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address :––––––––––.
05. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
06. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :––––––––––.
07. District :––––––––––.
08. Electorate :––––––––––.
09. G. S. Division :––––––––––.
10. Telephone Number :––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1054
11. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
12. Married or Single :––––––––––.
13. Gender  :––––––––––.
14. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :––––––––––.
15. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
16. G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
17. Any special qualifications for the post (Eg.- Technical, Training
and Experience etc.) :––––––––––.
18. Details of special achievements in sports :––––––––––.
19. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations :––––––––––.
20. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police give
details :––––––––––.
21. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? If so, give details :––––––––––.
22. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
23. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct.
I have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted
and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates
who are selected as Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air
Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
06–164
–––––––––––––––––
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
THE Judicial Service Commission is calling applications to appoint members to the Wakf Tribunal under the Muslim Mosques and
Charitable Trusts or Wakfs Act, No. 51 of 1956 as amended by Act, No. 33 of 1983.
02. Applicants should be Muslims who are citizens of Sri Lanka.
03. Applications, as per specimen below, should be sent by Registered Post to reach me on or before 06th July, 2013 with words
'Wakf Tribunal' written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Originals of documents should not be forwarded with the application.
04. Applicants are required to produce any or all of the following documents when called upon to do so :
(a) Certificate of birth ;
(b) Highest Educational Certificate ;
(c) Certificate of Professional Qualifications ;
(d) Certificate of the Highest Examination passed in Sinhala/Tamil/English.
05. Applications from those in Public/Corporation Service must be forwarded through their Head of Departments/Corporation.
06. Applications and any other communications relating thereto must be addressed to the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission
and not to any other officer in this office.
S
ISIRA RATNAYAKA,
Secretary (Acting),
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box 573,
Colombo 12,
20th May, 2013.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1055
Specimen Application
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
APPLICATION FOR APPOINTMENT TO THE WAKF TRIBUNAL
1. Full Name  :
2. Name with initial :
3. Permanent residence :
4. Postal Address :
5. Date of birth :
6. Age :
7. Race :
8. Religion :
9. N. I. C. No. :
10. Telephone No. :
11. Educational Qualifications :
12. Professional Qualifications :

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1056
13. Languages which the applicant can read and write :
14. Does the applicant posses knowledge of Muslim Law ? :
15. Is he married ? :
16. Are you an Attorney at Law ? If so, date of enrolment :
17. Past and present occupations (with date) :
From To Occupation
18. Value of possessed by applicant : Rs.
19. Monthly income : Rs.
20. Amount of debts if any : Rs.
21. Were you actively engaged in politics durng the last ten years ? :
22. Are you an income tax payer ? :
23. Were there criminal cases against you ? or are there any pending criminal cases ? :
24. Particulars of Court convictions if any :
25. Personal referees (They should be responsible person who known you well) :
(1) (2)
Name : Name :
Address : Address :
Occupation : Occupation :
Period during which he has known you : Period during which he has known you :
I certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note :
Attach all copies of the relevant certificate with this.
06–82

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1057
MINISTRY  OF  FINANCE  &  PLANNING
Department of Evaluation
POST OF ASSISTANT DISTRICT VALUER
FOR GRADE II IN CLASS III IN SRI LANKA
EV ALUATION SERVICE
THE open competitive exam to recruit persons to the post of
Asstistant District Valuer grade II class in III in Sri Lanka Valuation
Service of Department of Valuation will be conducted by examination
commissioner general in the month of July 2013 in Colombo and
the applications are called only from qualified applicants from
08.07.2013  as per instructions given below.
02. Applying Method :
(a) The application filled by hand writing in language by
which the applicant is going to sit the exam according to
the model form seen in the end of this notice as including
subjects from No.1 to 7 in first page and other subjects in
the next page in the application, should be sent by
registered post to 
“the Chief Valuer” Valuation Centre,
No.748, Maradana Road, Colombo-10 as to reach on or
before the date 08.07.2013 and the name of the exam
should be mentioned in top left corner of the application
in English besides Sinhala and Tamil Applications
additionally. Keeping a photocopy of the application
closely will be useful.
(b) Notify in the left top corner of envelop of the application
as "Open Competitive Exam for the Post of Asstistant
District Valuer ".
(c) The application should be filled in language by which the
applicant sit for the exam. Only the applicants who are
having basic qualifications will appear to written exam
according to the notice of calling application.
(d) The application which is not completed or not filled
following above model form or not enclosed with degree
certificate would be cancelled. Complaints made upon
application not sent by post or delayed would not be
acceptable. The applicant delayed to send the application
till final day of calling will hold the responsibility to
delay.
03. Application and Exam Fee :
(a) Sum of Rs.700 should be paid as exam fee. It should be
paid before final day of receiving application as to be
remitted to head of income in Divisional Secretariat
on13.02.2003 and the receipt received from divisional
secretariat should be affixed in particular place (keeping a
photocopy of the receipt closely will be useful). This fee
is not refundable. Further, the application submitted with
photo copy in the receipt or application not having receipt
would be cancelled.
04. Sitting for Exam :
(a) Exam entry form is issued by examination commissioner
to applicants whose names are listed in the paper
prepared by Chief valuer. (If an applicant not having
entry form, it will be fruitful if could send a request letter
to Sri Lanka Examination Department through fax in order
to get an entry form attaching copies of the application,
receipt of payment of exam fee, invoice of letter registered
post). All candidates are required to submit entry form to
officer on charge of exam hall in examination centre. No
any candidate failed to do so is allowed to sit exam.
(b) All candidates are required certify his signature before
sitting the exam. Applicants wish to sit the exam from a
government institution should certify their signatures from
his department
’s head and the others should certify their
signatures from a principal of a governmental school, retired
principal, Grama Niladhari of Division, Justice of Peace,
Licensed Commissioner, Notary Public, a commissioned
officer of Three armed forces, a state service permanent
officer who is getting monthly salary Rs.240,360/- or above
it,  incumbent of Buddhist temple, or chief reverent Thero,
or a chief of other religious institutions.
(c) All applicants are requested to be present in the exam hall
instructed to they should hand over the entry form signed
by them to the officer in charge of exam hall. The applicants
failed to do so will not allowed to sit the exam. Exam
’s
rules & regulations to be abided by the candidates are
referred in this Gazette notice.
(d) A candidate is required to comply with rules and regulations
imposed by commissioner general regarding conduct of
exam. In case of breaching rules he will be subjected to the
offence determined by Commissioner General. Further, the
decision of Commissioner General is final in matters of
sitting exam and releasing result sheet.
Action: Issuance of Entry form to a candidate is meant
allowing him to sit exam without hesitation and
accepting him a qualified applicant.
05. Identification of a Candidate.– A candidate should confirm
his identity in exam hall as officer in charge of Hall is satisfied with
subjects to offer. For that cause the following items will be
considered :
(1) Identity card issued by commissioner of persons
registration.
(2) A Valid Passport.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1058
06. Submission of Incorrect Information.– If found any candidate
is unqualified to sit exam before or whilst conducting exam or after
exam, his candidacy would be nullified. if found any false information
submitted after joining the service and sitting exam though knows
wrongs, he will be dismissed from the service.
07. Terms & Conditions for Rejoining the Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. it is required to
contribute to pension scheme for widows, widower and
orphans. This appointment is subjected to 3 years of
probationary period.
(ii) According to Govt. Administrative Circulation No.
07/2007, an officer appointed to grade II in class III in Sri
Lanka Evaluation Service is requested to get proficiency
in language in which he joined the service and additionally
in an official language during five years period since date
of appointment. An officer joined the service through
English language, he should excel in an official language
before making his appointment a permanent during the
period of five years. The salary increment for officers
who are not excelled in a language will be suspended till
they become qualified in particular subject.
08. Salary & Payments. – The Salary for this post is monthly
Rs.16,720-10x320-11x365-15x45-30,685 according to the
Government Administrative Circulation No.MN-5-2006A of No.
6/2006(iv) dated 24.08.2007. A salary increment depends on service
excellence and efficiency and passes in exams.
09. Language.– This exam will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English languages :
(a) A candidate should sit exam in the medium by which he
was qualified to exam or in an official languages.
(b) A candidate should answer all papers in a language.
(c) Changing languages whilst sitting exam is not allowed.
10. Exam System.– A written exam in 2 question papers.
Note on subjects :
Question paper I
This question paper is a multi question paper prepared
according to subjects prescribed to obtain a degree in
science stream on Estate management and valuation not
exceeding 25 questions.
Duration: 30 minutes. Total marks - 100.
Average marks to pass: 50%
Question Paper ii
Ordinarily this paper is prepared according to subjects
prescribed to obtain a degree in science stream on Estate
management and valuation.
Duration: 1 hour. Total marks - 100.
Average marks to pass: 50%
11. Necessary Qualifications :
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Having good character, clear eye sight and good physical
condition.
(iii) Be in the age not less than 18 years and not more than 35
years to the date 08.07.2013. (This is not applicable to
those who are in the service).
(iv) Be a degree holder of Science in property management
and art of Evaluation in a recognized University.
12. Recruiting System. – The applicants having qualifications
mentioned on the notice will be called to open competitive exam by
examination commissioner general. The selection will be done as
per the results obtained in the exam. The qualified applicants will
appear to an interview conducted by interviewing board appointed
by Chief Valuer to test basic qualifications :
(i) The open competitive exam for recruitment will be held
in Colombo.
(ii) Vacancies are will be filled on the basis of results obtained
in the exam.
(iii) The chief assessor has right to fill part of vacancies or
abandon filling vacancies entirely.
(iv) if any applicant is rectified as unqualified before
conducting exam or whilst conducting or after conducting,
his candidacy will be cancelled at any circumstances.
Further if found any false information given by applicant
with his acquisition and confirmed after his appointment
he will be discharged from the service.
(v) The chief assessor has right to put off or withdraw any
exams.
13. The applicants should submit following documents when
gives information :
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Degree certificate ;
(iii) Educational or professional certificates ;
(iv) Two character certificates. One is should be certified by
educational director or doctor or professor in the
university ;
(v) Certificate of Advanced Exam passed in Sinhala, Tamil
and English.
Note.– The application of applicant failed to submit
required documents will not be considered.
Chief valuer,
Department of Evaluation

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1059
MODEL APPLICA TION FORM TO RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF
ASSISTANT DISTRICT VALUER
SRI LANKA V ALUATION SERVICE CLASS III GRADE II
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAM-2013
(For office use only)
Medium of sitting exam:
Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
English – 4
(Write English letter in cage)
01. Applicant
’s name:
1.1. Name with initials :––––––––––.
(English capital letters for Ex. Mr./ Mrs./Miss: Silva,
A. B.)
1.2. Full name :––––––––––.
(English capital letters)
1.3. Full name :––––––––––.
(Sinhala / Tamil)
02. Private address: (Sinhala/ Tamil) :––––––––––.
(Inform immediately in case of changing address)
Address sent in the entry form :
03. Male/ Female : Female
(Mark x in suitable cage) Male
04. Married / Unmarried :
1- Married
2- Unmarried
(Write proper number in the cage)
05. Race:
Sinhalese - 1
Tamils - 2
Indian Tamil - 3
Muslims - 4
Others - 5
(Write proper number in the cage)
06. National Identity Card No. :
07. Date of Birth :
Year : Month  : Day :
Age to date 2013-07-08:
Years : Months : Days :
08. Are you a Sri Lankan citizen by descend or registration? Notify
citizenry (give details if by registration) :––––––––––.
09. Highest examination passed in following subjects:
1. Sinhala :––––––––––.
2. Tamil :––––––––––.
3. English :––––––––––.
10. Educational & professional qualifications:
Exam/Degree Y ear of University/ Annual salary
effective Institution
11. Details of present occupation & previous occupation (if
available) :
Department/ Post Duration Annual salary
Institution From          To
12. Are you dismissed from government service?
(If so, give details) :––––––––––.
13. Is it lodged any complaints against you (even if you are in the
service) ? :––––––––––.
14. Are you accused by the court for any crimes? (If so, give
details) :––––––––––.
15. Post office where you paid exam fee :––––––––––.
Money order No. :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
(Please affix money order here )
16. Declaration of applicant :
I declare that all information given by me are true & correct. I
aware will that I will be unqualified to the post if found any wrong
or false information in this application and I will be dismissed from
the service without compensation if found wrongs after I was
selected to this post. .
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1060
17. Certification of head of the department/ or institution :
(Only for applicants who are in state service or provincial service)
I recommend and submit the application of Mr./Mrs.………. who is in the post…………………..in my institution. His/ her
works and conduct are satisfactory. He/she was not charged form any criminal records.
If he/she was selected to this post he will resign or not resign from the service. .
––––––––––––,
Head or Authorized officer.
In Department or Institution.
Stamp of rank :––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–136

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1061
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri L anka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 00 9,340 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 00 950 00
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 00 750 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 00 2,500 00
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 450 00
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 275 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 00 4,360 00
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 00 3,640 00
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 00 1,250 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2013
1062
IMPORTANT   NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2013
JUNE 07.06.2013 Friday — 23.05.2013 Thursday 12 noon
14.06.2013 Friday –– 31.05.2013 Friday 12 noon
21.06.2013 Friday –– 07.06.2013 Friday 12 noon
28.06.2013 Friday –– 14.06.2013 Friday 12 noon
JULY 05.07.2013 Friday — 21.06.2013 Friday 12 noon
12.07.2013 Friday –– 28.06.2013 Friday 12 noon
19.07.2013 Friday –– 05.07.2013 Friday 12 noon
26.07.2013 Friday –– 12.07.2013 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 02.08.2013 Friday — 19.07.2013 Friday 12 noon
08.08.2013 Thursday –– 26.07.2013 Friday 12 noon
16.08.2013 Friday –– 02.08.2013 Friday 12 noon
23.08.2013 Friday –– 08.08.2013 Thursday 12 noon
30.08.2013 Friday –– 16.08.2013 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2013.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.