

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2196$51 - 2020 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'10'09
No. 2196/51 - fridAY,  OctOber 09, 2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-  PG 5151 — 75 (10/2020)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS  REGULATORY 
COMMISSION  OF SRI  LANKA
Radio And Telecommunications Terminal Equipment 
(RTTE) Type Approval Rules 2020
Sri LANkA teLecOmmuNicAtiONS Act, NO. 25 Of 1991 AS AmeNded
ruLeS made by the telecommunications regulatory commission of Sri Lanka under Section 68 read with Sections 5(o), 
5(q), 5 (v)& 5 (w) of the Sri Lanka telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991 as amended by Act, No. 27 of 1996.
 telecommunications regulatory commission of Sri Lanka.
colombo,
17th June, 2020.
Rules
 1) these rules may be cited as the radio and telecommunications terminal equipment (rtte) type Approval rules, 
2020, hereinafter referred to as “rtte type Approval rules”.
 2) rtte type Approval rules shall come into effect on 16/12/2020.
 3) rtte type Approval rules are applicable to all types of rtte intended to be  imported, marketed, manufactured 
or used in Sri Lanka.
 4) rtte type Approval rules are more fully set out hereinafter:
  Part i: Purpose, Scope and Objectives of the rtte rules 
	 	 Part	II:	Definitions	and	abbreviations
  Part iii: Application Procedure for type Approval
  Part iV: type Approval regime
  Part V: regulatory framework

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
2A
TABLE  CONTENTS
      
Part I: Purpose, Scope and Objectives of the RTTE Rules  
1. Purpose 
2. Scope  
3. mandatory requirements for rtte type Approval 
4. Objectives 
Part II: Definitions and abbreviations 
5.	 Definitions	
6. Abbreviations 
7. rules Appendices 
Part III: Application Procedure for Type Approval 
8. t ype Approval Application 
9. Processing of Applications 
Part IV: Type Approval Regime 
10. Standard type Approval 
11.	 Simplified	 Type	Approval	
12. t ype Approval fee 
13. t ype Approval Standards 
14. recognized test Laboratories 
15.	 Type	 Approval	Certificate	
16. t ype Approval register 
17.	 Modifications	to	RTTE	
Part V: Regulatory Framework 
18. Labelling 
19. monitoring and Surveillance 
20. exempt from type Approval 
21. Validity and renewal of type Approval 
22. t ransfers 
23. revocation of type Approval 
Part VI: Importation of RTTE 
24. importation of representative Sample(s) for type Approval 
25. importation of rtte for commercial Purposes and own use 
26. importation of rtte for Personal use 
27. re-exportation of rtte 
Part VII: Appendices 
28. Attachments 
 Appendix A  - Standard type Approval form 
	 Appendix	B		-	Simplified	 Type	Approval	Form	

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
3A
 Appendix c  - Guidance for Preparation of declaration
  of conformity (dOc) 
 Appendix d  - type Approval and Other Applicable fees 
 Appendix e  - rtte type Approval Standards 
	 Appendix	F		-	 Type	Approval	Certificate	
 Appendix G  - type Approval Label 
 Appendix H  - Application for a Permit to import representative Samples(s) of 
             rtte for type Approval  
 Appendix i  - Application for custom clearnace of representative Samples(s) of 
                         rtte for type Approval 
 Appendix J  - Application for a Permit to import rtte for commercial purposes 
 Appendix k  - Application for custom clearance of rtte for commercial purposes 
 Appendix L  -  Application for custom clearance of rtte for  Personal use  
 Appendix m  - Application for Permission to re-export rtte 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
4A
Part 1: Purpose, Scope and Objectives of the RTTE Rules
 1.  Purpose
  1) t he purpose of the radio and telecommunications terminal e quipment (rtte) type Approval rules is to 
ensure a rtte which is to be used in Sri Lanka complies with the regulatory standards setout in these rules and 
requirements for compatibility and safety. type Approval ensures good network performance, prevent distortion 
and degradation of network, avoid interference, safeguard and preserve network integrity and eliminate dumping 
of inferior or sub-standard equipment to the market. 
 2.  Scope
  1) rtte type Approval rules are applicable for all types of rtte intended to be imported, marketed, manufactured or 
used in Sri Lanka. the commission requires that all rtte should obtain the type approval before importing,marketing 
and operating in Sri Lanka.
  2) t he importation of certain types of rtte (to be determined by the commission from time to time) may be exempted 
from type Approval.
	 	3)	 Individuals	 and	business	entities	who	intend	to	manufacture/import/sell/	use	RTTE	should	first	ensure	that	the	
equipment has been type approved by the commission for use in Sri Lanka. the commission maintains a type 
Approval register on its website containing the types of rtte that are type approved by the commission. 
	 	4)	 These	 Rules	require	RTTE	to	comply	with	relevant	technical	specifications	and	to	be	type	approved	by	the	
commission before releasing it to the market. 
 3.  Mandatory Requirements for RTTE Type Approval
  1) All rtte shall obtain type Approval from the commission in terms of the Section 5(q) of the Sri Lanka 
telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991 as amended.
  2) Pursuant to the Section 10 of the Act, the commission is the sole lawful body in Sri Lanka to manage and control 
the use of the radio frequency spectrum. the mitigation of interference among users is one of the main functions of 
spectrum	management.	The	adoption	of	proper	technical	specifications	that	demonstrably	will	eliminate/minimise	
interference	among	the	users	of	RTTE.	Technical	specifications	of	RTTE	shall	conform	to	the	Type	Approval	
requirements	of	the	Commission	that	would	ensure	effective	and	efficient	management	of	spectrum.	
 4.  Objectives
  1) the main objectives of the rtte type Approval rules are therefore to:
	 a.	 Define	the	process	for	the	 Type	Approval	of	RTTE;
 b. ensure the operating frequency of rtte is in conformity with the National frequency Allocation table(NfAt) 
of	Sri	Lanka;
	 c.	 Ensure 	that	RTTE	would	operate	within	specified	technical	specifications		without	causing	interference	to		other	
radio communications  services or   telecommunications  networks and   would not be susceptible to external 
sources	of	radio	frequency	interferences;
 d. ensure that electromagnetic disturbances generated by rtte does not degrade the operation of other equipment 
working in close proximity and  rtte should  have an acceptable level of immunity to  the electromagnetic 
disturbances which may occur as a result	of	the	operation	of	other	equipment	nearby;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
5A
 e. enable the users to become aware of the need to ensure that rtte conforms to national standards setout in 
Appendix	E	and	RTTE	Rules	before	procuring;
 f. Protect the health and safety of end users from electrical hazards or any other harmful emissions that may arise 
out	of	use	of	RTTE	;
	 g.	 Safeguard	users	from	RTTE	that	are	non-compatible	with	the	telecommunications	networks	in	Sri	Lanka;
 h. facilitate competition in the supply of rtte and to stimulate the availability of a wide variety of rtte at 
affordable prices to the users.
Part II- 2. Definitions and Abbreviations
 5. Definitions 
  in these rules, unless the context otherwise requires the following expression shall have the following meanings.
Accreditation:  the process by which an authorized body formally recognizes that a person or an institution is 
competent	to	carry	out	specific	tasks.
Category of RTTE: A term that relates to a broad range of rtte for personal use such as mobile handsets, wireless 
routers,	WiFi/	WLAN,	laptop,	fixed	telephone,	fax	machine	with	wireless	connection,	etc.
Commission: the telecommunications regulatory commission of  Sri Lanka established by virtue of the Sri Lanka 
telecommunications Act, (Amendment) No. 27 of 1996.
Declaration of Conformity (DoC):doc is a sworn statement issued by a manufacturer of a rtte in accordance 
with iSO/iec 17050: 2004 that rtte conforms to these rules and the Standards by issuing such document, the 
manufacturer also declares that they have executed all the tests and measurements that relate to said standards, and 
such tests and measures have shown full compliance with the standards’ reference parameters.
Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC):   emc means the ability of an electronic device to function satisfactorily 
in its electromagnetic environment without introducing intolerable electromagnetic disturbances to anything in that 
environment. rtte should meet emc standards set by the commission before it is placed on the market.
Inductive Loop Systems:	means	radio	apparatus	which	operate	by	producing	a	controlled	magnetic	field	within	which	
a predetermined recognisable signal is formed. examples include shop anti-theft tagging systems, car immobiliser 
keys and door access tokens.
Interface: means (i) a network termination point, which is a physical connection point at which a user is provided 
with access to a public telecommunications network, and/or (ii) an air interface specifying the radio path between 
radio	equipment	and	their	technical	specifications.
Interference:  the effect of unwanted energy due to one or a combination of emissions, radiations, or inductions 
upon reception in a radio communication system, manifested by any performance degradation, misinterpretation, 
or loss of information which could be extracted in the absence of such unwanted energy.
Own Use:  A type of rtte that a person (individual or corporate entity) intends to use for their own activities.
Personal Use: A type of rtte that an individual does not use for commercial purposes.
Radio and Telecommunications Terminal Equipment (RTTE): telecommunications Apparatus employing Wireless 
technologies that capable of communication by means of the emission and/or reception of radio waves propagate 
in free space utilizing the radio spectrum.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
6A
Short Range Devices (SRD): Short range devices mean radio transmitters which provide either unidirectional or 
bidirectional communications, which have low capability of causing interference to other radio communications 
equipment. they are used with either integral, dedicated or external antennas, and all modes of modulation are 
permitted subject to relevant standards.
Technical Standard: 	 Means	those	technical	specifications	published	by	the	Commission	or	other	technical	
requirements	identified	by	the	Commission,	including	interface	or	inter-working	requirements	published	by	network	
operators in Sri Lanka, deemed by the commission to be relevant to the rtte.
Technical Construction File (TCF): tcf is a dossier comprising all the necessary technical documentation required 
for the standard type Approval application.
Testing Laboratory: it refers to “testing Laboratories” as laboratories where the appropriate equipment, supplies, and 
certified	expertise	are	available	to	conduct	tests	with	regards	to	technical	standards,	including	telecommunications,	
emc and health and safety.
Type Approval: type Approval is granted to a rtte that meets a minimum set of regulatory, technical and safety 
requirements of the commission. type approval is required before a rtte is allowed to be marketed in Sri Lanka.
Type Approval Certificate: A document issued by the commission stating that the rtte complies with the 
applicable	standards	specified	in	Appendix	E	of	this	document.
Vendors License: A license issued under Section 21 of the Act to manufacture, import or sell telecommunications 
equipment into the local market.
 6.  Abbreviations 
  doc: declaration of conformity
  eirP: effective isotropic radiated Power
  emc: electromagnetic compatibility
  etSi: european telecommunications Standards institute
  iec: international electrotechnical commission
  iLAc: international Laboratory Accreditation cooperation
  iSO: international Organization for Standardization
  itu: international telecommunication union
  NfAt: National frequency Allocation table
  Pcb: Printed circuit board
  rAN: radio Access Network
  rtte: radio and telecommunications terminal equipment
  tcf: technical construction file
  tetrA: terrestrial trunked radio
 7. Rules Appendices
 1) the rtte rules shall be read in conjunction with the following Appendices in Part Vii which are deemed to be 
an integral part of these rules.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
7A
  Appendix A - Standard type Approval form
	 	 Appendix	B	-	Simplified	 Type	Approval	Form	
  Appendix c–Guidance for preparation of declaration of conformity (doc)
  Appendix d - type Approval and Other Applicable fees
  Appendix e -rtte type Approval Standards 
	 	 Appendix	F	-	 Type	Approval	Certificate
  Appendix G - type Approval Label
  Appendix H - Application for a Permit to import representative Sample(s) of rtte for type Approval
  Appendix i -Application for custom clearance of representative Sample(s) of  rtte for type Approval  
  Appendix J -Application for a Permit to import rtte
  Appendix k - Application for custom clearance of rtte for commercial Purposes
  Appendix L - Application for custom clearance of rtte for Personal use
  Appendix m - Application for Permission to re-export rtte
Part III: Application Procedure for Type Approval
 8. Type Approval Application
 1) An application for type Approval shall be made using the prescribed application form for relevant category of type 
Approval that can be found in Appendix A & Appendix b of these rules. electronic version of the applications 
can	be	downloaded	from	the	official	website	of	the	Commission.	
 2) A separate application should be made for each type of rtte which is intended to be marketed in Sri Lanka. 
One application covers only particular model and/or brand of rtte.
 3) following are the parties eligible to apply for type Approval under these rules.
 a. Organizations/ entities who  possess a valid Vendors  license  issued under Section 21 of the Act to manufacture 
or	import	RTTE;
 b. Persons (individuals/corporate entities/manufacturers or their authorised agents) willing to import rtte for 
their own use after having obtained the necessary approvals from the commission.
 9.  Processing of Application
 1) An applicant who applies for type Approval of rtte shall follow one of the processes, namely:
 a. Standard type Approval –any rtte that has not been type approved before by the commission should 
undergo the Standard type Approval Process.
	 b.	 Simplified	 Type	Approval	-	simplified	Type	Approval	process	should	be	followed	in	the	case	that	the	RTTE	
has already been type Approval by  the commission.
	 2)	 No	 application	for	Type	Approval	(whether	Standard	or	Simplified)	will	be	processed	until	all	required	supporting	
documents referedto in Sections 10 &11 together with proof of payment of the relevant type approval fee are 
submitted to the commission. this may include the submission of any other additional information that is deemed 
necessary by the commission for the purpose of type Approval.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
8A
Figure 1 : Type Approval Process
 
	 3)	 A 	flow	chart	of	the	Type	Approval	process	is	set	out	below	in	Figure	1.
 
START
 
does the rtte 
applied for appear 
in type Approval 
register?
A completed 
Application is received 
with requisite fees
 
 NO  YES 
 
 
 
 YES 
 
 
 
 
Standard type Approval 
ProcessSimplified	Type	
Approval Process
is the 
application 
Successful?
Certificate	issued	and	
type Approval register 
updated
Notify the applicant that 
application has been 
unsuccessfultype
Approval
register
 NO 
 
END
END

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
9A
 4) the commission reserves the right to reject an application made under the rtte type Approval rules which is 
incomplete or which is not supported by all the information requested or as a result of the applicant’s failure to 
comply with these rules. in case of rejection, the type Approval fee will not be refunded. the Applicant may, 
however, address the non-compliance and submit a new application for type Approval when appropriate.
	 5)	 All	 information	presented	to	the	Commission	will	be	treated	as	confidential	and	will	not	be	disclosed	to	third	
parties.
 6) the completed type Approval application together with all supporting documents and relevant application fee 
for either type Approval schemes should be hand delivered or mailed to the following address.
  director General of telecommunications 
  telecommunications regulatory commission of Sri Lanka 
  276, elvitigala mawatha
  colombo 08. 
Part IV: Type Approval Regime
 10. Standard Type Approval
 1) An application for Standard type Approval shall be made using the prescribed application form that can be found 
in Appendix A of these rules.
 2) the processing period of an application for type Approval under the Standard type Approval process takes up 
to thirty (30) working days from the date on which the complete application package has been submitted to the 
commission.
 3) A representative sample of the rtte concerned should be submitted along with the application. the commission 
reserves the rights to require up to two sample units of the rtte being applied for type Approval.
 4) An application for Standard type Approval must be accompanied by a technical construction file (tcf).tcf 
contains all suitable test reports and other supporting documents demonstrating compliance of the rtte with 
the	relevant	standards	recognized	by	Commission.The	format	of	the	TCF	is	flexible	to	accommodate	the	needs	
of different rtte types but it must comply with the format and other requirements of iSO/iec 17050-2:2004. 
tcf should  cover the design, manufacture and operation of the rtte and include the following:
 a. A declaration of conformity: A declaration of conformity (doc) is a document which is drawn up by 
the manufacturer of the rtte on company letterhead and signed by an authorized representative of that 
company,	confirming	that	the	RTTE	complies	with	technical	specifications	(radio,	health	&	safety,	EMC)	
that apply in Sri Lanka. the declaration of conformity in the tcf should be prepared and maintained in 
accordance with iSO/iec 17050-1:2004 standard.
  the declaration of conformity (doc) shall be prepared in accordance with the directions and guidance 
(based on iSO/iec 17050-1:2004 standard) given in the Appendix c.
	 b.	 An	index	or	table	of	contents;
 c. A brief technical description of the rtte including an explanation of the intended use of the equipment 
as	presented	to	the	user	and	any	installation	specific	information	relevant	to	compliance;	
	 d.	 Identification	of	the	radio	communications	networks	concerned	and	any	intentional	radio	spectrum	usage;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
10A
	 e.	 Identification	of	software	and	firmware	that	may	affect	any	network	interface	or	have	an	effect	on	radio	
frequency	emissions;
 f. circuit diagrams and Printed circuit board (Pcb) layouts for those parts of the rtte which have a direct 
impact on compliance with the technical requirements. for example: network interface circuits and radio 
interfaces	(antennas	or	connection	points	for	antennas);	audio	components	in	live	speech	equipment;	line	
signalling;	ports	for	connecting	other	equipment;	power	supplies	and	all	network	affecting	elements;
	 g.	 Photographs	of	both	the	interior	assembly	and	exterior	of	the	product	sufficient	to	permit	a	person	to	
determine	that	a	product	is	the	same	as	that	submitted	for	Type	Approval;
 h. if the equipment is an interface card or module for installation in host equipment, the description should 
give	sufficient	information	for	compatible	hosts	to	be	determined;
 i. if the equipment supports encryption systems, provide the details of the encryption types from the 
manufacturer;
 j. t est reports issued by accredited testing Laboratories recognized by the commission morefully described in 
Section	14	of	these	Rules	should	demonstrate	that	the	RTTE	complies	with	the	relevant	standards	specified	
by the commission with respect to:
	 i.	 The	protection	of	the	health	and	the	safety	of	the	user;
	 ii.	 Effective	use	of	radio	frequency	spectrum	for	radio	communication	equipment;
 iii. electromagnetic compatibility.
 k. A test report is only valid if it was prepared for the rtte for which approval is being applied for and if no 
modifications	have	been	made	to	the	RTTE	following	the	completion	of	the	test	report.
 5) the commission may, where it deems necessary, request the applicant to submit additional supporting documents.
 6) the samples submitted with type Approval application will be retained for a period of two (2) years, other than 
samples of rtte in tables 4&5 of Appendix e,and to ensure the rtte in the market place is identical to the 
sample which submitted to the commission for type Approval. the commission does not guarantee the return 
of the sample in good working condition, since some of type approval tests could be destructive.
 11. Simplified  Type Approval
	 1)	 An	 application	for	Simplified	Type	Approval	shall	be	made	using	the	prescribed	application	form	which	is	in	
Appendix b of these rules. 
	 2)	 Simplified	 Type	approval	is	applicable	for	RTTE	that	appears	on	the	Commission’s	Type	Approval	Register	which	
was approved by the commission  at the time of application is made.the applicants should ensure that the rtte 
applied for is identical to the rtte that is already type approved and appears on the type Approval register.
	 3)	 This	 process	of	Simplified	Type	Approval	does	not	require	the	submission	of	test	report;	however,	a	representative	
sample would be required.
	 4)	 An	 application	for	Simplified	Type	Approval	will	normally	be	processed	within	ten	(10)	working	days	from	the	
date upon which the complete application package has been received.
 12. Type Approval Fee
 1) t ype  Approval  fee is  intended  to cover  the  administrative  costs incurred by the commission  for  operating  
and  administering  the  type  Approval  System, including  the assessment  of  type  Approval  applications and 
market  surveillance. 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
11A
 2) the type Approval fee is non-refundable and is payable by the applicant in advance. 
 3) the prescribed type Approval fee shall be paid at the time of submission of the type Approval application and 
proof of payment for type Approval should be provided with the application. the fee for type Approval will be 
charged per each type of rtte, as set out in Appendix d of these rules.
 4) An initial schedule of type Approval and other applicable fees for the different types of equipment is set out in 
Appendix d to these rules. the type Approval fees may be reviewed by the commission from time to time as 
necessary.
 13. Type Approval Standards
 1) the commission will establish and publish up-to-date versions of type Approval Standards applicable to rtte 
in accordance with generally accepted international standards, protocols and with the international commitments 
and obligations of Sri Lanka.
 2) the initial version of the rtte type Approval Standards is set out in Appendix e to the type Approval rules. 
Appendix	E	lists	the	Type	Approval	Standards	and	Specifications	applicable	to	RTTE	intended	to	be	used	in	Sri	
Lanka.
	 3)	 RTTE	 Type	Approval	Standards	shall	be	classified	in	order	to	efficiently	utilise	the	radio	frequency	spectrum	
effectively and to ensure safety, electromagnetic compatibility (emc) or physical interoperability (which can 
cover optical, electrical or radio systems). the  type Approval standards do not address matters of equipment 
performance or quality.
 4) rtte type Approval Standards in the Appendix e that are based on following international standards:
	 a.	 The	European	Telecommunications	Standards	Institute	(ETSI);
	 b.	 The	International	Electro-technical	Commission	(IEC);
 c. international telecommuincations union(itu)
 5) in the absence of an applicable rtte type Approval Standards, commission shall decide, on a case-by-case 
basis, whether the rtte concerned may be type approved.it is required that all rtte: 
 a. does not generate electromagnetic disturbance exceeding the level above which rtte or other equipment 
cannot	operate	as	intended;
 b. Has a level of immunity to the electromagnetic disturbance  to be expected in its intended use which allows 
it	to	operate	without	unacceptable	degradation	of	its	intended	use;
	 c.	 Makes	efficient	use	of	the	radio	spectrum.
 14. Recognized  Test Laboratories 
 1) the applicants should submit test results only from accredited test laboratories recognized by the commission 
for type Approval. the date of the test report  shall not be older than  three(3) months at  the date of application.
the test reports that are issued by non-accredited Laboratories will not be accepted.
 2) the commission recognizes results of testing performed by a test laboratory which meets the following conditions: 
	 a.	 The	laboratory	is	compliant	with	ISO/IEC	17025	and;
	 b.	 Compliance	to	ISO/IEC	17025	is	certified	by	an	Accreditation	Body,	who	is	a	member	of	the	International	
Laboratory Accreditation cooperation (iLAc).  A list of  Accreditation bodies who are members of iLAc  
can be found by clicking on the link: http://ilac.org/ilac-membership/members-by-economy/

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
12A
 15.  Type Approval Certificate
	 1)	 The 	Commission	shall	issue	a	Type	Approval	Certificate	on	consideration	of	a	duly	completed	application.
thereafter a corresponding entry shall be made  in the type Approval register of the commission. A specimen 
of	the		Type	Approval	Certificate	is	enclosed	in	Appendix	F.	
 2) the commission shall inform all unsuccessful applicants  by a letter with reasons for rejecting the application.
 16. Type Approval Register 
 1) t he type Approval register  shall contain detailed information on all type Approved rtte (make, model, version, 
description of the rtte, type Approval number, name of type Approval holders etc.) by the commission for 
import, manufacture, sale and use in Sri Lanka. the type Approval register is made available to the public on 
the commission’s website. 
 2) the information in the type Approval register shall include, but will not be limited to:
 a. company, Organization, entity, individual, etc.
 b. t ype of equipment
 c. make/model/Version
 d. manufacturer
 e. country of manufacture
 f. frequency band
 g. emission designation
 h. bandwidth and frequency Spacing
 i. t ype of modulation
 j. Power Supply
 k.  effective isotropic radiated Power (eirP)
 3) the commission will also publish a notice to inform the public & industry about the revocation of a type Approval 
and list of rtte exempted from type Approval.
 4) the information in the type Approval register is derived from the application presented for type Approval by 
the applicant. the applicant is responsible for the accuracy of this information.
 17. Modifications to RTTE
	 1)	 Whenever	 RTTE	is	modified	in	respect	of	manufacturing	brand	name,	equipment	name,	model,	version,	design	
or	function,	the	Commission	shall	be	notified	immediately.
 2) A new application for type Approval should be made in accordance with the  requirements of these rules in the 
following circumstances that:
	 a.	 An	existing	Type	Approved	RTTE	is	modified	with	respect	to	manufacturing	brand	name,	equipment	name,	
model, version, design or function or any change that affect any of the information recorded in the type 
Approval	Register	or	the	Declaration	of	Conformity;
 b. changes to the type Approved rtte may affect compliance with the applied standards and requirements 
to	which	it	has	been	previously	tested	and	validated;
 c. Whenever changes to the type Approved rtte may affect a network interface or have an effect on the 
specific	essential	requirements	relating	to	safety,	EMC	or	radio	frequency	behaviour	of	the	concerned	
rtte.
	 3)	 If	 modifications	to	Type	Approved	RTTE	are	essentially	cosmetic	and	do	not	have	any	effect	on	the	specific	essential	
requirements relating to the operating frequency, safety, emc or do not affect the functions of telecommunications 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
13A
Part V: Regulatory Framework
 18. Labelling
	 1)	 Labelling	 is	the	process	of	affixing	a	label	and	a	specified	Type	Approval	number	on	the	Type	Approved	RTTE	
which is supplied to the Sri Lankan market, indicating its compliance with the commission’s approved technical 
standards	and	requirements	for	the	purpose	of	improving	consumer’s	confidence	in	RTTE.	
 2) Printed labels shall be obtained from the commission after payment of the prescribed a fee as stipulated in 
Appendix d.thecost of the labels is additional to the type Approval fee. A specimen of a label is shown in the 
Appendix G of these rules.
	 3)	 All	 Type	Approved	RTTE	shall	have	a	label	permanently	affixed	on	the	packaging	of	RTTE.
 4) the commission shall not take any responsibility with regard to quality or durability  of the product registered 
by the commission.
 5) the commission reserves the right to take appropriate regulatory action against the responsible party who has 
affixed	a	label	found	to	be	faked.
 19. Monitoring and Surveillance
 1) those who manufacture, import,supply and sale of rtte are expected to comply with type Approval requirements 
and	relevant	technical	specifications	of	RTTE	in	which	they	deal	with.
 2) the commission may perform market surveillance activities from time to time to ensure that only type Approved 
rtte is sold in Sri Lanka. Such surveillance activities may result from a complaint, a report of interference, 
visual inspection of rtte in a retail outlet, inappropriate advertising or simply random selection.
	 3)	 The	 authorized	officers	of	the	Commission	shall	be	allowed	to	enter	at	any	reasonable	time	the	premises	of	the	
importer, manufacturer,supplier or vendor places of storage, shops and showrooms for inspection purposes of 
rtte.
	 4)	 Where	 it	is	found	that	RTTE	does	not	conform	to	the	relevant	technical	specification,	the	Commission	will	take	
appropriate measures to withdraw the rtte in question from the market or other enforcement measures that 
may be deemed as appropriate by the commission.
 5) the importers, Suppliers or Vendors of rtte shall cooperate with commission such activities and provide the 
equipment or sample units of it and/or make all the supporting documentation at the disposal of the commission 
on request without delay and without costs. Sample will be returned to the holder at the end of the inspection.
 6) the commission may publish on its website information deriving from its monitoring and surveillance activities.
 20. Exempt from Type Approval  
 1) the following rtte are exempted from type Approval for manufacture,import, sale and use in Sri Lanka provided 
that	RTTE	should	meet	the	relevant	technical	specifications	as	specified	in	Appendix	E.
	 a.	 A	short	range	infrared	remote	control	equipment	includes	TV	remote		controls,	garage	door	opener;
 b. rtte is embedded in desktop computers and Laptops that use short-range radio technologies such as 
WiFi,	Bluetooth;
 c. t ransmitter equipment	with	output	power	below	50	mW;

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
14A
 d. rtte is installed in a vehicle as part of it such as car navigation units, remote car keys that use short range 
technologies such	as	WiFi,	Bluetooth;
 e. individuals who brought rtte into the country for their personal use under the Section 27.
 21. Validity  and Renewal of Type Approval
 1) the type Approval for any particular rtte shall be valid for a period of four (4) years provided that the type 
Approved	RTTE	(supplied	to	the	market)	maintains	the	same	technical	specifications	including	the	operating	
frequency.
 2) the type Approval shall be subject to renewal upon a request from the applicant and other terms and conditions 
(such as violation of rtte rules, customer complaints etc.) as may be determined by the commission. type 
Approval holder shall apply for renewal at least sixty (60) days prior to the date of expiry of the type Approval 
certificate	using	the	prescribed	application	form	in	Appendices		A	&	B	for	relevant	category	of	Type	Approval.	 
No permission shall be granted to manufacture or import rtte if type Approval holder failed to apply for 
renewal before the due date.
 22. Transfers
 1) t ype Approvals are not transferable to another party without the explicit consent of the commission. in case of 
transfer, new applicant should satisfy the commission that appropriate arrangements have been made for them 
to receive the necessary support of the party issuing the doc including access to the supporting documentation.
 23. Transitional Arrangements
 1) t ype Approval Authorisations issued for rtte by the commission prior to the promulgation of these rules will 
remain valid for a period of sixmonths (06) pursuant to these rules. rtte whose type Approval is pending will 
have to follow the new scheme.
 2) Vendor license holders are authorized to import or sell rtte under previous type approval scheme at the time 
new scheme comes into effect for a period of six (06) months from date of new scheme comes into effect.
 24. Revocation of Type Approval 
 1) the type Approval for any particular rtte shall be revoked in the following instances:
	 a.	 At	the	request	of	the	Type	Approval	holder	of	RTTE;
 b. Any information or representative samples provided to the commission  is found to be counterfeited or 
false;	
 c. t ype Approved rtte that has been released to the market does not comply with the applicable type 
Approval	Standards;
	 d.	 Breach	of	these	rules	in	respect	of	the	registered	RTTE;
	 e.	 Type	Approval	holder	repeatedly	fails	to	honour	its	obligations	under	the	Commission;
	 f.	 Modifications	are	made	to	the	RTTE	with	respect	to	the	brand,	name,	model,version,	function	or	any	other	
information	recorded	on	the	Type	Approval	Certificate	and/or	Type	Approval	Register;
 g. rtte interferes with the operation of other radio communications equipment or a telecommunications 
network.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
15A
 2) the commission will notify the relevant type Approval holder in writing of the revocation of their type Approval 
certificate	and	the	reasons	thereof.
	 3)	 The	 Commission	will	publish	a	notification	on	its	web	site	about	the	revocation	of	a	Type	Approval	and	the	
reasons of annulment of the same.  the rtte in question will be removed from the type Approval register. All 
revoked	Type	Approval	Certificates	will	be	separately	indicated	on	the	Type	Approval	Register.
 4) upon revocation of a type Approval, relevant type Approval holder will not be permitted to either 
manufacture,import,sell or exhibit for sale rtte which the type Approval was cancelled. upon revocation of a 
type Approval, any party responsible for supplying the rtte to the Sri Lankan market shall have to withdraw 
the	non-compliant	RTTE	from	the	market	within	ninety	(90)	days	of	the	notification	date.
   Part VI: Importation of RTTE
 25. Importation of Representative Sample(s) for Type Approval
 1) those who wish to import a representative sample(s) of rtte for type Approval shall apply to the commission 
in writing and obtain prior approval. the applicants should ensure that the representative sample(s) of rtte 
which	they	import	is	in	conformity	with	the	applicable	Technical	Standards	as	specified	in	Appendix	E.One	
application covers only particular brand and/or model of rtte. the relevant application forms for permission 
to import representative sample(s) and subsequent customs clearance can be found in Appendix H and Appendix 
i respectively. the maximum number of representative sample(s) for each type of rtte shall not exceed two 
(02).
 26. Importation of  RTTE for Commercial Purposes and Own Use
 1) Vendor license holders shall obtain prior approval of the commission to import commercial quantities of rtte 
that has already been type approved. 
 2) Persons (individuals or corporate entities) are also allowed to import type Approved rtte for their own use 
subject to payment of a fee prescribed fees as stipulated in Appendix d. the permission is only granted to import 
rtte that type Approved under these rules.
 3) following are maximum number of quantities that can be allowed to bring into the country for own use subject 
to following conditions.
	 a.	 Individuals	are	permitted	to	import	total	of	five(05)	units	in	all	categories	of	RTTE	within	a	time	period	of	
one	year	from	the	date	of	first	importation	of	the	RTTE;
 b. in the case of corporate entities, they are allowed to import a total not exceeding 10 (ten) units in all 
categories	of	RTTE	within	a	time	period	of	one	year	from	the	date	of	first	importation	of	the	RTTE.
 4) Persons (individuals or corporate entities) those who wish to import more equipment than the limits set out in 
paragraph 3) are required to obtain a Vendor license under Section 21 of the Act.
 5) the applicants under paragraphs 1) &2) should apply for an authorization for importing rtte into the country 
using	the	prescribed	application	form	provided	in	Appendix	J		and	is	available	for	download	on	the	official	website	
of the commission. No permission shall be granted to import used or refurbished rtte into the country.
 6) if the applicants meet the requirements outlined in rtte rules, commission will issue a letter of approval to 
the controller of imports & exports for the   issuance of an import permit within three(3) working days from 
the date upon which the complete application package has been submitted to the commission. the commission 
may specify particular requirements to be met prior to the importation of rtte.
 7) Applications on certain categories of rtte may require the clearance of ministry of defence in the interest of 
national security and in such cases the timing may be more than one (01) week. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
16A
 8) Applicants  who imported rtte under the paragraph 1) & 2) are required to obtain no objection letter from 
the commission for custom purpose.An application for customs clearance shall be made using the prescribed 
application	form	attached	in	Appendix	K	which	is	available	for	download	on	the	official	website	of	the	Commission.	
the processing period of an application for custom clearance takes up to three (03) working days from the date 
upon which the complete application package has been submitted to the commission.
 9) the commission will   issue no objection letter to Sri Lanka customs for the clearance of goods subject to 
following conditions.
	 a.	 Possession	of	import	permit	by	the	Controller	of	Imports	&	Exports;
	 b.	 Possession	of	appropriate	Frequency	Licence		under	Section	22	of	the	Act	(if		applicable);	
	 c.	 On		the	settlement	of	invoice	charges	in	full	(if	applicable);
	 d.	 No	partial	shipment	is	permitted	unless	prior	approval	of	the	Commission	is	granted;
 e. Goods may be inspected at the relevant port of entry.
 27. Importation of  RTTE for Personal Use
 1) the commission also permits individuals to import/bring/receive a limited number of rtte (complied with 
relevant technical standards in Appendix e) from abroad for their personal use when they return to the country. 
individuals who brought rtte into the country for their personal use should declare to the Sri Lanka customs. they 
should furnish documentary evidence to prove that goods have been declared to the customs when comission’s 
approval	is	sought	for	the	Custom	clearance.		Individuals	are	permitted	to	import/bring/receive	total	of	five(05)	
units	in	all	categories	of	RTTE	within	a	time	period	of	one	year	from	the	date	of	first	application	for	Customs	
clearance.rtte which has been cleared from customs for personal use shall not be sold, hired or rented other 
parties in any circumstances.
 2) An application for custom clearance of rtte for personal use should be made using the prescribed application 
form which is in Appendix L of these rules.
 28. Re-exportation of RTTE 
 1) if an application made under Section 26or 27is rejected, the commission will notify the applicant of the rejection 
and issue a letter of permission to re-export all the rtte rejected on request. the request should made within 
thirty	(30)	days	from	the	date	of	rejection.Failure	to	do	so,RTTE	in	the	question	will	be	confiscated.
  2) in case of re-exportation of rtte for repairs or replacements, an application shall be made to the commission 
in	accordance	with	the	format	specified	in	Appendix	M.
Part VII: Appendices
 29. Attachments
 1) the rtte rules shall be read in conjunction with the following supporting documentations which are deemed 
to be an integral part of these rules.
Appendix A - Standard type Approval form 
Appendix	B	-	Simplified	Type	Approval	Form	
Appendix c - Guidance for preparation of declaration of conformity (dOc) 
Appendix d - type Approval and Other Applicable fees 
Appendix e - rtte type Approval Standards 
Appendix	F	-	Type	Approval	Certificate	
Appendix G - type Approval Label 
Appendix H- Application for a Permit to import representative Samples(s) of rtte for type Approval 
Appendix i - Application for custom clearance of representative Samples(s) of rtte for type Approval 
Appendix J - Application for a Permit to import rtte for commercial Purposes
Appendix k - Application for custom clearance of rtte  for commercial Purposes
Appendix L - Application for custom clearance of rtte for   Personal use 
 Appendix m - Application for Permission to re-export rtte

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
17A
Standard Type Approval Form For Radio And Telecommunications
Terminal Equipment (RTTE)
A.  Category of the Applicant (tick appropriate) 
Vendors License Holder New Application   
individual or company (for own use) renewal       Type	Approval		Certificate
Number
B.  Details of Applicant
Name of company/Applicant
business registration Number.
Name of Authorised representative
Nic Number
Vendors License file Number 
(Not applicable for own use)
Address
telephone fax e-mail
C.  Details of Manufacturer
company Name
contact Person
Address
telephone fax e-mail
D.  RTTE Information
brand Name
model Number
trade Name (if any)
intended use
Hardware Version
Software/firmware Version
country of manufacture
Year of manufacturing
Appendix A - Standard Type Approval Form


<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
18A
E. Type of RTTE (tick appropriate)
 mobile devices
(2G          3G          3.5 G            4G
Amateur radio         
cordless telephones                 Aeronautical  mobile
cdmA   Short range devices         
WimAX   Satellite terminals
Wifi    radio Navigation /tracking
Lte        maritime mobile
WLAN     Navigational Aids       
rfid      Others (please specify)
Private mobile radio          
F. Technical Specification of  RTTE
Operating frequency range
transmit from ………….. mHz/GHz to ……………. mHz/GHz
receive from ………….. mHz/GHz to ……………. mHz/GHz
bandwidth channels
itu emission designer frequency Stability
type of modulation chanel Spacing
transmission capacity rf Output Power
type of Antenna  integral                                                              external  
 
Gain of Antenna   Serial /imie Number
  G.  Test Reports
Name of Laboratory test report issued   
emc test report Number  & date
radio test report Number  & date
Health and Safety test report Number  & date
H.  Details of Declaration of Conformity
issuing body
issuing date
Validity

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
19A
I.  DECLARATION
i, applicant, hereby certify that the information and documents given in this application form is true and correct in all 
respects.		I	confirm	that	the	submitted	sample	is	representative	of	the	RTTE	as	stated	in	this	application	form.
i agree to comply with any terms, conditions or restrictions which the commission may impose and to be bound by the 
Act and rules/regulations in force.
I	shall	abide	by	the	terms	and	conditions	upon	which	the	Type	Approval	is	granted.		I	accept	that	Type	Approval	Certificate	
may be revoked if it is established that i have been granted the type approval based on incorrect information.
Applicant's Signature:                                     date:
Supporting Documentations and Representative Samples
the following list of documents and a representative sample of the rtte should be submitted along with the application.  
1. technical construction file (tcf). (the Section 10 of the rtte rules is morefully described how to compile tcf)
a. declaration of conformity issued by the manufacturer of the rtte  
b. technical/operational documentation of the rtte including user manual  
c. test reports of accredited  laboratory  
d. circuit diagram, Pcb layout, part lists and other relevant design information
e. test reports issued by accredited testing laboratories recognized by commission as per Section 14 of the 
rtte rules
2. Proof of approved tAc by GSmA for mobile devices  
3. Proof of Payment of applicable type Approval fees   
  For Internal Use  
date of Application received 
Signature:Additional details/comments
date of decision on application
Signature:
Certification	Number:																															
(if Application is successful)
reasons if rejected (missing data, etc.)
date of decision sent to applicant Signature:

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
20A
Simplified Type Approval Form For 
Radio And TelecommunicationTerminal Equipment (RTTE)
A.  Category of the Applicant (tick appropriate)
Vendors License Holder New Application
individual or company (for own use) renewal      Type	Approval	Certificate	
Number
B.  Details of Applicant
Name of company /Applicant
business registration No.
Name of Authorised representative
Nic Number
Vendors License file Number 
(Not applicable for own use)
Address
telephone fax e-mail
C.  Details of Manufacturer
company Name
contact Person
Address
telephone fax e-mail
D.  RTTE Information
brand Name
model Number
trade Name (if any)
intended use
Hardware Version
Software/firmware Version
country of manufacture
Year of manufacturing
Appendix B -Simplified Type Approval Form


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
21A
E. Type of RTTE (tick appropriate)
 mobile devices
(2G          3G          3.5 G            4G
Amateur radio         
cordless telephones                 Aeronautical mobile
cdmA   Short range devices         
WimAX   Satellite terminals
Wifi    radio Navigation/tracking
Lte        maritime mobile
WLAN     Navigational Aids       
rfid      Others (please specify)
Private mobile radio          
F. Technical Specification of  RTTE
Operating frequency range
transmit from ………….. mHz/GHz to ……………. mHz/GHz
receive from ………….. mHz/GHz to ……………. mHz/GHz
bandwidth channels
itu emission designer frequency Stability
type of modulation chanel Spacing
transmission capacity rf Output Power
type of Antenna  integral                                                              external  
 
Gain of Antenna   Serial/imie Number
  G.  Test Reports
Name of Laboratory test report issued   
emc test report Number & date
radio test report Number & date
Health and Safety test report Number & date
H.  Details of Declaration of Conformity
issuing body
issuing date
Validity

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
22A
I.  DECLARATION
i, applicant, hereby certify that the information and documents given in this application form is true and correct in all 
respects.		I	hereby	confirm	that	the	submitted	sample	is	representative	of	the	RTTE	as	stated	in	this	application	form.
i agree to comply with any terms, conditions or restrictions which the commission may impose and to be bound by the 
Act and rules/regulations in force.
I	shall	abide	by	the	terms	and	conditions	upon	which	the	Type	Approval	is	granted.		I	accept	that	Type	Approval	Certificate	
may be revoked if it is established that i have been granted the type approval based on incorrect information.
Applicant's Signature:                                     date:
Supporting Documentations and Representative Samples
the following list of documents and a representative sample of the rtte should be submitted along with the applica-
tion. 
1. Proof of approved tAc by GSmA for mobile devices  
2. Proof of Payment of appropriate type Approval fee  
  For Internal Use  
date of Application received :
Signature:
Additional details/comments
date of decision on application
Signature:
Certification	Number			(if	Application	is	
successful)
reasons if rejected (missing data, etc.)
date of decision sent to applicant: Signature:

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
23A
Appendix C- Guidance for Preparation Declaration of Conformity (DoC) 
As set out in the iSO/iec 17050-1:2004, a declaration of conformity (doc) should include the following information:
	 a.	 Unique	identification	of	the	DoC;
	 b.	 The	name	and	contact	address	of	the	issuer	of	the	DoC;
	 c.	 The	 identification	of	the	object	of	the	DoC	(e.g.	name,	type,	date	of	production	or	model	number	of	the	product,	
and	other	relevant	supplementary	information);
	 d.	 The	statement	of	conformity;	
	 e.	 A 	complete	and	clear	list	of	product	standards	or	other	specified		requirements,	as		well	as	the	selected	options,	if	
applicable;
	 f.	 The	date	and	place	of	issue	of	the	Declaration	of	Conformity;
 g. the signature (or equivalent sign of validation), name and function of the authorized person(s) acting on behalf of 
the	issuer;
	 h.	 Any	limitation	on	the	validity	of	the	DoC;
 i. the name and address of any accredited testing Laboratory involved (e.g. testing or calibration laboratory, inspection 
body,	certification	body);
 j. reference to the existence of associated supporting documentation such as that described in iSO/iec 17050-2:2004.
the declaration of conformity and the evidence on which it is based shall be held at the disposal of the commission 
for 5 years after the last rtte concerned has been supplied in the Sri Lanka.
 Description Type of Service Fee (Rs.)
1 Standard/Simplified	Type	Approval	Application	
(New/renewal) 
fixed Wireless 20,000
fixed Wireless (miscellaneous) 20,000
Public mobile 25,000
Private mobile 10,000
Satellite terminals 35,000
Short range devices 7,500
2 importation of a rtte for Own use (corporate 
entities)
Other than Satellite terminals 2,000
Satellite terminals 20,000
3 importation of  a rtte for Personal use 
(individuals)
Other than Satellite terminals     -
Satellite terminals 20,000
4 type Approval Labels (50 Labels Packet) All Services 2,500
5 Additional fee for fast track type Approval 
(Standard) within ten (10) working days All Services 35,000
6 Additional fee for fast track type Approval 
(Simplified)	within	five	(05)	working	days All Services 45,000
7 Issuance	of	Duplicate	Type	Approval	Certificate All Services 5,000
8 type Approval transfer fee All Services 30,000
Appendix D - Type Approval and Other Applicable Fees

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
24A
Appendix E – RTTE Type Approval Standards
these technical standards cover three groups of requirements of compliance imposed by the commission on rtte:
a. effective use of radio frequency spectrum for rtte
b. Protection of the health and the safety of the user
c. electromagnetic compatibility
for the purposes of use of this Appendix to the rules, the following international bodies are referred to:
•	 ETSI-	European	Telecommunications	Standards	Institute
•	 IEC-	International	Electro-technical	Commission
•	 ITU-	International	Telecommunications	Union
the tables 1 to 6 in this Appendix list the technical Standards requirements applicable to all rtte intended to be used in 
Sri Lanka.
•	 Table1-Applicable	Standards-	Fixed	Wireless
•	 Table	2-Applicable	Standards-	Wireless	(Miscellaneous)
•	 Table	3-Applicable	Standards-	Public	Mobile
•	 Table	4-Applicable	Standards-	Private	Mobile
•	 Table	5	-	Applicable	Standards-	Satellite	
•	 Table	6	-	Applicable	Standards-	Short	Range	Devices	
Type of Service Frequency Band
Applicable Standards
Health & 
Safety
Radio Interface EMC
1 Wireless Local 
Loop(WLL)Subscriber 
equipment, and 
Ancillary equipment
3400-3600mHz eN 60950
eN 50385
eN 302 217-2-2
eN 302 217-3
eN 302 217-4-2
eN 302 326-2
eN 302 326-3
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-4
2 WimAX Subscriber 
equipment, and 
Ancillary equipment
2300- 2400 mHz
eN 60950
eN 50385
eN 301 753
eN 301 893
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-173400 – 3600 mHz
3600 – 3800 mHz
3 cdmA Subscriber 
equipment, and 
Ancillary equipment 
452-457mHz eN 60950
eN 50360
eN 50361
eN 300 328
eN 301 526
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-17
eN 301 489-25824 – 834 mHz
Table1-Applicable Standards- Fixed Wireless

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
25A
Type of Service Frequency Band Maximum 
Field Strength/
RF Output 
Power (EIRP)
Applicable Standards
Health & 
Safety
Radio 
Interface
EMC
1 Analogue 
cordless 
telephones, base 
Stations 
and Ancillary 
equipment
(base)
43.72- 46.97mHz
90dBμV/
m@3m
eN 60950
eN 301 796
eN 301 797
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-10(Handset)
48.76 -49.976mHz
2 digital cordless 
telephones, base 
Stations 
2400- 2483.5 mHz 200mW
eN 60950
eN 50385
eN 300 328
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-175150-5350 mHz 500mW eN 301 893
5470 – 5850 mHz
3 WLAN (Wifi 
router)
*only for outdoor 
applications
2400- 2483.5 mHz 200/1000*mW
eN 60950
eN 50385
eN 300 328
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-175150-5350 mHz 200mW
eN 301 8935470 – 5725 mHz 500/1000*mW
5725-5850 mHz 1000/2000*mW
4 WLAN (Wifi 
router) with 
WimAX 
W
i
m
A
X
2500 - 2686 mHz
Network 
dependent
eN 60950
eN 62479
eN 301 753
eN 301 893
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-173400 – 3600 mHz
3600 – 3800 mHz
W
L
A
N
2400-2483.5 mHz 200mW 
eN 60950
eN 50385 
eN 300 328
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-4
eN 301 489-17
5150-5350 mHz 200mW 
eN 301 893 5470 – 5725 mHz 500mW
5725-5850 mHz 1000mW
5 WLAN (Wifi 
router) with 3G
3
G 1920- 1980 mHz
Network 
dependent eN 60950
eN 62479
eN 301 908-1
eN 301 908-2
eN 301 908-6
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-24
W
L
A
N
2400-2483.5 mHz 200mW 
eN 60950
eN 50385
eN 300 328
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-4
eN 301 489-17
5150-5350 mHz 200mW 
eN 301 893 5470 – 5725 mHz 500mW
5725-5850 mHz 1000mW
6 WLAN (Wifi 
router) with 4G
4
G
1710-1785 mHz
Network 
dependent
eN 60950
eN 62479
eN 301 908-1
eN 301 908-2
eN 301 908-13
eN 301 489-1 
eN 301 489-242300 – 2385mHz
2570-2600mHz
W
L
A
N
2400-2483.5 mHz 200mW 
eN 60950
eN 50385
eN 300 328
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-4
eN 301 489-17
5150-5350 mHz 200mW 
eN 301 893 5470 – 5725 mHz 500mW
5725-5850 mHz 1000mW
Table 2-Applicable Standards- Wireless (Miscellaneous)

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
26A
Type of Service Frequency Band Maximum Field 
Strength/RF 
Output Power 
(EIRP)
Applicable Standards
Health 
& 
Safety
Radio Interface EMC
7 radio telemetry/
tele command 
equipment
6765 - 6795 kHz 42dBμA/m	@10m
eN 
60950
eN 
50371
eN 300 330-2
eN 301 
489-1
eN 301 
489-3
13.553 -13.567 mHz 42dBμA/m	@10m
26.957 -27.283 mHz 42dBμA/m	@10m
433.05- 434.79 mHz 10mW
eN 300 220-2863 - 870 mHz 25mW
2400 – 2483.5 mHz 10mW
eN 300 440-25725 - 5875 mHz 25mW.
24.00 – 24.25 GHz 100mW
8 Automatic 
Identification	
System (AiS) 
equipment
161.975 mHz 
12.5 W eN 
60950
iec 62287
iec 61108-1
iec 60945,
iec 61162-1
itu-r m.1371-2
itu-r m.493-9
itu-r m.825-3
eN 301 
489-1
eN 301 
489-3
162.025 mHz
9 tracking, 
tracing & data 
Acquisition 
equipment
456.9- 457.1 kHz 7dBμA/m	@10m
eN 
60950
eN 300 718
eN 301 
489-1
eN 301 
489-3
169.4-169.475 mHz 500mW
eN 300 220-2
10 Animals 
implantable
devices 
315-600 kHz -5dBμA/m	@	10m	
eN 
60950
eN 302 536-2 eN 301 
489-1
eN 301 
489-27
eN 301 
489-31
12.5-20.0 mHz -7dBμA/m	@10m	 eN 300 330-2
5470 – 5725 mHz 500mW eN 301 893
Table 2 - Wireless (Miscellaneous) (continued)
Type of Service Frequency Band
Applicable Standards
Health & 
Safety
Radio Interface EMC
1 GSm (2G) handsets 
and ancillary 
equipment
 880-915mHz eN 50360
eN 50361 
eN 60950
eN 301 511 eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-7
1710-1777.5 mHz 
2 3G handsets and 
ancillary equipment
1915- 1980 mHz
eN 50360
eN 50566
eN 60950
eN 62209-1
eN 301 908-1
eN 301 908-2
eN 301 908-6
(if it supports GSm 
and WLAN:eN 301 
511, eN 300 328)
eN 301 489-1
 eN 301 489-24
(if it supports GSm: eN 
301 489-7)
Table 3-Applicable Standards- Public Mobile 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
27A
Type of Service Frequency Band
Applicable Standards
Health & 
Safety
Radio Interface EMC
3 4G  handsets and 
ancillary equipment
1710-1720 mHz eN 60950
eN 50360
eN 50566
eN62209-1
eN 301 908-1
eN 301 908-2
eN 301 908-13
(if it supports GSm 
and WLAN:eN 301 
511,eN 300 328)
eN 301 489-1 
eN 301 489-24 
(if it supports GSm: 
eN301 489-7)1767.5- 1777.5mHz
4
Wireless 
uSb 
Adapter 
(dongle)
3G/HSPA/4G
1710-1785 mHz eN 60950
eN62311
eN 301 908-1
eN 301 908-2
(if it supports 
GSm:eN 301 511)
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-24
(if it supports GSm:eN 
301 489-7)
1915- 1980 mHz
2300 – 2400mHz
2500–2570 mHz
2570–2620 mHz
WLAN
2400-2483 mHz
eN50385
eN 60950
eN 300 328
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-175180-5825 mHz eN301 893
Table 4 - Applicable Standards- Private Mobile 
Type of Service Frequency Band
Applicable Standards
Heal and 
Safety
Radio Interface EMC
1 Analogue/digital 
Private mobile
radio Handsets and 
Ancillary equipment
136 – 174 mHz 
eN 60950
eN 300 086-2
eN 300 113-2
eN 300 296-2
eN 300 390-2
eN 300 471-2 
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-5400 – 470 mHz
2 Amateur radio 1.800 – 2,000 mHz
eN 60950
 
eN 301 783-2 eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-15
3.500 – 3.900 mHz
7.000 – 7.100 mHz
10.100 – 10.150 mHz
14.000 – 14.350 mHz
18.068 – 18.168 mHz
21.000 – 21.450 mHz
24.890 – 24.990 mHz
28.000 – 29.700 mHz
50.000 -54.000 mHz
144.000 – 146.000 mHz
10450 – 10500 GHz
3 maritime radio
156.025-174 mHz eN 60950
eN 300 698
eN 301 025
eN 301 843
eN 301 489-1
4 terrestrial trunked 
radio (tetrA) 
Handsets and 
Ancillary equipment
380 – 399.9 mHz
eN 60950 eN 303 035-1
eN 303 035-2
eN 301 489-1
 eN 301 489-18410 – 430 mHz
5 citizen band radio 26.960 – 27.410 mHz
eN 60950
eN 300 135-2 
eN 300 433-1
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-13446-446.0825 mHz

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
28A
type of Service frequency band
Applicable Standards
Health & 
Safety
radio interface emc
1 Satellite News
Gathering (SNG) and 
Ancillary equipment
14000 - 14500mHz eN 60950 eN 301 430 eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-20
2 V-SAt and Ancillary 
equipment
6725 – 7025 mHz
eN 60950
eN 301 360
eN 301 443
eN 301 428
eN 301 459
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-12 
12750 – 13250 mHz
13750 – 14500 mHz
27500 – 27820 mHz
28450 – 28940 mHz
29460 – 30000 mHz
3 mobile Satellite 
Service (mSS) 
1610 – 1626.5 mHz
eN 60950
eN 301 426
eN 301 441
eN 301 442
eN 301 444
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-201626.5 – 1660.5 mHz
1668 – 1675 mHz
1980 – 2010 mHz
2670 – 2690 mHz
Table 6 - Applicable Standards- Short Range Devices (SRD)
Table 5 - Applicable Standards - Satellite 
Type of Service Frequency Band
Maximum Field 
Strength/RF 
Output Power
Applicable Standards
Health  
and 
Safety
Radio 
Interface
EMC
1 Wideband data 
transmission
(Wireless LAN 
-Wifi )
2400-2483.5 mHz 200mW
eN 60950 eN 300 328 eN 301 489-1
eN301 489-175150-5350 mHz 200mW
5470 -5725 mHz 1000mW eN 301 893
5725-5875 mHz 1000mW
2 bluetooth 
equipment
2400 –2483.5 mHz 100mW eN 60950 eN 300 328
eN 300 440
eN 301 489-1
eN301 489-17

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
29A
Type of Service Frequency Band
Maximum Field 
Strength/RF 
Output Power
Applicable Standards
Health  
and 
Safety
Radio 
Interface
EMC
3 inductive 
Applications 
9- 59.75 kHz 72dBμA/m	@	10m
eN 60950 eN300 330-2 eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-3
60.250-70.000 kHz 69dBμA/m	@	10m
70-119 kHz 42dBμA/m	@	10m
119-135 kHz 66dBμA/m	@	10m
135-140 kHz 42dBμA/m	@10m
140-148.5 kHz 
37.7dBμA/m	
@10m315-340mHz
6765 – 6795kHz 42dBμA/m	@10m
7400 – 8800 kHz 9dBμA/m	@10m
13.553-13.567 mHz 42dBμA/m	@10m eN 302 291-2
26.957-27.283 mHz 42dBμA/m	@10m eN 300 330-2
4 Wireless 
microphones
29.7 - 47.0 mHz
10mW eN 60950
eN 300 422
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-9173.7 -175.1 mHz
863 - 865 mHz eN 300 422
eN 301 357
5 Hearing/Audio 
assistance aids
169.40 -175.00 mHz 500mW
eN 60950 eN 300 220-1
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-9
180.00 – 200.00 
mHz
112dBμV/m	@10m
230-234.75mHz
487.00 – 507.00 
mHz
6 Alarms 169.475-169.4875 
mHz 10mW eN 60950 eN 300 220-2 eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-3169.587-
169.600mHz
869.30 -869.40 mHz
868.600-868.70 
mHz
7 Active medical
implant 
devices
9-315kHz 30dBμA/m	@10m
eN 60950 
eN 302 195
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-27
eN 301 489-31
30– 37.5 mHz 1 mW eN 302 510
401 – 402 mHz
25	μW
eN 302 537
402 – 405 mHz eN 301 839
405 – 406 mHz eN 302 537
8 radio 
frequency 
Identification	
(rfid) 
equipment
125kHz 1000mW
eN 60950
eN 300 330
eN 302 291
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-3
13.553-13.567 mHz 60dBμA/m	@10m
2446-2454 mHz 500mW eN 300 440
865.0-865.6 mHz 100mW eN 302 208
865.6-867.6 mHz 2000mW
867.6-869.0 mHz 1000mW

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
30A
Type of 
Service Frequency Band
Maximum Field 
Strength/RF 
Output Power
Applicable Standards
Health  
and 
Safety
Radio 
Interface
EMC
9 radio 
determination 
(detection of 
movement
equipment) 
Systems 
2400 – 2483.5 mHz
25mW
eN 60950 eN 300 440-2
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-3
9200 – 9500 mHz
9500 - 9975 mHz
10.5 – 10.6 GHz 500mW
13.4 – 14.0 GHz 25mW
24.05 – 24.25 GHz 100mW
10 Animals 
implantable
devices 
315-600 kHz -5dBμA/m	@	10m	
eN 60950
eN 302 536-2 eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-27
eN 301 489-3112.5-20.0 mHz -7dBμA/m	@10m	 eN 300 330-2
11 car Smart key 
Systems
433  mHz – 435 
mHz
10mW eN 60950 eN 300 220 eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-3
12 car 
immobilizers  
and Alarm 
Systems
9 kHz – 148.5 kHz 72dBμA/m	@	10m
eN 60950 eN 302 291
eN 300 330
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-3
3155 kHz – 400 kHz 13.5dBμA/m@10	
m
6765  – 6795 kHz 42dBμA/m	@10	m
7400  – 8800 kHz 9dBμA/m	@	10	m
13.553 – 13.567 mHz 60dBμA/m@	10	m
26.957 – 27.283 mHz 42dBμA/m	@10	m
433mHz – 435mHz 10mW eN 300 220
13 road 
transport 
and	Traffic	
telematics
5795 – 5805 mHz 2000mW
eN60950
eN 300 674-2
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-35805 – 5815 mHz 2000mW
24050 – 24250 mHz 100mW eN 302 288-2
14 remote 
controls of 
Garage door, 
cameras and  
toys
26.96 – 27.28 mHz
100mW
eN 60950 eN 300 220-1 eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-3
34.995 – 35.225 mHz
40.665 – 40.695 mHz
500mW 40.77 – 40.83 mHz
72.13 – 72.21 mHz
15 remote 
controls of 
Aircraft and 
Glider models
26.96 – 27.28 mHz
500mW eN 60950 eN 300 220-1 eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-329.70 – 30.00 mHz
16 Zigbee 
equipment
902- 928 mHz
100mW
eN 60950 eN 300 220-2 eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-3
eN 301 489-172400 -2483.5 mHz eN 300 328
17 ultra Wide 
band (uWb) 
technology 
Applications 
1600 - 2700 mHz -85dbm/mHz
eN 60950
eN 302 066-2
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-32
eN 301 489-33
2700 - 3400mHz -70dbm/mHz
3400 -4800 mHz -70dbm/mHz eN 302 065
eN 302 066-2
4800 - 6000 mHz -70dbm/mHz eN 302 066-2
6000 - 8500 mHz -41.3dbm/mHz eN 302 065
eN 302 066-2
eN 302 500-2
8500– 10600 mHz -65dbm/mHz
eN 302 066Above 10600 mHz -85dbm/mHz

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
31A
Table 6 – Short Range Devices (SRD) (continued)
Type of 
Service
Frequency Band
Maximum Field 
Strength/RF 
Output Power
Applicable Standards
Health  
and 
Safety
Radio 
Interface
EMC
18 Short range 
radar 
10500 -10600 mHz 500mW
eN 60950
eN 300 440-2
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-324050– 24250 mHz 100mW eN 300 440-2
eN 302 288-2
57000 – 64000 mHz -41.3dbm/mHz eN 302 372-2
75000 – 85000 mHz
19
Non-Specific	
Short
range devices
6765 - 6795 kHz
42dBμA/m@10m
eN 60950
eN 300 330-2
eN 301 489-1
eN 301 489-3
13.553 - 13.567 mHz 
26.957 - 27.283 mHz 
40.660 - 40.700 mHz 10mW
eN 300 220-2434.040 -434.790 mHz 10mW 
863.000 -870.000 mHz 25mW
869.400 -869.650 mHz 500mW 
2400 - 2483.5 mHz 10mW 
eN 300 440-25725 - 5875 mHz 25mW 
24000 - 25000 mHz 100mW 
Note: the dynamic frequency Selection (dfS) and transmit Power control (tPc) requirements as stipulated in itu-r 
recommendation m.1652 should apply as follows on the use of 5 GHz band(5150-5350 mHz, 5470 – 5725 mHz, 5725-
5875 mHz) applications.
Parameter Value
dfS detection threshold -62 dbm
channel Availability check time 60 sec prior to channel use
Non Occupancy Period 30 min
channel move time 10 sec
Automatic transmit Power control At least 3db on average (all devices)
Key to Standards
A. Health and Safety Standards
EN 50360
Product standard to demonstrate the compliance of mobile phones with the basic restrictions related to human exposure to 
electromagnetic	fields	(300MHz	-	3	GHz).
EN 50361
Basic	standard	for	the	measurement	of	Specific	Absorption	Rate	related	to	human	exposure	to	electromagnetic	fields	from	
mobile phones (300 mHz – 3 GHz).

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
32A
EN 50371 
Generic standard to demonstrate the compliance of low power electronic and electrical apparatus with the basic restrictions 
related	to	human	exposure	to	electromagnetic	fields	(10	MHz-300	GHz)–	General	public	(Lessthan	20mW)
EN 50385
Product standard to demonstrate the compliance of radio base stations and fixed terminal stations for wireless telecommunication 
systems	with	the	basic	restrictions	or	the	reference	levels	related	to	human	exposure	to	radio	frequency	electromagnetic	fields	
(110 mHz - 40 GHz) – General public.
EN 50566 
Applies to any wireless communication devices intended to be used with the radiating part of the equipment in close proximity 
to the human body (i.e. less than 200 mm) including devices operated in front of the face. the frequency range covered is 
30 mHz to 6 GHz.
EN 60950
Safety of information technology equipment.
EN 62209-1
Human	exposure	to	radio	frequency	fields	from	hand	-held	and	body	-mounted	wireless	communication	devices—Human	
models,	instrumentation,	and	procedures	—Part	1:	Procedure	to	determine	the	specific	absorption	rate	(SAR)	for	hand	-held	
devices used in close proximity to the ear (frequency range of 300 mHz to 3 GHz).
EN 62311 
A	generic	standard	that	is	applicable	for	all	electrical	and	electronic	equipment	that	are	not	covered	by	a	specific	EMF	product	
standard. Several emf standards exist for various categories of electronic products.
EN 62479
Assessment of the compliance of low power electronic and electrical equipment with the basic restrictions related to human 
exposure	to	electromagnetic	fields	(10	MHz	to	300	GHz)	is	listed	in	the	Official	Journal	of	the	European	Union	as	a	Harmonized	
Standard under the r&tte directive.
b. Radio Interface Standards
EN 300 086-1
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Land	Mobile	Service;	Radio	equipment	with	an	internal	or	
external	RF	connector	intended	primarily	for	analogue	speech;	Part	1:	Technical	characteristics	and	methods	of	measurement.
EN 300 086-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Land	Mobile	Service;	Radio	equipment	with	an	internal	
or	external	RF	connector	intended	primarily	for	analogue	speech;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	covering	essential	requirements	
under article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
33A
EN 300 113-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Land	mobile	Service;	Radio	equipment	intended	for	the	
transmission	of	data	(and/or	speech)	using	constant	or	non-constant	envelope	modulation	and	having	an	antenna	connector;	
Part 2: Harmonized eN covering essential requirements under article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 300 135-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Angle	modulated	Citizens	Band	radio	equipment	(CEPT	
Pr 27 radio equipment). Part 2: Harmonized eN covering essential requirements under article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 300 220-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM)	—	Short	Range	Devices	(SRD);	Radio	equipment	to	be	
used	in	the	25	MHz	to	1	000	MHz	frequency	range	with	power	levels	ranging	up	to	500	mW;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	covering	
essential requirements under Article 3(2) of the r&tte directive.
EN 300 296-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Land	Mobile	Service;	radio	equipment	using	integral	
antennas	intended	primarily	for	analogue	speech;	Part	2:	Harmonised	EN	covering	essential	requirements	under	Article	3.2	
of the r&tte directive.
EN 300 328
electromagnetic compatibility and radio spectrum matters (erm) .- Wideband transmission systems - data transmission 
equipment operating in the 2,4 GHz iSm band and using wide band modulation techniques - Harmonized eN covering 
essential requirements under article 3(2) of the r&tte directive.
EN 300 330-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Short	Range	Devices	(SRD);	Radio	equipment	in	the	
frequency	range	9	kHz	to	25	MHz	and	inductive	loop	systems	in	the	frequency	range	9	kHz	to	30	MHz;	Part	2:	Harmonized	
eN under article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 300 390-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Land	Mobile	Service;	Radio	Equipment	intended	for	
the transmission of data (and speech) and using an integral antenna. Part 2: Harmonized eN covering essential requirements 
under article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 300 422-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Wireless	microphones	in	the	25	MHz	to	3	GHz	frequency	
range;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	covering	essential	requirements	under	the	R&TTE	directive.
EN 300 433-1
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Citizens'	Band	(CB)	radio	equipment;	Part	1:	Technical	
characteristics and methods of measurement.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
34A
EN 300 440-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Short	Range	Devices	(SRD);	Radio	equipment	to	be	used	
in	the	1	GHz	to	40	GHz	frequency	range;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	under	article	3.2	of	the	R&TTE	directive.
EN 300 471-2 
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Land	Mobile	Service;	Access	protocol,	occupation	
rules and corresponding technical characteristics of radio equipment for the transmission of data on shared channels. Part 2: 
Harmonized eN covering essential requirements under article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 300 674
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Road	Transport	and	Traffic	Telematics	(RTTT);	Dedicated	
Short range communication (dSrc) transmission equipment (500 kbit/s / 250 kbit/s) operating in the 5,8 GHz industrial, 
Scientific	and	Medical	(ISM)	band.
EN 300 698 
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);Radio	telephone	transmitters	and	receivers	for	the	
maritime	mobile	service	operating	in	the	VHFbands	used	on	inland	waterways;	Part	1:	Technical	characteristics	and	methods	
of measurement.
EN 300 698
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);Radio	telephone	transmitters	and	receivers	for	the	maritime	
mobile service operating in the VHfbands used on inland waterways.
EN 300 718-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Avalanche	Beacons;	Transmitter-receiver	systems;	Part	
2: Harmonized eN covering essential requirements of article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 301 025
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	VHF	radiotelephone	equipment	for	general	communications	
and associated equipment for class "d" digital Selective calling (dSc).
EN 301 357-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Cordless	audio	devices	in	the	range	25	MHz	to	2	000	
MHz;	Consumer	radio	microphones	and	in-ear	monitoring	systems	operating	in	the	CEPT	harmonised	band	863	MHz	to	865	
MHz;	Part	2:	Harmonised	EN	covering	essential	requirements	under	the	R&TTE	directive.
EN 301 360
Satellite	Earth	stations	and	Systems	(SES);	Harmonised	EN	for	Satellite	Interactive	Terminal	(SIT)	and	Satellite	User	
terminals (Sut) transmitting towards satellites in geostationary orbit in the 27.5 – 29.5 GHz frequency bands covering 
essential requirements under article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
35A
EN 301 426
Satellite	earth	stations	and	Systems	(SES);	Harmonised	EN	for	low	data	rateland	mobile	satellite	earth	stations	(LMES)	
operating in the 1.5/1.6 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirements under Article 3(2) of the r & tte directive.
EN 301 428
Satellite	Earth	stations	and	Systems	(SES);	Harmonised	EN	for	Very	Small	Aperture	Terminal	(VSAT);	Transmit-only,	
transmit/receive or receive-only satellite earth stations operating in the 11/12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential 
requirements under article 3(2) of the r&tte directive.
EN 301 430
Satellite	Earth	stations	and	Stations	(SES);	Harmonised	EN	for	Satellite	News	Gathering	Transportable	Earth	Stations	 
(SNG teS) operating in the11-12/13-14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirements underArticle 3(2) of the 
r&tte directive.
EN 301 441
Satellite	Earth	stations	and	Systems	(SES);	Harmonised	EN	for	Mobile	Earth	Stations	(MES),	including	handheld	earth	
stations,for Satellite Personal communications Networks (S-PcN) in the 1.6/2.4 GHz bands under the mobile Satellite 
Service (mSS) covering essential requirements under article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 301 442
Satellite	Earth	stations	and	Systems	(SES);	Harmonised	EN	for	Mobile	Earth	Stations	(MES),	including	handheld	earth	
stations, for Satellite Personal communications Networks (S-PcN) in the 2.0 GHz bands under the mobile Satellite Service 
(mSS) covering essential requirements under article 3.2 of the r & tte directive.
EN 301 443
Satellite	Earth	stations	and	Systems	(SES);	Harmonised	EN	for	Very	Small	Aperture	Terminal	(VSAT);	Transmit-only,	
transmit-and-receive, receive only satellite earth stations operating in the 4GHz and 6GHz frequency bands covering essential 
requirements under article 3.2 of the r & tte directive.
EN 301 444
Satellite	Earth	stations	and	Systems	(SES);	Harmonised	EN	for	Land	Mobile	Earth	Stations	(LMES)	operating	in	the	1.5	
GHz and 1.6 GHz bands providing voice and /or data communications covering essential requirements under article 3.2 of 
the r & tte directive.
EN 301 459 
Satellite	Earth	stations	and	Systems	(SES);	Harmonised	EN	for	Satellite	Interactive	Terminal	(SIT)	and	Satellite	User	
terminals (Sut) transmitting towards satellites in geostationary or bit in the 29.5 – 30.0 GHz frequency bands covering 
essential requirements under article 3.2 of the r & tte directive.
EN 301 511
Global	system	for	mobile	communications	(GSM);	Harmonised	standard	for	mobile	stations	in	the	GSM	900	and	GSM	1800	
bands covering essential requirements under Article 3(2) of the r & tte directive.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
36A
EN 301 526
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Harmonized	EN	for	CDMA	spread	spectrum	mobile	
stations operating in the 450 mHz cellular band (cdmA 450) and 410, 450 and 870 mHz PAmr bands (cdmA-PAmr) 
covering essential requirements of article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 301 753
Fixed	Radio	Systems;	Multipoint	equipment	and	antennas;	Generic	harmonized	standard	for	multipoint	digital	fixed	radio	
systems and antennas covering the essential requirements under article 3.2 of the directive 1999/5/ec.
EN 301 783-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Land	Mobile	Service;	Commercially	available	amateur	
radio	equipment;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	covering	essential	requirements	under	article	3.2	of	the	R&TTE	Directive.
EN 301 796
electromagnetic compatibility and radio spectrum matters (erm) - Harmonized eN for ct1 and ct1+ cordless telephone 
equipment covering essential requirements under Article 3(2) of the r&tte directive. 
EN 301 797
electromagnetic compatibility and radio spectrum matters (erm) - Harmonized eN for ct2 cordless telephone equipment 
covering essential requirements under Article 3(2) of the r&tte directive.
EN 301 839-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Short	Range	Devices	(SRD);	Ultra	Low	Power	Active	
Medical	Implants	(ULPAMI)	and	Peripherals	(ULP-AMI-P)	operating	in	the	frequency	range	402	MHz	to	405	MHz;	Part	2:	
Harmonized eN covering essential requirements of article 3(2) of the r&tte directive.
EN 301 843 
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	
marine radio equipment and services.
EN 301 893
Broadband	Radio	Access	Networks	(BRAN);	5	GHz	high	performance	RLAN;	Harmonized	EN	covering	the	essential	
requirements of article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 301 908-1
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Base	Stations	(BS)	and	User	Equipment	(UE)	for	IMT-
2000	Third-Generation	cellular	networks;	Part	1:	Harmonized	EN	for	IMT-2000,	introduction	and	common	requirements,	
covering essential requirements of article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 301 908-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Base	Stations	(BS),	Repeaters	and	User	Equipment	
(UE)	for	IMT-2000	Third-	Generation	cellular	networks;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	for	IMT-2000,	CDMA	Direct	Spread	 
(utrA fdd) (ue) covering essential requirements of article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
37A
EN 301 908-6
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Base	Stations	(BS),	Repeaters	and	User	Equipment	(UE)	
for	IMT-2000	Third-	Generation	cellular	networks;	Part	6:	Harmonized	EN	for	IMT-2000,	CDMA	TDD	(UTRA	TDD)	(UE)	
covering essential requirements of article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 301 908-13 
Harmonized eN for imt-2000, evolved universal terrestrial radio Access (e-utrA) (ue) covering the essential requirements 
of article 3.2 of the r&tte directive.
EN 302 065
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Ultra	Wideband	(UWB)	technologies	for	communication	
purposes;	Harmonized	EN	covering	the	essential	requirements	of	article	3.2	of	the	R&TTE	directive.
EN 302 066-2
Electromagnetic 	compatibility	 and	Radio	spectrum	 Matters	 (ERM);	Ground	 and	Wall-	Probing	 Radar	applications	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
(GPR/WPR)	imaging	systems;	Part	2:Harmonized	EN	covering	essential	requirements	of	article	3.2	of	the	R	&	TTE	directive.
EN 302 195-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Radio	equipment	in	the	frequency	range	9	kHz	to	315	
kHz	for	Ultra	Low	Power	Active	Medical	Implants	(ULP-AMI)	and	accessories;	Part	2:	Harmonize	EN	covering	essential	
requirements of article 3(2) of the r&tte directive.
EN 302 208
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	RadioFrequency	Identification	Equipment	operating	in	
the	band	865	MHz	to	868MHz	with	power	levels	up	to	2	W;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	under	article	3.2of	the	R&TTE	directive.
EN 302 217-2-2
Fixed	Radio	Systems;	Characteristics	and	requirements	for	point-to-point	equipment	and	antennas;	Part	2	2:	Harmonized	
eN covering essential requirements of article 3.2 of the r&tte directive for digital systems operating in frequency bands 
where frequency co-ordination is applied.
EN 302 217-3
Fixed	Radio	Systems;	Characteristics	and	requirements	for	point-to-point	equipment	and	antennas;	Part	3:	
Harmonized eN covering essential requirements of article 3.2 of the r&tte directive for equipment operating in frequency 
bands where frequency co-ordination is applied.
EN 302 217-4-2
fixed radio Systems — characteristics and requirements for point-to-point equipment and antennas — Part 4-2: Harmonized 
eN covering essential requirements of Article 3(2) of r&tte directive for antennas.
EN 302 288-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM)	-	Short-range	Devices	-	Road	Transport	and	Traffic	
telematics (rttt) - Short-range radar equipment operating in the 24 GHz range - Part 2: Harmonized eN covering essential 
requirements of article 3(2) of the r&tte directive.

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
38A
EN 302 291
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Short	Range	Devices	(SRD);	Close	Range	Inductive	
Data	Communication	equipment	operating	at	13.56	MHz;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	under	article	3.2of	the	R&TTE	directive.
EN 302 326-2
fixed radio Systems — multipoint equipment and Antennas - Part 2: Harmonised eN covering the essential requirements 
of Article 3(2) of the r & tte directive for multipoint radio equipment.
EN 302 326-3
fixed radio Systems — multipoint equipment and antennas - Part 3: Harmonised eN covering the essential requirements 
of Article 3(2) of the r & tte directive for multipoint radio Antennas.
EN 302 372-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Short	Range	Devices;	Equipment	for	Detection	and	
Movement;	Tank	Level	Probing	Radar	(TLPR)	operating	in	the	frequency	bands	5,8	GHz,	10	GHz,	25	GHz,	61	GHz	and	77	
GHz;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	under	article	3.2	of	the	R	&	TTE	Directive
EN 302 500
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	ShortRange	Devices	(SRD)	using	Ultra	Wideband	(UWB)	
technology;	LocationTracking	equipment	operating	in	the	frequency	range	from	6	GHz	to	8,5GHz;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	
covering essential requirements of article 3.2of the r&tte directive.
EN 302 510-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Radio	equipment	in	the	frequency	range	30	MHz	to	37,5	
MHz	for	Ultra	Low	Power	Active	Medical	Membrane	Implants	and	Accessories;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	covering	essential	
requirements of article 3(2) of the r & tte directive.
EN 302 536
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Short	Range	Devices	(SRD);	Radio	equipment	in	the	
frequency	range	315	kHz	to600	kHz;	Part	2:	Harmonized	EN	covering	essential	requirements	of	article3(2)	of	the	R	&	TTE	
directive.
EN 302 537-2
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Short	Range	Devices	(SRD);	Ultra	Low	Power	Medical	
Data	Service	Systems	operating	in	the	frequency	range	401	MHz	to	402	MHz	and	405	MHz	to	406	MHz;	Part	2:	Harmonized	
eN covering essential requirements of article 3(2) of the r & tte directive.
EN 303 035-1
Harmonized eN for tetrA equipment covering essential requirements under Article 3(2) of the r & tte directive — Part 
1: V oice plus data (V+d).
EN 303 035-2
Terrestrial	Trunked	Radio	(TETRA);	Harmonised	EN	for	TETRA	equipment	covering	essential	requirements	under	article	
3.2	of	the	R	&	TTE	Directive;	Part 2: direct mode Operation.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
39A
IEC 62287
maritime navigation and radio communication equipment and systems – class b shipborne equipment of the automatic 
identification	system	(AIS).
IEC 61108-1
maritime navigation and radio communication equipment and systems – Global navigation satellite systems.
IEC 60945
maritime navigation and radio communication equipment and systems – General requirements – methods of testing and 
required test results.
IEC 61162-1
maritime navigation and radio communication equipment and systems – digital interfaces.
c. Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) Standards
EN 301 489-1
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	radio	
equipment	and	services;	Part	1:	Common	technical	requirements.
EN 301 489-3
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	
radio	equipment	and	services;	Part	3:	Specific	conditions	for	Short-Range	Devices	(SRD)	operating	on	frequencies	between	
9 kHz and 40 GHz.
EN 301 489-4
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	radio	
equipment	and	services;	Part	4:	Specific	conditions	for	fixed	radio	links	and	ancillary	equipment	and	services.
EN 301 489-7
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility		(EMC)	standard	for	
radio	equipment	and	services;	Part	7:	Specific	conditions	for	mobile	and	portable	radio	and	ancillary	equipment	of	digital	
cellular radio telecommunications systems.
EN 301 489-9
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	
radio	equipment	andservices;	Part	9:	Specific	conditions	for	wireless	microphones,	similar	RadioFrequency	(RF)	audio	link	
equipment, cordless audio and in-ear monitoringdevices.
EN 301 489-10
electromagnetic compatibility and radio spectrum matters (erm) : electromagnetic compatibility (emc) standard for radio 
equipment	and	services	-	Part	10:	Specific	conditions	for	First	(CT1	and	CT1+)	and	Second	Generation	Cordless	Telephone	
(ct2) equipment.
EN 301 489-12
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	radio	
equipment	and	services;	Part	12:	Specific	conditions	for	Very	Small	Aperture	Terminal	(VSAT),	Satellite	Interactive	Earth	
Stations operated in the frequency ranges between 4GHz and 30GHz in the fixed Satellite Service (fSS).

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
40A
EN 301 489-13
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electro	magnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	
radio	equipment	and	services;	Part	13:	Specific	condition	for	Citizens’	Band	(CB)	radio	and	ancillary	equipment	(speech	
and non-speech).
ETSI EN 301 489-15 
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electro	magnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	radio	
equipment	and	services;	Part	15:	Specific	conditions	for	commercially	available	amateur	radio	equipment
EN 301 489-17
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	
radio	equipment	and	services;	Part	17:	Specific	conditions	for	2.4	GHz	wideband	transmission	systems	and	5	GHz	high	
performance rLAN equipment.
EN 301 489-18
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Comp	ability	(EMC)	standard	for	radio	
equipment	and	services;	Part	18:	Specific	conditions	for	Terrestrial	Trunked	Radio	(TETRA)	equipment.
EN 301 489-20
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	radio	
equipment	and	services;	Part	20:	Specific	condition	for	Mobile	Earth	Stations	(MES)	used	in	the	Mobile	Satellite	Services	
(mSS).
EN 301 489-24
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	radio	
equipment	and	services;	Part	24:	Specific	conditions	for	IMT-2000	CDMA	Direct	Spread	(UTRA)	for	Mobile	and	Portable	
(ue) radio and ancillary equipment.
EN 301 489-25
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	
radio	equipment	and	services;	Part	25:	Specific	conditions	for	IMT-2000	CDMA	Multi-carrier	Mobile	Stations	and	ancillary	
equipment
EN 301 489-27
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);	Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	
radio	equipment	and	services	—	Part	27:	Specific	conditions	for	Ultra	Low	Power	Active	Medical	Implants	(ULP-AMI)	and	
related peripheral devices (uLP-Ami-P).
EN 301 489-31
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	radio	
equipment	and	services;	Part	31:	EMC	for	radio	equipment	in	the	9	to	315	kHz	band	for	Ultra	Low	Power	Active	Medical	
implants (uLP-Ami) and related peripheral devices (uLP-Ami-P).
EN 301 489-32
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	radio	
equipment	andservices;	Part	32:	Specific	conditions	for	Ground	and	Wall	Probing	Radar	applications.
EN 301 489-33
Electromagnetic	compatibility	and	Radio	spectrum	Matters	(ERM);Electromagnetic	Compatibility	(EMC)	standard	for	radio	
equipment	andservices;	Part	33:	Specific	conditions	for	Ultra	Wide	Band	(UWB)	communications	devices.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
41A
Appendix F -Type Approval Certificate
RADIO AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TERMINAL EQUIPMENT 
TYPE APPROV AL CERTIFICATE
TYPE APPROVAL NUMBER
the telecommunications regulatory commission of Sri Lanka, in the exercise of powers conferred upon it by Section 
5(q) of SriLanka telecommunications Act No. 25 of 1991 as amended subject to the rtte rules of 2020 and terms 
and conditions set out in the Annexure, hereby issues a radio and telecommunications terminal equipment (rtte) 
Type	Approval	Certificate	to	the	Company/Individual	whose	name	listed	below.
DETAILS OF THE APPLICANT
Name of company/Applicant:
business registration/Nic Number
Vendors License file Number:
Address:
telephone: fax: e-mail:
DESCRIPTION OF RTTE
type of equipment:
brand Name:
model Number:
country of manufacture:
Year of manufacturing:
Operating frequency range:
itu emission designator:
type of modulation:
transmission capacity:
channel Spacing:
rf Output Power:
Gain of Antenna:
This	Certificate	shall	be	valid	for	a	period	of	four	(04)	years	from	the	date	of	issuance	unless	previously	revoked.
director/Spectrum management                                                       date:

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
42A
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF TYPE APPROV AL CERTIFICATION
1.	 The	certificate	is	valid	under	condition	that	the	RTTE	being	granted	Approval	is	identical	to	the	type	tested	
one.  
2. Any changes to the brand name, model or version of the type approved rtte will require a new type 
approval.  this involves re-application with revised supporting documents.  
3.	 If	the	technical	specifications	of	the	RTTE	have	not	been	amended,	reference	shall	be	made	to	original	Type	
Approval.		However,	the	applicant	shall	submit	a	letter	of	declaration	stating	that	the	technical	specifications	
for the old named/model equipment are the same as the new named/model equipment.  
4.	 The	Type	Approval	Certificate	shall	be	revoked	in	the	following	instances:
a.	 At	the	request	of	the	Type	Approval	holder	of	RTTE;
b.	 Any	information	provided	to	the	Commission		is	found	to	be	counterfeited	or	false;	
c. t ype Approved rtte that has been released to market  does not comply with the applicable type 
Approval	Standards;
d.	 There	is	a	breach	of	these	rules	in	respect	of	the	registered	RTTE;
e. in the event that the type Approval holder repeatedly fails to honour its obligations under any 
directive	issued	by	the	Commission;
f.	 Modifications	are	made	to	the	RTTE	with	respect	to	the	brand,	name,	model	,version,	function	or	
any	other	information	recorded	on	the	Type	Approval	Certificate	and/or	Type	Approval	Register;
g. due to the subsequent development of new characteristics rtte it is likely to be injurious to the 
health	and	safety	of	users	or		the	public;
h. the rtte interferes with the operation of other radio communications equipment or a 
telecommunications network.
  
 
Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka
               1. Name of Vendor:
               2. Type of Equipment:
               3. Make & Model:
               4. Type Approval Number:
               5. Date  of Approval to Release the
                   Equipment to the Market:
          Ref No:                                          IMIE/Serial No:
Appendix G - Type Approval Label


<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
43A
Application for a Permit to Import Representative 
Sample(s) of Radio and Telecommunications Terminal 
Equipment (RTTE) for Type Approval
1.  Company Details
Name of the company/ Applicant
business registration Number
Vendor License Number
Address
telephone fax e-mail
2.  Details of Authorized Representative of the Company
Name of the Authorized representative
Nic Number
mobile e-mail
3.  RTTE Information
Name of manufacturer
make & model
Number of units (maximum 2)
Performa invoice Number
4.  Decleration
i, the applicant, hereby certify that the information supplied in this application form is true and in all respects.  
i acknowledge that the commission has right to reject the application in the case where any statement made herein is 
found	to	be	false	or	the	Commission	is	not	satisfied	in	respect	to	any	aspect	of	the	application.
Applicant's Signature:                                    date:
5. Supporting Documentations 
copies of following documents should be submitted with the application.
1. Nic the Authorized representative of the company
2. Performa invoice
3. Technical	Specifications	of	RTTE	concerned	
Appendix H - Application for a Permit to Import Representative Sample(s) of RTTE for Type Approval


<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
44A
Appendix I - Application for Custom Clearance of Representative Samples(s) of RTTE for Type Approval
Application for Custom Clearance of 
Representative Sample(s) of Radio and Telecommunications 
Terminal Equipment (RTTE) for Type Approval
1.  Company Details
Name of the company/ Applicant
business registration Number
Vendor License Number
Address
telephone fax e-mail
2.  Details of Authorized Representative of the Company
Name of the Authorized representative
Nic  Number
mobile e-mail
3.  RTTE Information
Name of manufacturer
make & model
Serial Number/imie Number
Number of units (maximum 2)
4. Other Details
reference Number of controller of imports & export Letter issued by 
the commission
import License Number issued by controller of imports & exports 
commercial invoice Number 
5.  Decleration
i, the applicant, hereby certify that the information supplied in this application form is true in all respects.  
i acknowledge that the commission has right to reject the application in the case where any statement made herein is 
found	to	be	false	or	the	Commission	is	not	satisfied	in	respect	to	any	aspect	of	the	application.
Applicant's Signature date
6. Supporting Documentations and Representative Samples
copies of following documents should be submitted with the application.
1. Nic of the applicant
2. Letter to the controller of imports & exports
3. imports permit issued by the controller of imports & exports
4. commercial invoice 


<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
45A
Application for a Permit to Import 
Radio and Telecommunications Terminal Equipment (RTTE) for
 Commercial Purposes/Own Use
1.  Company Details
Name of the company/ Applicant
Vendor License Number
business registration Number
Address
telephone fax e-mail
2.  Details of Authorized Representative of the Company
Name of the Authorized representative
Nic Number
mobile e-mail
(if applicant is importing rtte for the use of other party, duly signed authorization letter from the user should be attached 
to the application. the letter should provide contact details and Nic number of the user)
3.  RTTE Information
Name of manufacturer
type Approval Number
frequency License Number (if applicable)
Performa invoice Number
Equipment	Details	(Please	fill	up	the	table	below)
Make & Model Date of previous 
Importation
Quantity
 in order
Units price
(CIF) in USD
Cost in USD
Total Cost in USD
4.  Decleration
i, the applicant, hereby certify that the information supplied in this application form is true in all respects.  
i acknowledge that the commission has right to reject the application in the case where any statement made herein is 
found	to	be	false	or	the	Commission	is	not	satisfied	in	respect	to	any	aspect	of	the	application.
Applicant's Signature:       date:
Appendix J - Application for a Permit to Import RTTE for Commercial Purposes /Own Use


<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
46A
Appendix K - Application for Custom Clearance of RTTE for Commercial Purposes/Own Use
Application for Custom Clearance of  
Radio and Telecommunications Terminal Equipment (RTTE)
for Commercial Purposes/Own Use
1.  Company Details
Name of the company/ Applicant
Vendor License Number
business registration Number
Address
telephone fax e-mail
2.  Details of Authorized Representative of the Company
Name of the Authorized representative
Nic Number
 mobile e-mail
(if applicant is importing rtte for the use of other party, duly signed authorization letter from the user should be attached 
to the application. the letter should provide contact details and Nic number of the user)
3.  Details of RTTE 
Name of manufacturer
type Approval Number
frequency License Number (if applicable)
Equipment	Details	(Please	fill	up	the	table	below)
Make & Model *Serial Number /IMIE 
Numbers
Quantity in 
Shipment
Units price
(CIF) in USD
Cost in USD
Total Cost in USD
*	If	space	is	not	sufficient,	please	provide	electronically	
4. Other Details 
reference Number of controller of imports & export 
Letter issued by the commission
import License Number issued by controller of imports & 
exports


<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
47A
commercial invoice Number
Airway bill Number
5.  Decleration
i, the applicant, hereby certify that the information supplied in this application form is true in all respects.  
i acknowledge that the commission has right to reject the application in the case where any statement made herein is 
found	to	be	false	or	the	Commission	is	not	satisfied	in	respect	to	any	aspect	of	the	application.
Applicant's Signature:       date:
6. Supporting Documentations 
copies of following documents should be submitted with the application.
1. Nic of the applicant
2. Letter to the controller of imports & exports
3. import permit issued by the controller of imports & exports
4. frequency License (if applicable)
5.	 Commercial	Invoice	which	should	be	certified	by	the	bank	responsible	for	transfer	of	funds/Original	Invoice	
(Original	should	be	produced	for	verification	purposes)
6. Packing list
7. Airway bill

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
48A
Appendix L - Application for Custom Clearance of RTTE 
for Personal Use
Application for Custom Clearance of 
 Radio and Telecommunications Terminal Equipment (RTTE) 
for Personal Use
1.  Details of Applicant
Name of the Applicant
 Nic Number
Address
contact telephone Number  e-mail
custom detention receipt /invoice Number and date
2.  Details of Radio and Telecommunications Terminal Equipment
type of equipmemt
make & model
Operating frequncy/band (if known)
Output Power (if known)
Serial Number(s)/imie Number(s)(if known)
Number of units (maximum 5 per year)
3. Decleration
i, the applicant, hereby certify that the information supplied in this application form is true in all respects.  
i acknowledge that the commission has right to reject the application in the case where any statement made herein is 
found	to	be	false	or	the	Commission	is	not	satisfied	in	respect	to	any	aspect	of	the	application.
i have no objection to the detention of aforesaid rtte which does not comply with the commission’s technical standards.
Applicant's Signature:               date:
4. Supporting Documentations 
copies of following documents should be submitted with the application.
1. Nic of the Applicant
2. custom detention receipt /commercial invoice 
3.	 Technical	Specifications	of	RTTE.


<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.10.2020
49A
Appendix M - Application for Permission to Re-export RTTE 
Application for permission to Re-export  
Radio and Telecommunications Terminal Equipment (RTTE)
1.  Company Details
Name of the company/ Applicant
Vendor License Number
business registration Number
Address
telephone fax e-mail
2.  Contact Details of Authorized Representative of the Company
Name 
Nic Number
mobile e-mail
3.  Details of RTTE 
List of rtte with Serial/imie Numbers
reference Number of the no Objection Letter for the custom clearance 
issued by  the commission (if applicable)
Locations of rtte installed (if applicable)
frequency License Number (if applicable)
4.  Decleration
i, the applicant, hereby certify that the information supplied in this application form is true in all respects.  
i acknowledge that the commission has right to reject the application in the case where any statement made herein is 
found	to	be	false	orthe		Commission	is	not	satisfied	in	respect	to	any	aspect	of	the	application.
Applicant's Signature:                                    date:
5. Supporting Documentations 
copies of following documents should be submitted with the application.
1. Nic of the applicant
2. No objection letter for custom clearance issued by the commission
3. frequency License (if applicable)
PRINTeD AT THe DePARTMeNT OF GOVeRNMeNT PRINTING,  sRI lANKA.
10-950