

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.05.2016
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
wxl 1968$10 - 2016 uehs ui 25 jeks nodod - 2016'05'25
No. 1968/10  -  WEDNESDAY ,  MAY  25,   2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
CIVIL   AVIATION  ACT,  No. 14  OF  2010
Implementing Standard: Requirements for Operation of Pilotless Aircraft (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles/
Remotely Piloted Aircraft)
BY VIRTUE of the powers vested in me by section 120 (1) of the Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010, I, H.M.C. Nimalsiri,
Director General of Civil Aviation  do here by issue the following Implementing Standards.
H.M.C. N IMALSIRI,
Director General of Civil Aviation &
Chief Executive Officer.
Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka,
No. 64, Galle Road,
Colombo 03,
Sri Lanka.
CIVIL  AVIATION   AUTHORITY  OF  SRI  LANKA
Implementing  Standards
(Issued under Sec. 120,Civil Aviation Act,   No. 14 of 2010)
Title:Requirements for Operation  of  Pilotless  Aircraft  (Unmanned   Aerial   Vehicles/Remotely   Piloted
Aircraft)
Reference  No. : CA-IS-2016-GEN-001                          SLCAIS:  053                                 Date :   25
th February 2016
Pursuant  to Sec.120  of  the  Civil Aviation Act, No.14 of  2010  which  is hereinafter  referred  to  as  the CA  Act, Director
General   of Civil Aviation has the power to issue,whenever he considers it necessary or  appropriate to do so, such
Implementing Standards for the purpose of giving effect to any provision in the CA Act, Regulations or Rules made
the reunder including the Articles of the Convention on International Civil  Aviation specified in the Schedule to the CA Act.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.05.2016
2A
Accordingly I, being the Director General of Civil Aviation do hereby issue the Implementing Standards as mentioned
in the Attachment   hereto  (Ref:CA-IS-2016-GEN-001-Att.01, titled Requirements applicable for Operation of Pilotless
Aircraft–(Unmanned Aerial Vehicles /Remotely Piloted Air craft))that shall be complied with when operating pilotless
aircraft under the provision of Section 80 of the CA  Act, Article 8 of its Schedule or the applicable International Standards and
Recommended Practices  specified in Appendix  4 of  Annex  2 to the Convention.
Attention is also drawn to Section 103 of the CA  Act, which states interalia that failure to comply with Implementing
Standard is an offence.
H.M.C. N IMALSIRI,
Director General of Civil Aviation &
Chief Executive Officer.
Civil Aviation Authority  of   Sri Lanka,
No. 04, Hunupitiya  Road,
Colombo 02.
Enclosure: Attachment No.  CA-IS-2016-GEN-001-Att.01
Requirements for Operation of Pilotless Aircraft (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles/
Remotely Piloted Aircraft) Attachment No. CA-IS-2016-GEN-001-Att.01
IMPLEMENTING   STANDARD   No. SLCAIS-053
Requirements for Operation of Pilotless Aircraft
(Unmanned Aerial Vehicles/Remotely Piloted Aircraft)
1. APPLICABILITY
      The requirements stipulated in this Implementing Standards shall be applicable to operation of remotely piloted
aircraft, control line model aircraft, freeflight model aircraft or  drone  which is hereinafter collectively referred to as
pilotless aircraft within Sri Lanka airspace  under the provision in Section 80 of  the Civil Aviation Act,  No.14 of  2010 and
Article 8 of the Schedule thereto.
2. APPROVED  PERSON   OR   ORGANIZATION
A. Director General of Civil Aviation may approve person or organization having appropriate expertise in the
design, construction or operation of remotely piloted aircraft or appropriate knowledge of air space designations
and restrictions, who is hereinafter referred to as an approved person  or approved  organization as the case
may be, to perform one or  more  of  the following functions for  and on behalf of Director General of Civil
Aviation.
(a) issuing a pilot  qualification  for operating pilotless aircraft ; or
(b) appointing persons to give instruction to operators of pilotless aircraft ; or
(c) authorizing a person to notify the aeronautical information service provider, for the issue of a NOTAM, of
pilotless aircraft operations ; or
(d) authorizing the construction or modification of pilotless aircraft; or
(e) inspecting and approving the construction of a pilotless aircraft; or

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.05.2016
3A
Requirements for Operation of Pilotless Aircraft (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle/
Remotely Piloted Aircraft) Attachment No. CA-IS-2016-GEN-001-Att.01
(f) authorizing the operation of a remotely pilotless aircraft.
B. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Director General of Civil Aviation may approve a person or organization applying
to him directly for operation of a pilotless aircraft.
C. A person or organization intending to receive status of Approved Person or Approved Organization for the
purposes of this Implementing Standard may apply to Director General  of  Civil Aviation  in writing, giving  his/
her qualifications and experience in the construction/operation/maintenance of pilotless aircraft.
3. MASS   LIMITS  FOR  OPERATION   OF   PILOTLESS  AIR  CRAFT
A. A pilotless air craft of gross mass of more than 25kg shall not be operated unless
B. explicit approval from Director General of Civil Aviation has been obtained, and
C. the published requirements on Personnel Licensing, Aircraft Operations and Air worthiness applicable to piloting
aircraft are fully complied with.
D. Subject to compliance with the requirements in this Implementing Standards, a pilotless aircraft with a gross mass
of between 1kg  and 25 kg  may be-
(a) designed, constructed or maintained under the authority of, Director General of Civil Aviation, an approved
person or approved organization ; and
(b) operated under  the  authority  of the Director General of Civil Aviation, an  approved person   or approved
organization.
E . A pilotless aircraft with a gross mass of less than 1kg may be operated without approval from the Director General
of Civil Aviation if it is operated for leisure or education purposes at a private premise with the consent of the
property owner or at public places which are clearly identified for the purpose, with due regard to safety of persons
and property.
4. FLIGHT  CLEARANCE
A pilotless aircraft of mass category mentioned under paragraph 2.A and 2.B shall not be flown in the open air over any
area, without flight clearance obtained from the local police in charge of the area, over which the pilotless aircraft is
flown except in the following situations.
A. Pilotless aircraft is operated in an approved aerodrome, or
B. Pilotless aircraft is operated in the presence of an authorized person of the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka.
C. Pilotless aircraft is operated strictly within the premises owned by the owner of the aircraft.
5.  IDENTIFICATION   STAMP
A. No pilotless aircraft in the mass category mentioned under 2.A or 2.B shall be operated in any part of Sri Lanka,
unless it  carry an identification stamp issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation or a person or organization
duly authorized by him.
B. An identification stamp on a pilotless aircraft shall indicate its identification number, owner’s national identity
card number and his/her contact details.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.05.2016
4A
Requirements for Operation of Pilotless  Aircraft (Unmanned Aerial V ehicle/
Remotely Piloted Aircraft) Attachment No. CA-IS-2016-GEN-001-Att.01
6. OPERATION   OF   PILOTLESS  AIRCRAFT  FOR   COMMERCIAL  PURPOSES
Pilotless aircraft of any weight category shall not be operated for hire or reward, unless special approval is obtained
from the Director General of Civil Aviation in writing after payment of the specified fee on case by case basis.
7. OPERATION   OF   PILOTLESS   AIRCRAFT   FOR   AERIAL   WORK
Pilotless aircraft of any weight category shall not be operated for any aerial work, unless special approval is obtained
from the Director General of Civil Aviation in writing after payment of the specified fee on case by case basis.
8.  CONTROL  LINE   MODEL   AIRCRAFT
A control  line  model  aircraft shall  not  be  operated  with  a  single  or  multiple  wire  system  longer than 30 m.
9.  SAFE   OPERATION   OF  REMOTELY  PILOTED   AIRCRAFT
A pilotless aircraft of any weight category shall not be operated unless its method of propulsion, source of power and
means of controls are checked and verified for normal operations prior to flight ensuring safe operations without
endangering persons or property.
10. STATUS  OF   THE  OPERATOR  OF  PILOTLESS  AIRCRAFT
A pilotless aircraft shall not be operated by any person if he or she;
A. is not familiar with operations  and maneuvering of the aircraft safely.
B. is not in good physical and mental health condition; and,
C. is under the  influence  of alcohol or  psychoactive   substance; and,
D. does not have  sound sense  of social responsibility.
11.  PLACES  OF  OPERATIONS
A. A pilotless aircraft shall not be operated on or within 5 miles  of   boundary  of —
(a) an uncontrolled aerodrome, unless—
1. the operation  is  undertaken  in  accordance with the approval of the Director General of Civil
Aviation and an agreement with the  aerodrome operator; and
2. in the case of a free flight model aircraft, the aircraft is launched down wind of an active runway ;
and
3. in the case of a remotely piloted aircraft–
(i) each pilot has an observer in attendance while the aircraft is in flight ; and
(ii) the aircraft is not operated at a height of more than 400 feet above ground level unless otherwise
approved by Director General of Civil Aviation; and

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.05.2016
5A
Requirements for Operation of Pilotless Aircraft (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle/
Remotely Piloted Aircraft) Attachment No. CA-IS-2016-GEN-001-Att.01
(b) a controlled aerodrome, unless it is operated in accordance with an  authorization from  the relevant ATC unit
and the Director General of Civil Aviation ; and
(c) any aerodrome, unless the operating person has obtained prior approval from the Director General of Civil
Aviation and
(i) is the holder of, or is under the direct supervision of the holder of, a pilot qualification issued by an
approved person or organization ; or
(ii) is under the direct supervision of a person appointed to give instruction in the operation of remotely
piloted aircraft by an  approved person or organization ; or
(iii) is the holder of a  pilot licence or certificate issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation.
B. Unless otherwise authorized by the Director General of Civil Aviation in writing, a pilotless aircraft shall not be
operated in any part of Sri Lanka;
(a) on or  over any movement area of an active aerodrome ; or
(b) on or  over any active runway strip area ; or
(c) over assembly of persons or public gatherings; or
(d) over congested areas; or
(e) along or over roadway or railway ; or
(f) below or above  open electricity power lines; or
(g) within proximity to communication towers;
(h) National Park, protected areas or security establishments without approval
C. Paragraph 10(A)  does  not  apply  to  a  shielded  operation  that  is conducted—
(a) outside of the boundary of the aerodrome ; and
(b) in  airspace that  is physically  separated from  the aerodrome by a barrier that is capable of arresting the flight
of the aircraft.
D. Paragraph 10 (A) (c) above does not apply to a free flight model aircraft, if the aircraft is not flown above 100 ft.
12. AIRSPACE
A. A pilotless aircraft must   not be operated;
(a) above any property unless explicit prior consent has been obtained from persons occupying that property
or the property owner; and
(b) causing safety or security hazard to third person or  property, and

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.05.2016
6A
Requirements for Operation of Pilotless Aircraft (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle/
Remotely Piloted Aircraft) Attachment No. CA-IS-2016-GEN-001-Att.01
(c) without maintaining observation of the surrounding airspace in which the aircraft is operating for other
aircraft; and
(d) at any  height above 400 feet above ground level except in accordance with paragraph 11.(C).
B. Nothing in paragraph 10 (A)(a) will be applicable if the aircraft is operated under the authority of Director
General of Civil Aviation or an approved organization ; and
C. A pilotless air  craft may be operated more than 5 miles  away from an aerodrome boundary and above 400 feet
above ground level—
(a) If operation take places in an active danger area designated for that purpose ; or
(b) If the operation remains clear of Class C, D, and E airspace and that, at least 24 hours before the operation,
a person authorized by an approved person or organization, notifies the aeronautical information service
provider, for the issue of a NOTAM, of the following information:
1. the name, address, and telephone number of the operator:
2. the location of the proposed operation:
3. the date, time and duration of the proposed operation:
4. the maximum height above  ground level proposed  for  the aircraft operation.
13. RIGHT  OF  WAY
A. A person operating a pilotless aircraft must ensure the aircraft that the person is operating gives way to, and
remains clear of, all manned aircraft and on the ground and in flight.
B. A person who is operating a free flight model aircraft must before launching the aircraft ensure that during the
operation the aircraft will remain clear of all manned aircraft on the ground and in flight.
C. A person operating a pilotless aircraft must ensure the aircraft that the person is operating gives way to and
remains clear of all moving objects on earth or water surface.
D. A person operating a pilotless aircraft must ensure the aircraft that the person is operating remains well clear of
persons, animals, birds or property.
14. DROPPING  OF  OBJECTS  OR   DISPLAY  OF   BANNERS
Nothing shall be dropped nor shall any banner be displayed in a pilotless aircraft in flight without approval from the
Director General of Civil Aviation.
15.  TOWING
Nothing shall be towed in a pilotless aircraft in flight without specific approval from Director General of Civil Aviation;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.05.2016
7A
Requirements for Operation of Pilotless Aircraft (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle/
Remotely Piloted Aircraft) Attachment No. CA-IS-2016-GEN-001-Att.01
16.   VISUAL   LINE   OF  SIGHT   OPERATION
A. A pilotless aircraft shall not be operated over
(a) any area in which the person’s view of the surrounding airspace in which the aircraft will operate is obstructed;
or
(b) from an elevated ground, building or an object;
(c) meteorological conditions that obstruct the operating person’s ability to maintain visual line of sight of the
aircraft.
B. A person who operates  a  pilotless aircraft must at all times—
(a) maintain visual line of  sight with the aircraft; and
(b) be  able  to see  the surrounding air  space in which the aircraft is operating;and
(c) maintain the aircraft below the  cloud base.
C. For the purposes of this Implementing Standard, visual line of sight means a straight line along which an observer
has a clear view and which may be achieved with the use of—
(a) spectacles, contact lenses, or a similar device used to correct subnormal vision of the user to no better than
normal vision but not  the   use  of  an  electronic,  mechanical, electromagnetic, optical, or electro-optical
instrument ; or
(b) a first person view system and a trained and competent observer who maintains—
1. visual line of sight of the aircraft; and
2. sight of the  surrounding  air  space in which the aircraft is operating; and
3. direct communication with the  person who is operating the  aircraft.
17.  NIGHT  OPERATIONS
A pilotless of aircraft shall not be operated from dusk to dawn (night)  unless the operation is—
A. indoors with adequate lighting; or
B. a shielded operation with adequate illumination.
18.  AIR  COMPETITION
Pilotless aircraft shall not be operated in a race or competition of any form, without special approval from Director General
of Civil Aviation.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.05.2016
8A
Requirements for Operation of Pilotless Aircraft (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle/
Remotely Piloted Aircraft) Attachment No. CA-IS-2016-GEN-001-Att.01
19.  MODIFICATIONS
Pilotless aircraft which has already received approval from Director General of Civil Aviation, approved person or
approved organization, shall not be modified without requisite approval for the modification.
20.  RADIO   INTERFERENCE
A pilotless aircraft shall not be operated to cause interference to radio communication, navigation or surveillance of
aircraft and/ or Air Traffic Management system.
06-242
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.