

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2103$2 - 2018 foieïn¾ ui 24 jeks i÷od - 2018'12'24
No. 2103/2 - MONDAY,  DECEMBER  24, 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A - G  29139 — 09 (12/2018)
SERVICE  MINUTE   OF   THE   SRI    LANKA   SURVEYORS’   SERVICE
The following Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service will be replaced without prejudice to the Service
Minute  of the Sri Lank Surveyors’ Service that came into force with effect from 01.08.2005 and published in the Gazette
Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.1434/5 of 27.02.2006 and to any steps taken or
purported to have been taken as per the amendments made to the said Minute from time to time.
                                                                                             By order of the Public Service Commission,
M.A.B. DAYA SENARATH,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
21st December 2018.
01. Effective Date
This Service Minute shall come into operation with effect from 24.12.2018
02. Particulars of the Appointing Authority
2.1 Appointing Authority - The Appointing Authority for the post of Surveyor General is the Cabinet of Ministers
and for the other posts in Service other than the post of Surveyor General, the Appointing Authority is the
Public Service Commission.
03. Particulars of the Service categories
3.1 Service Category: Senior Executive
                        Executive

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
2A
3.2 Grades
Senior Executive Special Grade
Executive Grade I
Executive Grade II
Executive Grade III
3.3 General definition of the role entrusted
Functions assigned to the Surveyor General as the Head of the Department by the Survey Act, No. 17 of
2002 and other laws incidental thereto and other functions specifically assigned to him in relation to the
subject of Surveying should be carried out by those who hold  posts in this service.
04. Nature of the post - permanent and pensionable.
(Shall be subjected to a policy decision made by the government in future on the pension scheme.)
05. Salaries
5.1 Salary Code Number - Senior Executive - SL-03-2016
- Executive - SL - 01- 2016
5.2 Salary Scale Senior Executive  - SL-03-2016
Rs. 88,000 – 12 X 2,700 – 120,400/-
Executive  - SL-01-2016
Rs. 47,615 – 10 X 1,335 – 8 X 1,630 – 17 X 2,170 – 110,895/-
5.3 Grading system applicable to service category and monthly salary step applicable to grading system
Grade Initial salary step Salary level
Grade III Step 01, SL-1-2016 Rs. 47,615
Grade II Step 12, SL-1-2016 Rs. 62,595
Grade  I Step 20, SL-1-2016 Rs. 76,175
Special Grade Step 01, SL-3-2016 Rs. 88,000

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
3A
06. Posts belonging to service categories
6.1 Approved designations, number of approved posts and functions assigned to them
Approved Designations (Grade)  Approved Carder T asks
Surveyor General (Special Grade) 1
Additional Surveyor General 3
(Special Grade)
Senior Deputy Surveyor General 5
(Special Grade)
Deputy Surveyor General /Provincial 15
Surveyor General  (Special Grade)
Senior Superintendent of Survey
(Grade I) 60
Superintendent of Survey (Grade II) 139
Assistant Superintendent of Survey/ 850
Surveyor (Grade III)
6.2  Number of combined officers: 1049
All Grades of III, II and I are considered as belonging to the number of combined officers for grade to grade
promotion.
07. Method of Recruitment
All recruitments will be made to the Grade III of the Service from the officers who fulfill the following qualifications
and serve in the post of Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service
and who is a registered Surveyor in the Land Survey Council in terms of the Survey Act, No. 17 of 2002.
(i) If an officer recruited to the post of Apprentice Surveyor with a degree in Surveying Science, should have
served at least three (03) year active and satisfactory period as an Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of
Survey with a training period of six months (06) on departmental activities.
Monitoring and Supervising of duties
assigned by Survey Act and other laws
incidental thereto and other related duties
specifically assigned to the Surveyor General
Monitoring and Supervising of duties
assigned by Survey Act and other laws
incidental thereto and other duties
specifically assigned by the Surveyor
General
Carrying out, monitoring and supervising of
duties assigned by Survey Act and other laws
incidental thereto and other duties
specifically assigned by the Surveyor
General
Carrying out, monitoring and supervising of
duties assigned by Survey Act and other laws
incidental thereto and other duties
specifically assigned by the Surveyor
General
Carrying out of duties assigned by Survey Act
and other laws incidental thereto and other
duties specifically assigned by the Surveyor
General

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
4A
(ii) If an of ficer recruited to the post of Apprentice Surveyor with non-Surveying Science degree, should have
completed a degree in Surveying Science and served at least three year (03) active and satisfactory period as
an Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey.
Scheme of Recruitment to the post of Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the Sri
Lanka Surveyors’ Service is included in appendix “A”
08. Efficiency Bar
Which Efficiency Number of years prior to Nature of the Efficiency Bar
Bar which the Efficiency Bar W ritten Examination /Trade
should be passed Test/Certificate Course/Other
1
st Efficiency Bar Within three years from the recruitment See appendix “B”
to the Grade III of Sri Lanka Surveyors’
Service
2
nd  Efficiency Bar Within three years (03) from the See appendix “B”
promotion to the Grade II of Sri Lanka
Surveyors’ Service
3
rd  Efficiency Bar Within five years (05) from the See appendix “B”
promotion to the Grade I of Sri Lanka
Surveyors’ Service
8.2 Frequency at which the Efficiency Bar Examination is conducted: Will be held twice a year.
8.3 The authority conducting the examinations relevant to the Efficiency Bars.
1
st and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examinations will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations or
an institution approved by the Secretary to the Ministry.
3rd Efficiency Bar Examination will be conducted by the institutions set out in Appendix “A” or an institution
approved by the Secretary to the Ministry.
09. Language Proficiency
Language Pr oficiency to be achieved
01.  Official Language
        proficiency
Other official language
Link language
An officer recruited to the public service through a language other than an official
language as An Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey  outside the Sri
Lanka Surveyors’ Service should acquire proficiency in one official language during
the probation period.
An officer recruited to the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service shall acquire proficiency in
other official language belonging to category III in terms of Public Administration
Circular No. 01/2014 within 5 years from such recruitment.
An officer recruited to the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service should have  completed  a
qualification either a pass in English language as a subject in the G.C.E. Ordinary
Level Examination (not as an optional subject) or a pass in  the Special Examination
of English language conducted by the Institute of Surveying and Mapping within 5
years from the recruitment.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
5A
10. Grade Promotion
10.1 Promotion to Grade II from Grade III
10.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled:
(i) Should have been confirmed in the appointment
(ii) Should have completed minimum of ten (10) years period of active and satisfactory service in
Grade III of the service category and earned ten (10) increments.
(iii) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory level or above during a period of ten
(10) years preceding the date of promotion in accordance with the approved procedure of the
performance appraisal.
(iv) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service throughout the period of five (05) years
immediately prior to the date of promotion.
(v) Should have acquired the proficiency in other official language at the level applicable.
(vi) Should have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.
10.1.2 Method of Promotion
When the officers who have fulfilled qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to the
appointing authority, promotion to Grade II will be made with effect from the date on which they fulfill
such qualifications after the scrutiny of qualifications by the Appointing Authority.
10.2 Promotion to Grade I from Grade II
10.2.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled:
i. Should have completed a period of seven (07) year active and satisfactory service in Grade II as
at the date on which qualifications are completed for promotion and earned seven (07) salary
increments.
ii. Should have passed the 2 nd Efficiency Bar Examination in the service.
iii. Should have completed a satisfactory period of service during five (05) years immediately prior
to the date of promotion.
iv. Should have achieved a performance at a satisfactory level or above during seven (07) years prior
to the date of promotion according to the approved procedure of performance appraisal
v . Should have obtained a postgraduate degree in Surveying Science from a university/institute
recognized by the University Grants Commission or in a subject area related to the field of
Surveying Science or in Land Administration.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
6A
10.2.2 Method of Promotion
When officers who fulfill qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to the Appointing
Authority, promotion to Grade I of the Service will be made by the Appointing Authority with effect
from the date of acquirement of the qualifications, irrespective of the number of vacancies after the
scrutiny of qualifications.
10.3 Promotion to Special Grade from Grade I
10.3.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled
i. Should have obtained a postgraduate degree in Surveying Science from a university /institute
recognized by the University Grants Commission or in a subject area related to the field of
Surveying Science or in Land Administration.
ii. Should have completed a period of  five (05) years of active and satisfactory service of Grade I
of the Executive Service Category as at the date of acquirement of the qualifications for promotion
and earned five (05) salary  increments after promotion to Grade I of the Executive Service
Category.
iii. Should have completed a period of active service not less than 18 years in the Executive Service
Category of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service as at the date of becoming eligible for promotion.
iv. Should have Shown an annual performance at a satisfactory level or above during a period of five
(05) years immediately prior to the date of becoming eligible for promotion.
v . Should have possessed a period of satisfactory service during the period of five (05) years
immediately prior to the date of promotion and should have not been subjected to a disciplinary
punishment.
10.3.2 Method of promotion
Promotion to the Special Grade of the Service will be made by the Appointing Authority according to
the seniority of the officers in Grade I of the service who fulfill qualifications, based on the number of
vacancies existing in the Special Grade.
11. Appointment to posts
11.1 Qualifications
Post Qualifications
Surveyor General Should be  a  senior officer of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service
Additional Surveyor General Should be  an officer in Special Grade of the Sri Lanka
Surveyors’ Service
Deputy Surveyor General Should be  an officer in Special Grade of the Sri Lanka
Surveyors’ Service
Deputy Surveyor General/Provincial Should be  an officer in Special Grade of the Sri Lanka
Surveyor General Surveyors’ Service
Senior Superintendent of Survey Should be  an officer in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service
Superintendent of Survey Should be  an officer in Grade I or II of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
7A
11.2  Method of Selection :
Post Qualifications
Surveyor General
Additional Surveyor General
Senior Deputy Surveyor General
Deputy Surveyor General/Provincial
Surveyor General
Senior Superintendent of Survey
Superintendent of Survey
12. Conditions extraneous to the general conditions stipulated in the Procedural Rules of Public Service
Commission.
(a) Period of Compulsory Service
Officers receiving the appointment as Apprentice Surveyor with a degree in Surveying Science, are subject to a six
(06) year period of compulsory service from the date of appointment and officers receiving the appointment as
Apprentice Surveyors with other degree are subject to a eight (08) year period of compulsory service as from the
date of appointment. Every officer who receives an appointment as an Apprentice Surveyor should enter into an
agreement with the Surveyor General and the officers relinquishing the appointment prior to the compulsory
period of service will be dealt with as per such agreement.
(b) Induction Training
i) Training on departmental activities will be provided to the Surveying Science graduates appointed to the post
of Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service.
Will be appointed by  the Cabinet of Ministers
Appointment of the next senior most officers in Special Grade of
the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service other than the Surveyor General to
the posts of Additional Surveyor General, as per the existing number
of vacancies, will be made by the Public Service Commission
Appointment of the next senior most officers in Special Grade  of
the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service  other than the Surveyor General
and the Additional Surveyor Generals,  to the posts of Senior Deputy
Surveyor General as per the existing number of vacancies, will be
made by the Public Service Commission
Appointment of the senior most officers of the Superintendent of
Survey in Grade I of Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service, to the posts of
Deputy Surveyor General/Provincial Surveyor General as per the
existing number of vacancies, will be made by the Public Service
Commission
Appointment of the  senior most officers who hold the post of
Superintendent of Survey  in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’
Service, to the posts of Senior Superintendent of Survey as per the
existing number of vacancies, will be made by the Public Service
Commission.( When appointment are made,  priority will be given
to the officers who have been given acting/ attending to duties
appointments)
Appointment of the next senior most officers in Grade I or Grade II
of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service to the posts of Superintendent of
Survey, as per the existing number of vacancies will be made by the
Public Service Commission.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
8A
ii) Officers with other degrees other than the holders of the Surveying Science degree appointed to the post of
Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service should complete
a BSc degree course in Surveying Science as their second degree at the institute of Surveying and Mapping
and training on departmental activities will also be provided.
(c) In-service Training
Professional knowledge will continuously be provided to the officers by in-service training courses. Professional
development needs of all officers in the service will be provided by these training courses.
13. Definitions
i) “Gazette” means the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
ii) “Service” means Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service
iii) “Service Minute” means the Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service
iv) “Secretary to the Ministry” means Secretary of the ministry in charge of the subject of Surveying.
v) “Institute of Surveying and Mapping” means the Institute of Surveying and Mapping established under the Act
No. 21 of 1969
vi)  “Minute of 01.08.2005” means the Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service published by the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1434/5 dated 27.02.2005 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and become
effective as from 01-08-2005 and the amendments thereof.
vii) “Period of active service means the period of service an officer, drawing the salary assigned to his post,
excluding any period of no-pay leave other than periods of approved no-pay leave for specific purposes,
which have been recognized by the cabinet of Ministers as a policy”
viii) Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service will constitute of officers appointed to the Classes or Grades referred to above
in such service in any of the Departments set out in Appendix “C” appended to this Minute.
14. Determination of the number of vacancies and the extent of recruitment
The number of vacancies in the post of Apprentice Surveyor of Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’
Service will be computed by deducting the total of the number of officers serving in such posts and the number of
officers serving in the post of Apprentice Surveyor of Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’
Service out of the approved number of posts for the post of Assistant Superintendent of Survey/ Surveyor. The
number of the vacancies remain is considered as the vacancies remain as at the date of 30
th July in the same year.
The number of officers serving in the posts of Assistant Superintendent of Survey, Surveyor, and the Apprentice
Surveyor in Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service should not herein be exceeded number
of officers serving in the approved number of posts for the posts of Assistant Superintendant of Survey/Surveyor.
15. Recruitment to the Service, Confirmation in the Service and Making of Graded Promotions
(a)  New recruitments to the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service will be made only to Grade III and the graded promotions
should only be made under the methods set out in this Minute.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
9A
(b) If they have attained the successful completion of the apprentice training as per the paragraph 12, the relevant
proficiency in a official language prior to the confirmation in the post of the Apprentice Surveyor recruited
to the Service in a medium of language other than an official language and the continuation of duties and
conduct satisfactorily as an Apprentice Surveyor and if the qualifications stipulated  in the section 7 of this
Service Minute   have been fulfilled, they will be confirmed in service following recruitment to the Grade III
of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service.
16. Retirement Option
Where the Public Service Commission is satisfied that an officer in service who has not reached his optional age  
of retirement by the date on wh ich th is Gazette notice of the Service Minute is published  has been adversely  
affected by the provisions of this Service Minute  to such an extent as to  avail the privilege of expr essing his 
option to retir e  under Section 7 of the Minute on Pensions,  he will be allowed to so retire subject to av ail such 
option within five years ( 5) from the date on which this Service Minute  being publish ed in the Gazette.
17. Absorption of officers in service into the new grade structure of the reconst ituted Service.
It is applicable only for  those who are in service as at th e date on which this procedure takes effect.  All officers  
drawing salaries under the salary scale of SL-01-2006 and SL- 03-2016 as provid ed by the Public Administr ation 
Circular No. 06 /2006 and the Circulars inciden tal thereto on th e due date will be absorbed as follows subject to 
the provisions o f Section 04 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Co de.
Period of service will be calculated on the basis of the date appointed to each post. However, due to absorption the 
date of increment of the person concerned should not be changed and such date should continue to be effective as  
the increment date that remained prior to the absorption. Likewise, due to reason that the salary step of the person 
concerned was drawing last corresponds to the new salary step, he should not be placed on the next higher salary  
step either in terms of Sectio n 4.4 of Chapter  VII of the Establishments Code.
i) Absorption to the Grade III of the Service
The officers who are in Grade II of Class II of the Service as at the date the Service Minute takes effect will  
be absorbed to the Grade III of the Service.
ii) Absorption to the Grade II of the Service
a) The officers who are in Grade II of Class I of the Service as at the date of Service Minute takes effect 
will be absorbed to the Grade II of the Service.
b) The officers who received appointments to the Grade I of Class II under Section 7.3 of the previous  
Service Minute as at the d ate the Service Minute takes effect will be absorbed to the Grade II without  
the right to promotion to the Grade I .
iii) Absorption to the Grade I of  the Service
The officers who are in Class I  of the Service as at the date the Service Minute takes effect will be absor bed 
to the Grade I of the Service
iv) Absorption to the Special Grade of the Service
The officers who are in the Selection Grad e of the Service as at the date the Service Minute takes effect will 
be absorbed to Special Grade. 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
10A
18. Interim provisions
Interim period will be in force over an ensuing period of 05 years from the date this Service Minute takes effect.
18.1 Higher diploma course in Surveying Science conducted by the Institute of Surveying and Mapping or a post
graduate diploma course on Surveying Science or  a course in Surveying Science equal to or higher than this
are accepted as alternative qualifications to those prescribed in (V) of 10.2.1 and (I) of 10.3.1 of this Service
Minute, during the interim period.
18.2 The officers who have exceeded a period of five (05) years of service in Class I in terms of the Service
Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1434/5 dated 27.02.2006,
as at the date this minute is published in the gazette, will be exempted from the requirement of passing over
the third efficiency bar examination prescribed under 8.1.
18.3 Five years of concessionary period from the date on which this Service Minute is published, will be allowed
to pass over the efficiency bar examination in respect of Grade I under this Service Minute for the officers
who have not earned 05 increments by completing a period of 05 years of active and satisfactory service
after promotion to the Class I, even if they had been promoted to the Class I as at the date on which this
Service Minute is published in the gazette.
18.4 The officers considered to have passed the efficiency bar examination 1 and 2 as per the Minute of 01.08.2005
will still be considered to have passed this efficiency bar examination 1 and 2 under this Minute as well.
18.5 Surveyors who were not qualified to absorb into the Class II/II of the service in terms of section 7.1 of
Minute of 01.08.2005 and served in Classes of III/ I,III/ II,III/III should remain in the present Class/Grade
until they are qualified to be appointed to the Grade III of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service. They will be
appointed to Grade III of the Service on completion of the qualifications prescribed in section 7.1 of the
Minute of 01.08.2005 subject to such conditions.
18.6 When promotions are made to Grade I in the case of officers who are absorbed into Grade II as at the date
this minute takes effect, provisions of Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service set out in the
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1434/5 dated 27.02.2006 should be made applicable in the interim period and it
will be in force only up to 31.12.2018.
18.7 When officers who were recruited to the post of Apprentice Surveyor of the Department of Survey outside
the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service in terms of Minute of 01.08.2005 are recruited to Grade III of Sri Lanka
Surveyors’ Service, recruitments are made in terms of the provisions set out in such Minute.
18.8   For the posts of Senior Superintendent of Survey rendering vacant till the completion of the Minimum period
of service required for the promotion to Grade I under this Service Minute  after 31.12.2018 i.e. up to of
01.08.2022, officers will be appointed on the basis of acting or attending to duties subject to the approval of
the Public Service Commission. This acting appointment is made according to the seniority in Grade II and
if any officer who does not accept such acting / attending to duty appointments at the time of making such
appointments he will not be considered for reappointments to an acting /attending to duties appointment
until period of 02 years.
 (When permanent appointments are made to the post of Senior Superintendant of Survey, priority will be
given to the officers engaging in acting/ attending to duties appointments. Subsequent to making of
appointments to the officers engaging in acting/ attending to duties in the post of Senior Superintendent of
Survey, the officers who did not engage in acting/attending to duties appointments will be appointed to the
post of Senior Superintendent of Survey.)

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
11A
19. Proficiencies determined by the government from time to time
In addition to the requirements stipulated in this Minute, all officers should duly acquire the necessary proficiencies
and skills determined by the government from time to time.
20. Seniority
When appointing the Surveying Science graduates recruited to the post of Apprentice Survey or to Grade III of the
Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service, the criterion of deciding the seniority is the level of marks secured by each officer
in the competitive examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Examinations Department as per Appendix “D”.
When open recruitment (on the results of the competitive examination) and the recruitment on merit (on the
marks of the interview) to the post of Apprentice Surveyor were made on a same day, the officers who were
recruited on merit are considered to be having more seniority.
21. Matters not provided for
Decisions on matters extraneous to the provisions of this Minute will be made by the Public Service Commission.
Appendix “A”
Method of Recruitment to the post of Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka
Surveyors’ Service.
Recruitments to the post of Apprentice Surveyor of Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service
will be made so as to enable the filling up of the vacancies existing in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service
subsequent to the completion of prescribed qualifications.
Recruitment ratio
Stream Percentage
Open 90%
Merit 10%
Note:
In the recruitment  to the post of Apprentice Surveyor of Department of Survey, outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’
Service, 90% of the number of recruits will be made from the graduates with prescribed qualifications through an
open competitive examination and  balance will be recruited from officers who have a minimum of five (05) year
active and satisfactory service with prescribed qualifications serving in a post of the Sri Lanka Technological
Service of the Department of Survey  after being confirmed in the service through a structured interview under the
method of merit recruitment. However, if an adequate number of officers cannot be enrolled on the basic of merit
recruitment for selection to train as Apprentice Surveyors of the Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka
Surveyors’ Service, graduates selected on open recruitment will be engaged for such vacancies too
.
In the recruitment under the open stream, Surveying Science graduates and other graduates will be engaged in
accordance with the ratio of 9:1. If Surveying Science graduates are found to be unavailable in the required number,
such number will be completed from the other graduates and if other graduates too are not sufficiently available in
the required number, such number will be filled up from the Surveying Science graduates.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
12A
2. Open recruitment
2.1 Qualifications
2.1.1 Educational Qualifications
(a) Should have obtained from a University/Institute recognized by the University Grants
Commission,
(i) A BSc degree in Surveying Science
or
(ii) A BSc Special degree (Mathematics or Physics or Computer/Information Technology
Science as a main Subject)
or
(iii) A BSc degree in Engineering Science
or
(iv) A Computer/Information Technology Science degree with a class
or
(v) General BSc degrees with the subjects of Mathematics and Physics with a class
and
(b) Should have passed the subjects of Mathematics and Physics for the G.C.E. Advanced Level.
2.1.2 Professional qualifications and experience – Not applicable
2.1.3 Physical Qualifications
Every candidate should be a person who is physically fit in every respect to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka with three dimensional sight void of color blindness.
2.1.4 Other
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(ii) Should be of excellent moral character
(iii)  Persons ordained in any religious order will not be recruited to this post and they cannot apply
for this post. Likewise, they are not in any way permitted to sit for the recruitment examination.
iv) The fact that the qualifications required to sit for the competitive examination for appointment
to the Service have been fulfilled will be accepted only if the qualifications prescribed in this
Appendix have been completed as at the date stated in the Gazette Notification as the date on
which the qualifications should be completed. Copies of the certificates should be submitted
with the application in support of the qualifications.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
13A
2.1.5 Age
2.1.5.1 Minimum Age limit : 22 years
2.1.5.2 Maximum Age limit : 28 years
2.2 Method of recruitment
Recruitments will be made by a written competitive examination conducted by an institute approved by the
Commissioner General of Examinations or Surveyor General. The candidates who have passed all the subjects and
secured a minimum of 40% marks for each question paper, will be recruited to the post of Apprentice Surveyor
outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service in the order of merit of marks subsequent to an interview conducted by
the Surveyor General for examining the qualifications and general physical fitness.
(a) Details of the open competitive examination for recruitment to the post of Apprentice Surveyor of the Department
of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service.
The open competitive examination held for the post of Apprentice Surveyor of the Department of Survey of Sri
Lanka is conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and candidates are allowed to sit only in one language
and the medium applied for will not be allowed to change subsequently. This examination is consisted of question
papers related to three subjects as follows and every candidate should appear for all three subjects.
Name of the question paper Time Maximum marks Passed marks
1. Comprehension 2 hours 100 40
2. Intelligence Test 2 hours 100 40
3. General Knowledge 2 hours 100 40
Comprehension
A number of short texts is given to the candidates by these question papers limited for a period of two hours (02).
Certain texts are given to express in one sentence. Questions for which comments should be provided to the
underlined words are also given. A number of alternative statements is given to the candidates in respect of certain
other text and one of them is most suitable for the contents included in this text. Candidates should select the most
appropriate statement from it. Several questions will be given to the candidate in regard to certain other texts.
Correct answers for them are expected. These questions are prepared to test the manner in which the candidate
grasps the meaning of such texts. In addition to this, a long text will be given for summary writing.
Intelligence Test
This paper which is limited to two (02) hours, has been prepared to assess the logical state of thinking of the
candidate, analytical competence of his mind and his decision making power. This question paper will consist of
questions fitting into multiple choice method.
General Knowledge
This is a general question paper which is confined to two (02) hours to test the knowledge of the entire gamut
including political, social, cultural, and economical and environmental state of Sri Lanka and the technological and
technical developments as well as nationally and internationally important contemporary matters. Selection of
questions of their choice out of several questions is permitted.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
14A
2.3 Method of calling for applications
By publishing a notice in the gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and by publishing in
website.
3. Recruitment on merit stream
3.1 Qualifications
3.1.1 Educational qualifications
(a) Should have obtained from a University/Institute recognized by the University Grants Commission,
(i) A BSc degree in Surveying Science
or
(ii) A BSc Special degree (Mathematics or Physics or Computer/Information Technology Science
as a main subject)
or
(iii) A BSc degree in Engineering Science
or
(iv) A Computer/Information Technology Science degree with a class
or
(v) A BSc General degrees with Mathematics and Physics subjects with class
and
(b) Should have passed the subjects of Mathematics and Physics for the G.C.E. Advanced Level.
3.1.2 Professional Qualification  : Not applicable
3.1.3 Experience
Should be an officer serving in a post of Sri Lanka Technological Service of the Department of Survey
having confirmed in the service and should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service
not less than five years.
3.1.4 Physical Qualifications
Every candidate should be a person who is physically fit in every respect to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka with three dimensional sight void of color blindness.
3.1.5 Other
Should have completed a satisfactory service during the immediately preceding period of five (05)
years and should not have been subject to disciplinary punishment

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
15A
3.1.6 Maximum age limit: No age limit
3.2 Method of Recruitment: By a structured interview and general interview.
3.2.1 S tructured Interview
Headings to which marks are Maximum Marks Pass Marks
given after scrutiny
1. Performance (as per
performance reports)
2. Period of service
3.2.1.1 The Appointing Authority of the structured interview board : Surveyor General
3.2.2 General Interview (Marks will not be given)
General interview is conducted by the structured interview board at the same time.
3.2.2.1 Objectives expected to be fulfilled
Examination as to whether the candidates have fulfilled the qualifications required for recruitment
as an Apprentice Surveyor in accordance with the qualifications stipulated in the gazette
notification published and the examination of general physical fitness.
3.3 Method of calling for Applications
By publishing a notice in the gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka or the departmental
circulars and by publishing in the website.
3.4 Salary category and Salary scale entitled to the post of Apprentice Surveyor,
MN-5-2016      
Rs. 34,605 - 10 X 660 - 11 X 755 - 15 X 930 – 63,460/-   
Appendix “B”
Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Services – Efficiency Bars
 There are three efficiency bar examinations in the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Services.
1
stEfficiency Bar
An officer recruited to Grade III of the Service should prior to completion of 3 years from the date of recruitment
to the Service pass the first efficiency bar examination which will be a written examination with the following
syllabus. Minimum of 40 marks for each paper shall be obtained for the following two question papers.
Marks will be given in terms of a
marking scheme approved by the Public
Service Commission
Not applicable

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
16A
Name of the question paper T ime Maximum marks Pass marks
1. Departmental Survey Regulations 3 hours 100 40
and Standing Orders.
2. Establishments Code, Procedural
Rules and Financial Regulations 3 hours 100 40
1. Departmental Survey Regulations and Standing Orders
One question paper relating to Departmental Survey Regulations, Technical Instructions, Standing Orders,
Government Tender Procedure.
2. Establishments Code, Procedural Rules and Financial Regulations
This is a question paper prepared on the matters related to the following subjects in the Establishments Code,
Procedural Rules and Financial Regulations
(a) Financial Regulations (Other than the Chapter X);
(b) Chapters of Establishments Code (I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XXVIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI,
XXXIII, XLVIII)
(c) Procedural Rules published by the Public Service Commission (Including the amendments)
2nd Efficiency Bar:
The 2nd efficiency bar examination which will be a written test with the following syllabus should be passed prior
to completion of three years (03) after promotion of the officers in Grade II to the grade II. Minimum of 40 marks
for each paper should be obtained for the following two question papers.
Name of the question paper T ime Maximum marks Pass marks
1. Land Law and Surveying of Lands 3 hours 100 40
2. Field Survey Management 3 hours 100 40
(1) Land Law and Surveying of Land - One question paper relating to Land Law, Land Administration, Modern Surveying
Technology and Cadastral Surveying
(2) Field Survey Management - One question paper relating to Management and Organisation of Office and Field
Duties
3
rd Efficiency Bar
Officers in Grade I should complete five short term courses (05) in Surveying Science or Management for senior
officers conducted by the Institute of Surveying and Mapping or Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration
prior to completion of five (05) years after promotion of officers in Grade I to Grade I.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
17A
Appendix “C”
The Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service will consist of public officers appointed to Grade III, II, I and Special Grade in the
approved cadre of any of the following departments.
i) Department of Survey
ii) Land Commissioner General’s Department
iii) Department of Railway
iv) Department of Coast Conservation
Appendix “D”
01.Name of the examination: Examination conducted for the determination of seniority in the appointment to Grade III of
the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service.
02. Details of the examination: In the appointment to the Grade III of Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service, a written examination
with the following syllabus will be conducted for the determination of the seniority. The seniority will be determined
on the average of the marks obtained for 02 question papers by the relevant candidates.
Name of the Question paper Time
1 Practical Surveying & Leveling 03 Hours
2 Survey Information Management 03 Hours
03. Examination authority : Department of Examinations Sri Lanka
04. Syllabus for the examination :
1) Practical Surveying and Leveling.
(i) Use and establishment of horizontal vertical control network.
(ii) Use of surveying and leveling instruments and accuracy.
(iii) Management of human and physical resources for surveying of lands.
(iv) Collection of spatial / non spatial data by different data sources. (Preparation of plans / digital data as
appropriate for and according to the requirements of land information)
(v) Collection of land information and preparation of a data base
(vi) Identifying of state / private lands.
(vii) Identifying of legal frames for each land.
  (viii) Preparation of topographical plans.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 24.12.2018
18A
2) Survey information management.
(i) Practical knowledge required for different types of survey requests.
(ii) Preparation of land surveys. (including journals )
(iii) Understanding required for reservation of lands for reserves and public works.
(iv) Coordination of related institutions.
01- 166
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.