

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2396$32 - 2024 wf.daia;= ui 07 jeks nodod - 2024'08'07
No. 2396/32 -  wedNesday,  august  07,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- g 42422 - 05  (08/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI   LANkA   TELECOmmuNICATIONS   ACT,   No.   25   Of   1991
RegulatioNs made by the Minister of technology under section 71 (1) read with section 17 (10) of the sri lanka 
telecommunications act, No. 25 of 1991 as amended by sri lanka telecommunications (amendment) act, No. 27 of 1996 
and sri lanka telecommunications (amendment) act, No. 39 of 2024.
 Ranil WickRemesinghe,
 President,
 Minister of technology.
Colombo,
7th august, 2024.
Regulations
 1. these Regulations shall be cited as the telecommunications infrastructure sharing Regulations No.  1 of 2024
 2. these Regulations shall apply to all operators licensed under section 17 (2) of the act.
 3. Radio access Network (RaN) sharing will include both Multi operator Radio access Network (MoRaN) and Multi 
operator Core Network (MoCN) methodology.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
2a
 4. the sharing of antenna structures shall be in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Commission in addition 
to these Regulations.
 5. sharing of the core network between two operators is not permitted under these Regulations.
 6. the objective of these Regulations shall be :
	 (i)	 to	reduce	the	inefficient	and	unnecessary	duplication	of	existing	telecommunications	infrastructure;
 (ii) to reduce up-front and operating costs of all telecommunications operators.
	 (iii)	 to	encourage	socially	efficient	investment	in	infrastructure	and	avoid	wasteful	replication	of	telecommunications	
infrastructure;
 (iv) to promote fair competition through the sharing of telecommunications infrastructure that is not easily 
replicable	and	whose	multiplication	raises	environmental	and	general	public	concerns;
	 (v)	 to	provide	benefits	to	consumers	in	terms	of	price,	quality	and	availability	of	services	and	attempt	to	alleviate	
their	concerns	regarding	the	safety	of	the	environment;
 (vi) to address the concerns of the public and the environmental and planning authorities over the environmental 
impact	of	multiplication	of	telecommunications	infrastructure;
 (vii) to promote more environmentally friendly practices, through the minimization of constructing and maintaining 
of telecommunications infrastructure.
 7. these Regulations provide for a telecommunications infrastructure sharing regime that enables the sharing of the 
applicable	telecommunications	infrastructure	between	the	Requesting	operators,	Sharing	operators	and	the	Owning	
operators.
 8. GENERIC PRINCIPLES Of  INfRASTRuCTuRE SHARING
 8.1 any owning operator that owns, operates or uses a telecommunications infrastructure may share its 
infrastructure	with	a	Requesting	operator	in	accordance	with	respective	license	conditions	on	mutually	agreed	
commercial and technical terms
 8.2 any owning operator that owns,operates or uses telecommunications infrastructure is obliged to negotiate and 
enter	into	an	ISA,	upon	request,	and	provide	access	to	its	telecommunications	infrastructure.
 8.3 in case of RaN sharing prior agreed commercial and technical terms of the mandatory isa together with a 
sharing application form should be submitted for the approval of the Commission.
 8.4 in order to promote fair competition, the Commission shall evaluate the competition-related aspects and anti-
competitive behaviour of operators.
 8.5 owning or sharing operator, should continue to ensure compliance with licence obligations about service 
provisioning	 to	 end	 users,	 QoS	 requirements,	 roll-out	 and	 environmental	 obligations,	 monitoring	 and	
compliance	to	all	applicable	laws	and	agreements,	if	required.
 8.6 operators shall maintain the telecommunications infrastructure sharing database and be accessible to other 
Operators/Providers.	The	required	database	information	shall	be	determined	by	the	Commission	from	time	to	
time and shall include, but not be limited to, available capacities of active and passive telecommunications 
infrastructure elements, physical space, site geographical locations, etc.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
3a
 9. OBLIGATIONS ON THE REQuESTING/OWNING OPERATORS WITH REGARD TO ISA 
 9.1.  General provisions on negotiation process
 
 9.1.1 operators wishing to share telecommunications infrastructure shall have the right or obligation (if 
mandatory) to negotiate and come to an agreement on the terms and conditions of an isa.
 9.1.2 the owning operator shall share telecommunications infrastructure with other sharing operators on 
a	first-come	first-served	basis,	determined	by	the	chronological	order	in	which	it	receives	requests	for	
sharing its telecommunications infrastructure.
 9.1.3 t elecommunications infrastructure sharing shall be provided based on the principles of impartiality and 
non-discrimination.
 9.1.4 all negotiations for isa  must be conducted by all parties in utmost good faith.
 9.1.5 the owning operator of telecommunications infrastructure must not:
	 a)	 obstruct	or	delay	negotiations;
 b) refuse to provide information relevant to an isa, including information necessary to identify the 
telecommunications infrastructure needed.
	9.1.6	 Negotiating	Operators	should	provide	sufficient	information	to	each	other	during	the	negotiation	process	
on issues related to telecommunications infrastructure sharing. such information shall be treated as 
confidential	by	the	negotiating	parties	at	all	times.	Response	to	any	such	request	should	be	prompt	to	
avoid delay.
 9.1.7 every isa  shall be in writing and shall specify the contractual terms and conditions agreed on by the 
parties.
 9.1.8 if the Commission directs to share infrastructure of any operator, such operators are obliged to negotiate 
the sharing of the mandated telecommunications infrastructure.
	9.1.9	 Owning	Operators	designated	as	having	Significant	Market	Power	(SMP)	in	the	infrastructure	market	
are	required	to	publish	a	Reference	Offer	approved	by	the	Commission.
 9.2 Sharing Agreement Negotiation Procedure
	9.2.1	 The	Owning	Operator	must	have	a	Sharing	Request	form	as	specified	in	Annex	A	that	can	be	instantly	
provided	to	the	Requesting	Operator.
	9.2.2	 The	Requesting	Operator	wishing	to	share	telecommunications	infrastructure	must	complete	and	submit	
a	Sharing	Request	form	to	the	Owning	Operator.
	9.2.3	 Within	7	working	days	from	the	date	of	submission	of	the	form	by	the	Requesting	Operator,	the	Owning	
Operator	must	complete	the	feasibility	study	and	provide	a	decision	to	the	Requesting	Operator	in	writing	
as	per	the	completed	form	given	in	Annex	B.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
4a
 9.2.4 the decision may be to:
	 a)	 confirm	the	availability	of	telecommunications	infrastructure	and	proposal	to	start	the	procedure	to	
complete	an	ISA;	or
	 b)	 confirm	the	availability	of	the	telecommunications	infrastructure	subject	to	suggested	reasonable	
amendments	to	the	application	and	proposed	date	to	start	the	procedure	to	complete	an	ISA;	or
	 c)	 reject	a	Sharing	Request.
	 9.2.5	 If	 the	feasibility	study	has	been	completed	and	availability	of	the	facility	is	confirmed,	the	time	frame	for	
completing	an	ISA	should	not	exceed	7	working	days	from:
 a) the date of the acceptance letter of the owning operator in case of a decision on the availability of 
the facility, or
	 b)	 the	date	the	Owning	Operator	receives	the	letter	from	the	Requesting	Operator	accepting	the	
suggested amendments in case of decision on availability subject to reasonable amendments.
	9.2.6	 The	commencement	date	for	sharing	the	requested	telecommunications	infrastructure	must	be	within	a	
reasonable	time	from	the	date	of	signing	the	ISA	by	both	parties	but	not	exceeding	30	working	days,	taking	
into	account	the	reasonable	time	to	develop	or	alter	the	requested	telecommunications	infrastructure,	if	
required.
	9.2.7	 Where	the	Requesting	Operator	requests	IS	and	the	existing	capacity	is	fully	utilized,	the	Owning	
Operator	shall	extend	the	capacity	to	allow	for	sharing,	provided	the	telecommunications	infrastructure	
is technically capable of withstanding the additional loads.
	9.2.8	 The	cost	incurred	by	the	Owning	Operator	to	develop	or	alter	the	requested	telecommunications	
infrastructure shall be borne by the sharing operator on mutually agreed terms.
	 a)	 The	Requesting	Operator	shall	be	obliged	to	pay	the	Owning	Operator	a	payment	to	compensate	
for	the	proportion	of	costs	efficiently	incurred	by	the	Owning	Operator	in	carrying	out	the	upgrade	
and	alteration	works	to	the	facilities	requested	for	sharing.
	 b)	 The	development	or	alteration	required	and	the	related	cost	should	be	jointly	assessed	by	the	parties	
or, where the parties cannot agree or consider it to be most practical, then by an independent third 
party	expert	appointed	by	agreement	of	the	parties	or	failing	such	agreement,	by	the	Commission.
 9.3  The details of the ISA
	 	 	The	ISA	shall	have	the	following	minimum	requirements	:
	 a)	 the	type	of	the	ISA;
	 c)	 the	key	terms	of	the	ISA;
	 d)	 the	timing	of	key	process	steps;
 e) Commercial (pricing) and technical (Qos, sharing architecture, maintenance arrangements) information

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
5a
 10. ISAs  RELATED  TO  RAN  SHARING
  Regulations 11,12,13 and 14 shall apply only to isas relating to RaN sharing.
 11  Submission of a Draft of ISA to the Commission
 11.1 applicants are obliged to submit the proposed isa  to the Commission for review and approval before such 
agreement is implemented. the applicants must submit their application consistent with the principles set out 
in these Regulations.
 11.2 the Commission shall publish the preliminary decision within 15 working days from the date of receipt if there 
are	no	issues	which	require	further	assessment	and	final	approval	of	the	ISA	will	be	made	within	10	days	from	
the closing of public comments for the proposed isa.
	 11.3	 The	Commission	holds	the	final	authority	over	the	approval	of	any	proposed	agreement	and	has	the	right	
to reject any agreement it deems not to be in the public interest. For the avoidance of doubt, any proposed 
amendments	to	existing	ISAs,	including	proposals	to	terminate	ISAs,	must	be	submitted	to	the	Commission	
for its prior approval, before such amendments or termination of the isa  can take effect.
 11.4 all applicants must meet licensing obligations and other rules and regulations applicable to them.
 12  OBLIGATIONS  Of   THE  COmmISSION ON  ISA  REVIEW/APPROV AL  PROCESS
  the procedure set out below will be applicable for the approval of the proposed isa  and the amendments to approved 
ISAs.	If	the	applicants	fail	to	provide	the	requested	information,	the	Commission	has	the	right	to	suspend	the	approval	
process.
 12.1 ISA Review Process
	 	 The	review	process	of	the	Commission	in	assessing	draft	ISAs	consists	of	six	stages.
 12.1.1	 STAGE	1	-Notification	to	the	Commission
 a) owning and sharing operators wishing to be engaged in isas must notify the Commission by 
submitting	a	formal	joint	application	(‘Application’)	given	in	Annex	C	together	with	a	final	ISA.
 b) the information shall be submitted as described in Regulation 13.
 c) upon receipt of the application, the Commission will assess whether a submitted application is 
complete or not and inform the applicants of the outcome of the completeness check and whether 
the Commission will commence with its regulatory assessment of the proposed isa.
 d) any incomplete applications will be deemed not to have been submitted and will be rejected by 
the Commission by default.
 12.1.2	 STAGE	2-	Regulatory	assessment	of	expected	benefits	and	risks
 a)	 Once	the	completeness	of	the	Application	is	confirmed,	the	Commission	will	conduct	an	assessment	
of	the	potential	benefits	and	the	risks	to	competition	and	consumers	more	generally	that	could	arise	
as a result of the proposed isa.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
6a
	 b)	 To	facilitate	this	assessment,	the	Commission	may	seek	further	information	and	clarification	from	
the	Applicants.	Applicants	are	required	to	respond	to	any	information	request	from	the	Commission	
within	the	timeline	stated	in	the	specific	request	for	information.
 c) the Commission’s decision to clear or refuse a proposed isa  will depend on its assessment of the 
net impact of the isa  on the relevant market(s).
	 d)	 To	undertake	this	assessment	and	identify	the	potential	risks	to	competition	and	benefits	to	
customers, the Commission will be guided by the following process:
	 (i)	 Defining	the	relevant	market(s)
  the Commission will identify the product/service and geographic market(s) that are likely 
to be affected as a result of the proposed isa. the Commission’s economic assessment will 
then	be	based	on	the	expected	outcomes	in	these	identified	market(s).
 (ii) establishing the counterfactual scenarios
  the Commission will adopt a counterfactual analysis to undertake its assessment. under 
this framework, the Commission will identify the potential competitive outcomes in the 
market as a result of the proposed isa  (“the factual scenario”) compared to a situation 
without the proposed isa  (“the counterfactual scenario”). the counterfactual scenario will 
be determined by the Commission on a case-by-case basis, depending on the state of the 
market at the time of the proposal, and the terms of the isa.
 
 (iii) identifying the potential risks to competition
  the Commission will follow a set of key principles to identify the potential risks of approving 
a proposed isa. these principles cover:
	 A.	 the	likely	impact	of	the	proposed	ISA 	on	direct	competition	between	the	Applicants;
	 B.	 the	 likely	impact	of	the	proposed	ISA	on	the	competitiveness	of	other	Operators	and	
Providers and
 C. the likely impact on outcomes in the telecommunications sector of sri lanka.
	 (iv)	 If	 the	Commission	concludes	that	a	proposed	agreement	leads	to	significant	negative	outcomes	
in the telecommunications market or poses a risk to national security, the Commission holds 
the	unequivocal	right	to	refuse	the	agreement.
	 (v)	 Where	 the	Commission	identifies	potential	risks	to	competition,	it	may	require	the	Applicants	
to offer some commitments and remedies to deal with these concerns.
	 (vi)	 Identifying	the	potential	efficiencies	and	customer	benefits
	 	 The	Commission’s	assessment	should	consider	the	potential	benefits	that	could	arise	from	
the	proposed	ISA,	relative	to	the	counterfactual.	These	potential	benefits	would	ultimately	
be	expected	to	accrue	to	the	end-users	in	the	relevant	downstream	market(s)	and	underpin	
the Commission’s view that isa  not leading to curtailment of effective competition.
 (vii)  assessing the net impact of the proposed isa
  the Commission will employ methodologies setout in Competition Rules to determine 
whether	the	proposed	ISA	is	likely	to	give	rise	to	a	net	benefit,	based	on	the	assessment	above.	
Where	the	Commission	identifies	the	risk	of	anticompetitive	or	other	negative	effects,	it	may	

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
7a
require	the	sharing	parties	to	propose	remedies	and	commitments	to	avoid	these	concerns.	If	
the	remedies	do	not	sufficiently	address	the	Commission’s	concerns,	the	Commission	may	
refuse the proposed isa.
 12.1.3	 STAGE	3	-Preliminary	Decision
	 	 Based	 on	the	regulatory	assessment,	the	Commission	publishes	a	preliminary	decision	on		the	proposed	
isa within 15 working days of receiving comprehensive and complete responses to all information 
requests	issued	by	the	Commission	during	the	Stage	2.
  after conducting the assessment, the Commission would decide one of the following three preliminary 
positions:
	 a)	 The	proposed	ISA 	will	be	cleared	without	objection;	or
 b) the proposed isa  will be cleared subject to certain remedies and commitments by the applicants 
to	address	any	identified	concerns,	or
 c) the proposed isa  will be refused due to potentially adverse effects on competition or consumers 
more generally.
 12.1.4	 STAGE	4	-	Public	Notice
  after publishing its preliminary decision, the Commission will invite the applicants, as well as other 
relevant stakeholders, including market competitors, to comment on the Commission’s preliminary 
views and to submit evidence-based arguments as to why they agree or disagree with the Commission’s 
preliminary decision within seven working days from the date of publication.
	 	 The	 Commission	may	then	publish	these	responses,	subject	to	confidentiality	considerations,	giving	the	
applicants an opportunity to provide responses to the industry comments.
 12.1.5	 STAGE	5-	Proposed	Remedies	by	Applicants
	 	 The	Applicants	 may	be	required	to	offer,	or	may	choose	to	offer,	to	the	Commission,	commitments	to	
address	any	identified	concerns.	This	would	be	the	case	if:
	 a)	 In	 its	preliminary	decision,	the	Commission	identifies	potential	concerns	with	the	proposed	
agreement	but	recognizes	the	scope	for	certain	remedies	to	address	those	concerns;	or
 b) the applicants proactively choose to make commitments.
 12.1.6	 STAGE	6	-	Final	decision	of	the	Commission
  on the basis of wider stakeholder comments and any commitments made by the applicants, the 
Commission	shall	publish	its	final	decision	on	its	official	website.	The	Commission	expects	to	issue	its	
final	decision	within	10	working	days	from	the	date	of	closing	the	public	comments.
The	final	decision	would	be	either
 a) to approve the proposed isa  (either unconditionally, or subject to remedies), or
 b) to refuse approval of the isa.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
8a
 13. INfORmATION REQuIREmENTS I N THE IS APPLICATION
    13.1 The details of the proposed ISA
 i.		The	ISA	shall	have	the	following	minimum	requirements	:
	 a)	 the	parties	to	the	ISA;
	 b)	 the	type	of	the	ISA;
	 c)	 the	key	terms	of	the	ISA;
	 d)	 the	timing	of	key	process	steps;
 e) Commercial (pricing) and technical (Qos, sharing architecture, maintenance arrangements) 
information
 (ii )  the parties shall submit all relevant licences and approvals obtained from the Commission pertaining to 
the proposed isa
	 (iii)	 The	parties	shall	submit	a	copy	of	the	final	ISA,	as	part	of	their	joint	application.
 13.2 The strategic and economic rationale for the ISA
  applicants should describe the strategic motivation for entering into the proposed isa. this must include:
	 a)	 the	extent	of	expected	CAPEX	and	OPEX	savings	as	a	result	of	the	ISA;
	 b)	 the	expected	impact	of	the	ISA	on	meeting	coverage	obligations	and	improving	QoS.
	 	 Where	 possible,	the	Applicants	must	also	identify	to	what	extent	these	savings	and	service	improvements	
can	translate	to	efficiencies	and	benefits	for	customers	in	the	relevant	market(s).
 c) t o support this assessment, the applicants must provide any documents prepared internally, or by 
external	consultants,	that	discuss	such	expected	efficiencies	or	relevant	customer	benefits.
 13.3 An assessment of the competition risks and proposed mitigation strategies
  applicants should describe the kinds of competition risks that the proposed isa  could potentially give rise to. 
These	must	include	the	risks	identified	in	these	regulations,	as	well	as	other	risks	that	the	Applicants	believe	to	
be relevant and potentially substantial.
	 	 For	each	of	the	competition	risks	identified,	the	 Applicants	must	either:
	 a)	 provide	potential	remedies	to	mitigate	the	impact	of	this	risk;	or
	 b)	 briefly	describe	why	they	believe	that	the	proposed	ISA	is	unlikely	to	give	rise	to	the	risk.
  13.4 Details of sharing of commercially sensitive information
	 	 This	should	include	any	internal	process/protocol	that	will	be	put	in	place	to	restrict	the	flow	 of	commercially	
sensitive information within different departments of the applicants. in particular, the plan must provide an 
insight on how the following processes will be managed under the sharing agreement:
	 a)	 operations;
	 b)	 performance	reporting;
	 c)	 capacity	forecasting;
	 d)	 technology	strategy	and	roadmaps;
 e) shared network investment decisio ns.
 13.5 Resilience plan
  applicants should provide a detailed Network Resilience Plan for the shared infrastructure and a disaster 
Recovery Plan, or updates thereof.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
9a
13.6 . forward looking investment and roll-out plans
  the applicants must individually submit their forward-looking investment and roll-out plans to allow the 
Commission to assess their individual incentives in the presence and absence of the proposed isa.
 13.7 Approach for identifying and mitigating security risks
  the applicants must provide a detailed plan to tackle any potential concerns that may arise as a result of the 
proposed	ISA	in	meeting	the	requirements	on	network	security.	Even	if	Applicants	believe	that	the	proposed	
ISA	is	unlikely	to	give	rise	to	security	concerns,	the	Application	must	still	address	the	same	and	explain	why	
they are unlikely to be affected.
 13.8 Continued compliance with regulatory and license obligations
  the applicants must demonstrate that they will continue to comply with the regulatory and legal obligations 
as set out in their licenses, other Rules and regulations.
 13.9 An “Exit plan”
  the applicants should provide a high-level overview of the plan if the applicants wish to dissolve the isa. 
this plan must indicate, broadly, the steps that will be taken to transition from the provision of services 
over the shared network to provision of the services over separate networks, in a way that prevents service 
disruption and any possible harm to consumers.
	 14.	 The	flow	chart	setting	out	the	regulatory	procedure	to	be	followed	in	the	review	process	of	ISA	for	RAN	sharing	is	
annexed	in	Appendix	1	for	guidance.
 15. INfRASTRuCTuRE SHARING PRICING
 (i) Prices for sharing of telecommunications infrastructure shall be fair, reasonable and based on cost.
	 (ii)	 The	Commission	may	require	any	operator	to	provide	justification	for	their	sharing	facilities	and	component	
prices	and	may,	where	appropriate,	require	that	any	or	all	prices	be	adjusted	so	that	they	are	in	accordance	with	
the industry prices or prices determined by the Commission in accordance with these Regulations and the act
 16. DISPuTE RESOLuTION
 (i) the Commission may conduct the dispute resolution process entirely on submission of documents and if 
necessary the parties may be called for an oral hearing.
 (ii) the Commission may resolve the following disputes arising between the parties in accordance with the 
provisions of these Regulations if such a dispute is referred to the Commission within the deadlines stipulated 
in each respective subparagraph below:
	 (a)	 The	Owning	Operator	does	not	reply	to	a	Sharing	Request	within	the	timeframe	specified	in	these	
Regulations. submission of the dispute to the Commission must occur within 5 working days of the 
deadline	for	the	reply	from	the	Owning	Operator;
	 (b)	 The	Requesting	Operator	must	submit	to	the	Commission	if	it	wishes	to	dispute:
	 (i)	 within	5	working	days	from	the	date	of	requesting	operator	receives	the	Owning	Operator’s	notice/
letter	proposing	amendments;	or
	 (ii)	 within	5	working	days	from	the	date	of	receiving	the	letter	rejecting	the	Sharing	Request.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
10a
 (c) if the parties do not enter into an isa, submission of the dispute to the Commission must occur within 5 
working	days	of	the	deadline	for	finalizing	the	ISA;
	 (d)	 After	the	Requesting	Operator	has	accepted	the	Owning	Operator’s	proposed	amendments	and	the	
parties do not enter into an isa, the submission of the dispute to the Commission must occur within 5 
working	days	of	the	deadline	for	finalizing	the	ISA;
 (iii) the Referring Party must submit its complaint in writing to the Commission with all supporting documentation 
and evidence, including correspondence between the parties and statements from any witnesses it wishes to 
rely upon.
 (iv) the Commission must acknowledge receipt of the submission within 3 working days of receipt of the 
submission.
 (v) w ithin 10 working days of receipt of the submission the Commission must determine if the Referring Party 
has a valid complaint or not. if the Commission determines that the Referring Party does not have a valid 
complaint,	it	must	write	to	the	Referring	Party	within	15	working	days	of	receipt	of	the	submission	explaining	
in detail its reasons for considering the Referring Party’s submission and case to be invalid.
 (vi) if the Commission determines that the Referring Party has a valid complaint it will forward the dispute to the 
Other	Party	and	request	a	response	within	7	working	days	from	the	date	of	the	Commission	forwarding	the	
dispute	to	the	Other	party,	unless	the	Commission	specifies	otherwise.
 (vii) the other Party must respond to the Commission within 7 working days from the date on which the Commission 
forwarded	the	dispute	to	the	Other	party,	unless	the	Commission	specifies	otherwise.
 (viii)  the other Party’s response must address each point raised by the Referring Party and must provide full 
supporting documentation and evidence, including correspondence between the parties that may not have been 
relied upon by the Referring Party and statements from any witnesses it wishes to rely upon.
	 (ix)	 Upon	receipt	of	the	Other	Party’s	response	the	Commission	will	consider	whether	further	documentary	
evidence	is	required	and	make	written	requests	for	same	from	either	or	both	parties.
	 (x)	 Upon	receipt	of	all	required	documentary	evidence	the	Commission	will	notify	the	parties	of	the	expected	date	
of its decision on the resolution of the dispute.
	 (xi)	 If	the	Commission	determine	that	the	Owning	Operator	should	share	the	telecommunications	infrastructure	in	
question,	the	parties	must	enter	an	IS	Agreement	following	the	procedures	set	out	in	these	Regulations.
 17. Competition Rules published by the Commission shall apply for an assessment of the anticompetitive impact under 
these Regulations.
 18. the Commission may issue directives to the operators for sharing of infrastructure as per the act for implementation 
of these Regulations.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
11 a
 19. INTERPRETATIONS
	 	 In	these	Regulations,	unless	the	context	otherwise	requires:
“Act” means the sri lanka telecommunications act, No. 25 of 1991 and amendments thereto
“Applicants” means the participating parties in an isa  - owning operator and sharing operator.
“Commission” means the telecommunications Regulatory Commission of sri lanka Commission established 
under act No. 27 of 1996.
“Infrastructure” means a telecommunications facility including a line, submarine cable, distribution point, 
duct, pit, tunnel, manhole, tower, mast, pole, antenna structure and active network used for the purpose of 
providing telecommunication service
“Infrastructure Sharing Agreement (ISA)” means an agreement between an owning operator and a sharing 
operator for sharing the owning operator’s telecommunications network infrastructure (passive and 
active).
“Negotiating Operator” 		means	a	Requesting	Operator	and	Owning	Operator	negotiating	an	ISA.
“Owning Operator”  means an operator that owns, operates or uses a telecommunications network infrastructure.
“Provider”	 means	a	person	authorized	by	a	licence	under	Section	17B	to	provide	telecommunications	services,	
infrastructure facilities or cable landing station facilities.
“Radio Access Network (RAN)”  means a part of a telecommunication network that connects end user devices 
to the core network through a radio link.
“Referring Party”  means a Negotiating operator that refers a dispute to the Commission.
“Requesting Operator” means the licensed telecommunications system operator that submits a sharing 
Request	to	an	Owning	Operator.
“Sharing Operator” means an operator that shares the telecommunications infrastructure of an owning 
operator subject to the approved isa.
“Sharing Request”	 means	a	written	request	from	the	Sharing	Operator	to	the	Owning	Operator	to	share	a	
telecommunications infrastructure.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
12a


<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
13a
ANNEX	A	
INfRASTRuCTuRE SHARING REQuEST  fORm
(to	be	filled	by	the	Requesting	Operator)
 1. Details of Requesting / Sharing Operator:
 a. Name of the licensee / Company:
 b. license No. and date of issue / Renewal:
	 c.	 Type(s)	of	Telecommunication	Services	Provided	by	the	Requesting/Sharing	Operator:
 2. Details of the Owning Operator:
 a. Name of the licensee / Company:
 b. license No. and date of issue / Renewal:
 c. t ype(s) of telecommunication services Provided by the owning operator:
 3. Details of Approval by the Owning Operator:
 No. Items Description
	 1.	 Reference	Number	of	the	Request
 
 2. t ype of the infrastructure(s)
 
 3. location / address of the infrastructure
  
 4. Purpose of sharing the infrastructure
 
 5. duration of sharing
 
	 6.	 Date	of	Request	by	the	Requesting/Sharing	Operator
 
 7. last date of approval / Rejection by the owning operator
 
 8. last date of Negotiation
 
	 9.	 Inspection	or	Survey	to	the	Infrastructure	is	required	by	the	
	 	 Requesting/Sharing	Operator
 
 10. any other information
 
 ..........................................
	 Authorized	Signature	of	the	Requesting	/	Sharing	Operator

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
14a
ANNEX		B
INfRASTRuCTuRE   SHARING   APPROV AL/REJECTION   fORm
 1. Details of Infrastructure Requesting / Sharing Operator:
 a. Name of the operator / Company :
 b. license No. and date of issue / Renewal:
	 c.	 Type(s)	of	Telecommunication	Services	Provided	by	the	Requesting	/	Sharing	Operator:
 2. Details of the Owning Operator:
 a. Name of the operator / Company:
 b. license Number and date of issue / Renewal:
 c. t ype(s) of telecommunication services Provided by the owning operator:
   3. Details of Approval by the Owning Operator:
 SI. No. Items Description
	 1.	 Reference	Number	of	the	Requesting	/	Sharing	Operator	Request
 
 2. Reference Number of approval
 
 3. type of the infrastructure(s)
 
 4. location / address of the infrastructure
 
 5. duration of sharing
 
 6. date of agreement / Negotiation
 
 7. any other information
 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
15a
  4. Details of  Rejection by the Owning Operator:
	 1.	 Reference	Number	of	the	Requesting	/	Sharing	Operator	Request
 
 2. Reference Number of Rejection
 
 3. type of the infrastructure(s)
 
 4. location / address of the infrastructure
 
 5. duration of Rejection
  
 6. any other information
 ..........................................
 authorized signatory of the owning operator
 SI. No. Items Description

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
16a
ANNEX		C
INfRASTRuCTuRE   SHARING   JOINT   APPLICATION   fORm
 1. General information of the Applicants
 A. Details of Requesting / Sharing Operator:
 a. Name of the licensee / Company:
 b. license No. and date of issue / Renewal:
	 c.	 Type(s)	of	Telecommunication	Services	Provided	by	the	Requesting	/	Sharing	Operator:
 B. Details of the Owning Operator:
 a. Name of the licensee / Company:
 b. license No. and date of issue / Renewal:
 c. t ype(s) of telecommunication services Provided by the infrastructure Provider:
 2. Scope of the proposed ISA
      Details of the Sharing Infrastructure:
 No. Items Description
1. Reference	Number	of	the	Request
2. type of the infrastructure(s)
3. sharing architecture / design
4. location / address of the infrastructure
5. Purpose / Rationale of sharing the infrastructure
(Please provide the details as per Regulation 13.2, 13.3, 13.4 
and investment plan, roll out plan)
6. A	brief	assessment	of	the	likely	risks	identified
(Please provide the details as per Regulation 13.3, 13.5, 13.7, 
13.9 and mitigating regulatory risks)

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 07.08.2024
17a
No. Items Description
7. duration of sharing
8. Date	of	Request	by	the	.	Requesting	/	Sharing	
operator
9. last date of approval / Rejection by the owning 
operator
10. Proposed draft isa
11.   inspection or survey of the infrastructure is 
		required	the	Requesting/Sharing	Operator
12.   any other information
Instructions :
 1.  a  duly completed application must be submitted to the director general with a copy to the designated 
division of tRCsl.
 .......................................... ..........................................
	 Authorized	Signatory	of	the	Requesting	Operator	 Authorized	Signatory	of	the	Owning	Operator
eog  08  - 0093
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.