

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 103
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 92
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"003 – 2017 ckjdß ui 20 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'01'20
No. 2,003 –  fRiday ,  jaNuaRy  20, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th february, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th  january, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
89
Note.–  (i) institute of chartered corporate Secretaries of Sri Lanka (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part 
ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of january 06, 2017.
 (ii) international Women's and children's Rights council (iWcRc)  (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to 
the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of january 06, 2017.
Note.– Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,002 of 13.01.2017 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
90
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
91
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
92
Posts – vacant
PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION
ministry of Agriculture
dEPaRtmENt of aGRicuLtuRE
RecRuitment to the Post of LegaL officeR (gRade iii of 
the executive officeR categoRy) on oPen Basis  
APPLICATIONS are called for the post of Legal Officer of 
the department of agriculture from citizens of Sri Lanka 
who have satisfied the following qualifications.  
Task assigned to the Post.– Providing instructions for 
legal matters relating to activities which fall under the 
scope of the department of agriculture, formulation of 
legal documents such as drafts of acts, regulations relevant 
to the department, co-ordination with attorney General's 
department, involving in Human Rights complains and 
providing instructions regarding the cases in which being 
respondents on a matter falls under the scope of duties of 
the officers of the Department of Agriculture and appearing 
in cases. 
01. Method of Recruitment.– a structured interview will 
be conducted by a Board of interview appointed by the 
Public Service commission for the applicants who have 
fulfilled the requirements prescribed in this notification and 
recruitment will be made on the merit of the aggregate of 
marks obtained in the interview according to the marking 
scheme approved by the Public Service commission. 
02. Required Qualifications :
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications :
  Have obtained a degree in Law from a university 
ercognized by the university Grants commission 
or taken oaths as an attorney-at-Law in the 
Supreme court. 
 (ii) experience.– Have gained less than three (03) 
years active professional experience after taking 
oaths as an attorney-at-Law in the Supreme 
court. 
 (iii) Physical Recruitments :
  All applicants should be physically fit to serve in 
any part of Sri Lanka and to perform duties of the 
post. 
 (iv) Other :
 * Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 * Should be an excellent moral character,
 * Should have completed all required 
qualifications for recruitment to the post as at 
20.02.2017.
03. Conditions of engagement and Service Conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent. you will be subject 
to policy decisions that will be taken by the 
Government in the future on the pension 
scheme entitled to you. 
 (ii) this appointment is subject to a period of 
three (03) years probation. as prescribed in 
the Scheme of Recruitment First Efficiency 
Bar Examination should be passed within 
three (03) years from the date of recruitment 
to the post. 
 (iii) in terms of the provisions of Public 
administration circular No. 01/2014 dated 
21.01.2014 and provisions of circulars 
incidental thereto, you should confirm the 
obtaining of proficiency in official languages 
before the expiry of a period of five (05) 
years from the date of assuming duties. this 
appointment is subject to the Procedural 
Rules and the provisions of the Scheme of 
Recruitment for the post of Legal Officer of the 
department of agriculture and amendments 
already made and will be made in the future 
thereto. 
04. The age limit .– the age should not be less than 
21 years and more than 45 years as at the closing date of 
applications.
05. Salary Scale.– the monthly salary scale applicable 
to this post according to the Schedule i of Public 
Administration Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is 
Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 -8x1,630 - 17x2,170 - Rs. 110,895      
(SL-1-2016).
06. following marking scheme will be based on the 
awarding marks at the Structured interview : 
 The headings of  Minimum  Number of marks
 awarding marks marks to be considered 
   for selection
1. additional Educational  20 Not applicable
 Qualifications
2. Additional Professional 15 
 Qualifications
3. additional Experience 30
4. English Language  15
 Proficiency
5. Knowledge in 15
 information technology
6. Skills shown at the  05
 interview
      t otal 100 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
93
07. Identity of Applicants. – applicants who have 
submitted an application completed in every respect will 
only called for the structured interview. 
Originals and duly certified copies of all certificates 
should be furnished at the interview. the following 
identification documents will only be accepted at the 
interview for the proof of identity. 
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner 
of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid Passport,
 (iii) driving License. 
08. Method of forwarding applications :
 (i) applications should be posted by registered 
post to reach the following address on or before 
20.02.2017. applications received after the 
closing date of applications will be rejected. 
  director General of agriculture, 
  administration - 1 Branch,
  department of agriculture, 
  Peradeniya.
 (ii) a specimen of the application form is appended 
at the end of this notification. Applications 
should be prepared on a a4 size paper so as to 
Nos. 01 to 10 on the first page, Nos. 11 to 14 on 
the second page and rest on the third page and 
should be clearly filled by the applicant in his/
her own hand writing. 
 (iii) the words "application for the post of Legal 
Officer" should be marked on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. 
 (iv) Signature of the applicant in the application 
should be attested by a Principal of Government 
School/a justice of Peace/a commissioner for 
oaths/an attorney at Law/a Notary Public /a 
Commissioned Officer in three forces an officer 
in a Gazetted post in the Police Service or a 
Government Officer who holds a permanent post 
and receives monthly consolidated salary over 
Rs. 37,522 for a month. 
 (v) Officers who are already in the Public or 
Provincial Public Service should forward their 
applications through Head of the respective 
department.   
09. if any information in the application forwarded by 
you is found to be false or incorrect before the recruitment, 
your candidature will be cancelled. if such false or 
incorrect information is found afer the recruitment subject 
to the action to be taken in that regard. action will be taken 
to dismiss from the service. 
By order of the Public Service commission, 
 director General of agriculture, 
 administration 1 Branch, 
 department of agriculture. 
Peradeniya, 
20th january, 2017.
ministRy of agRicuLtuRe
dEPaRtmENt of aGRicuLtuRE
Application for Recruitment to the Post of Legal Officer
Serial No.  
For office use only
01. (i) full Name mr./mrs./miss. :––––––––––.
  (ii) Name with initials :––––––––––.
 (iii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
02. Permanent address :––––––––––.
03. temporary address :––––––––––.
04. Sex : male - 0/female - 1
05. Marital Status :  Married  Unmarried
  (mark P in the relevant cage)
06. citizenship :––––––––––.
07. State whether be a citizen by birth/registration :                     
––––––––––.
08. National identity card No. :
09. t elephone No. :
 fixed 
 mobile 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
94
10. (i) date of Birth : 
  y ear  month  date
 (ii) age as at the closing date of applications  :
  y ears  months  days
11. Qualifications :
   (i) Valid date of the degree :––––––––––.
   (ii) university/institution :––––––––––.
   (iii) degree :––––––––––.
12. Professional Qualifications and Experience : 
 (i) Experience gained as an attorney at Law in the 
Supreme court :––––––––––.
 (ii) ................................
 (iii) ................................
 (iv) ................................
13. Have you been accused in a court for a criminal              
offence ? yes/No :––––––––––.
 (i) if yes, state full detail including the date and case 
No.  :––––––––––.
14. Certification of Applicant : 
i hereby certify that particulars furnished by me in this 
application are true and correct. i am also aware that if any 
particular contained herein is found to be false or incorrect 
before the selection, my application will be rejected and if 
such offence detected after the selection, i will be liable to 
dimissal from the service. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date  :––––––––––.
15. Attestation of the signature of Applicant : 
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss .............................
..... is known to me personally and that he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on this day of ........................ 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester. 
date  :––––––––––.
16. Certification an recommendation of the Head of 
Department (Should be completed by the officers who 
are already in the Public Service) : 
i hereby certify mr./mrs./miss ................................ is 
employed in this ministry/department as .......................... 
his/her work and conduct are satisfactory and the particulars 
furnished by him/her are correct. if selected, he/she can/
can't be released from his/her present post.   
  ––––––––––––––,
  (Signature of the Head of department). 
date :––––––––––.
01–713  
–––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  juSTICE 
Calling for Applications for the Appointment of 
Inquirers (into Sudden Deaths) under section 108 
of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, 
No. 15 of 1979
aPPLicatioNS are invited to fill the vacancies in the 
Post of inquirers (into Sudden deaths) in respect of the 
areas referred to in the schedule given below.
02. applications prepared as per the specimen from 
given below should be sent under registered cover to 
reach the ‘‘Secretary, ministry of justice, Superior courts 
complex, colombo 12’’ on or before 28.02.2017 the 
words ‘‘Post of inquirer (into Sudden deaths) ........... 
district’’ should be written on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope containing the application. applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected without any 
notice.
03. this is not a permanent post in the Public Service. 
the appointments to the Post of inquirer (into Sudden 
Deaths) is made for a term of five years. This term may 
be extended for a period of further five years subject to 
medical reports of the person concerned and on the 
recommendations of the Magistrate and Officer - in - 
charge of the Police of the relevant area, provided that the 
maximum age limit should not exceed 70 years of the age 
of the applicant. Nevertheless, the minister of justice may 
at any time prior to the expiry of the full term, terminate the 
service of an inquirer (into Sudden deaths) with the reason 
being assigned for the termination to the relevant inquirer 
(into Sudden deaths). inquirer (into Sudden deaths) 
Divisions in which vacancies are to be filled are mentioned 
in the schedule given below.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
95
04. the persons who are appointed to the Posts of 
inquirer (into Sudden deaths) should perform the duties 
in accordance with the provisions laid down in the code of 
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.
05. This post does not carry a salay. However, a fee of 
Rs. 500/- per inquest, travelling expenses and subsistence 
allowances approved for inquirers (into Sudden deaths) 
will be paid.
06. applicants who possess the following requirements 
are eligible to apply.
Every applicant -
 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
 (ii) Should be a  resident during the last two years 
immediately preceding the date hereof within 
the area in which the appointment is expected.
 (iii) Should not be less than 30 years and not more 
than 62 years of age as at the closing date of 
applications.
 (iv) Should have possessed 03 passes at the G. c. E. 
(a/L) (Preference is given for those who have 
passed the G. c. E. (a/L) in Science stream).
 (v) Should be physically fit and should bear a 
excellent moral character. Priority will be given 
to non-smokers and teetotalers.
07. Persons who are in receipt of a salary or an 
allowance from the Government, or from a fund of a 
Provincial council or a Local Government institution as at 
the closing date of applications, employees and members 
of the Board of directors of State corporations or co-
operative Societies and members of Parliament, councilors 
of Provincial council or Local Government authorities are 
not eligible to apply for this post.
08. it is not necessary to enclose any documents with 
the application. However, applicants should produce at the 
interview sufficient proof in support of their qualifications. 
the originals of the following documnets should be 
submitted at the interview.
 (a) Certificate of Birth
 (b) Educational Certificates
 (c) National identity card
 (d) Certificate of Grama Niladhari to prove 
permanent residence
 (e) Two recently obtained character certificates
 (f) Other Certificates, if any, in support of additional 
qualifications
 (g) in case of the applicants who are pensioners, 
documentary evidence to prove the date of 
retirement.
09. All applications should be filled in legible 
handwriting according to the specimen format. applications 
submitted without indicating all required information will 
be rejected without any notice.
10. when filling the specimen form of application, 
details on eligibility criteria should be included accurately. 
the appointments of applicants falling into any category 
referred to in paragraph 7 above and the appointments of 
applicants who have furnished false information relating 
to paragraph 06 and 08 above will be cancelled, if the 
inaccuracy is detected after the appointment is made.
11. if an applicant who is appointed as an inquirer (into 
Sudden deaths) is subsquently appointed to a post described 
in the aforesaid paragraph 07, his/her appointment to the 
post of inquirer (into Sudden deaths) will cease from the 
date of appointment to such post.
 
PadmasiRi Jayamanna,
 Secretary,
 ministry of justice.
ministry of justice,
colombo 12. 
december, 2016.
PoSt of iNquiRER (iNto SuddEN dEatHS)
district divisional Secretary's division
Relevant magistrate's court inquirers (into Sudden deaths) division
Relevant Police Station Grama Niladhari division and No. where
  the applicant is resident

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
96
01.   (a) Na me with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
    (underline the Surname)
   (b) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
02. address :––––––––––––.
03. t elephone No. :––––––––––––.
04. National identity card No. :––––––––––––.
05. Date of Birth :––––––––––––.
06. age as at  :   years :––––––––––––  months :––––––––––––  days :––––––––––––.
07. Gender :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications : 
   (i)  G. c. E. (o/L) Examination : 
  Subject Grade Year Subject  Grade Year
   (ii) G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
  Subject Grade Year Subject  Grade Year
09. Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––.
10. Present occupation :––––––––––––.
11. Previous employment :––––––––––––.
12. (a) Whether you are an employee of the State, a State corporation/Provincial council, co-operative or Local 
Government authority ? : ––––––––––––.
 (b) if you have resigned/retired from service of an establishment above mentioned, please state the reason for such 
resignation/retirement :––––––––––––.
13. (a) Has your employer taken any disciplinary action against you :––––––––––––.
 (b) if so, the nature of the charge and its outcome :––––––––––––.
14. (a) (i) Have you ever been used for any offence in any court of Law ? :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Has any matter to which you were a party been ever referred  to a mediation Board for mediation :–––––––––.
 (b) if so, the result thereof :––––––––––––.
15. (a) do you presently hold a post of inquirer (into Sudden deaths) ? :––––––––––––.
 (b) If so, the date of first appointment and file No. with the Ministry ? :––––––––––––.
16. Details of other qualifications, if any, relevant to this appointment :––––––––––––.
17. Names, addresses and designations of the two persons from whom you have obtained character certificates :-
 (1) ...................................... (2) ......................................
  ......................................  ......................................
  ......................................  ......................................
i, do hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
97
 District Divisional Secretary's Inquirer Grama Niladhari
  Division (into Sudden Deaths) Division Division
   
ampara ampara ampara town Samapura
     tisspura
     Senanayakapura
     indrasarapura
     Saddatissapura
     Gemunupura
     mihindupura
     Nawagampura
     Karangawa
     jayawardenapura
 
   Kalmune  Kalmunekudy 01
     Kalmunekudy 02
     Kalmunekudy 03
     Kalmunekudy 04
     Kalmunekudy 05
     Kalmunekudy 07
     Kalmunekudy 08
     Kalmunekudy 09
     Kalmunekudy 10
     Kalmunekudy 11
     Kalmunekudy 12
     Kalmunekudy 13
     Kalmunekudy 14
     Kalmune (MD) 03
     Kalmune (MD) 01
   addalachchenai alamkulam dheegawapi 01
     dheegawapi 02
   maha oya Bintennapattuwa arantalawa
     North Borapola 
     Samagipura
     tempitiya
     Pulawala
     Bedirekka
     maha oya
     unuwathura Bubula
     thepelpola
     dambadeniya
     Kekirihena
     Bogamuyaya
     iddapola
     Kuda Harasgala
     Lahugala
     Kelawinna
     Pollabedda
   damana thottam Bakmitiyawa
     Pannalgama
     Kumana

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
98
  ampara (Contd.) damana ( Contd.) thottam ( Contd.) Veheragala
     thottama
     colony 18a
     ambalanoya
     madawalalanda
     madana
     thimbirigolla
    damana alahena
     damana
     Peranigama
     Karalewa
     Helagampura
     uksiripura
     muwangala
     Keenawatta
     Galmaduwa
 
   Padiyatalawa Padiyatalawa Padiyatalawa
     Kirawana
     Kehel Ulla
     Holike
     talapitaoya South
     marangala
     Kolamantalawa
     miriswatta
     dorakumbura
     Komana
  
    Serankada Palathuruwella
     Pulungasmulla
     Serankada
     moradeniya
     Pallegama
     Galode
     unapana
     Hagamwela
     Saranagama
     thalapitaoya Left
 
Anuradhapura Padaviya Parakramapura Biso Kotuwa
     Padaviya
     Sudarshanagama
     Binyaya
     Buddhangala
     Parakramapura
     Elikimbulagala
     maithripura
     abhayapura
     Kumbuthwewa
     urewa
     mahasenpura
 District Divisional Secretary's Inquirer Grama Niladhari
  Division (into Sudden Deaths) Division Division

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
99
  anuradhapura (Contd.) Padaviya (Contd.) Parakramapura (Contd.) Ruwanpura
     Bogahawewa
     Balayawewa
   Palagala Kiralawa Koralaya Ipulwehera
     West maneruwa
     Wambatuwewa
     Kalugala
     Parawahagama
     andiyagala
     Gambirisgas Wewa
     debatagollagama
     Budugeheenna
     Pelbendiyawa
     allewewa
     motottegama
     Kiridiwatta
     meewewa
     Hinguruwewa
    Uduruwa Koralaya Ambagaswewa
     West Balaluwewa i
     Balaluwewa ii
     Nelliyagama
     Pahalagama
     Karawilagama
     Gamsabha Halmilla Wewa
     Gonadeniyagama
   Kebitigollewa Kunchuttu Koralaya Sinhala Etaweerawewa
     central ihala usgollawewa
     Kunchuwattuwa
     Halmillawetiya
     Kanugahawewa
     Ethalaviddawewa
     Galawewa
     Bandara ulpatha
     Kurulugama
     thittagonuwa
     tammennawa
     Herathhalmillewa
     Kahatagollewa
     Bellankadawala
     Punchimudagama
     Wahalkada d 04
     Wahalkada D 05
     Wahalkada d 06
   Horowpothana mahapothana North thawalamhalmillewa
     anaolondawa
     Weerasole
     Kapugollewa
 District Divisional Secretary's Inquirer Grama Niladhari
  Division (into Sudden Deaths) Division Division

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
100
  anuradhapura (contd.) Horowpothana (contd.) mahapothana North ( contd.) Pahala divulwewa
     dutuwewa
     Wagollakada
     Wahalkada d 01
     Wahalkada d 02
     maradanmaduwa
 
    mahapothana South Rathmale
     Welangahaulpatha
     Parangiyawadiya
     Puliyankadawala
     diyathittawewa
     Nabadawewa
     dekethipothana
     dematawewa
   Kahatagasdigiliya Uddiyankulama North Kele Nikawewa
     Nelugollakada
     diganhalmillewa
     maha messalawa
     Kahatagasdigiliya East
     Kahatagasdigilya West
     Kiri Ibbaewa
     thurukkuragama
     maha Galkandegama
     mahakumbukwewa 
    Kalpe Koralaya West Mahakumbukwewa
     Gonumeruwewa
     Palippothana
     Rathmalgahawewa
     Kirigallewa
    Kadwath Koralaya North Keedawarankulama
     Probodagama
     Puhudivula
     Paranahalmillewa
     Maha Kumbukgollewa
     Punewa
     anekattiya
     Kadawath Rambewa
     Lolugaswewa
     Hirallugama
     Ethakada
     Etaweeragollewa
     mahadivulwewa
     isinbessagama
     Ekirikanda
     Helambagaswewa
     agunochchiya
     Kirigalwewa
     Kidagalegama
     moragoda
     unagaswewa
     Karamban Kulama
 District Divisional Secretary's Inquirer Grama Niladhari
  Division (into Sudden Deaths) Division Division

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
101
  anuradhapura (contd.) Kahatagasdigiliya Eppawala Eppawala
    (contd.)  Kadigawa
     Kiriamunukole
     Nallamudawa
     mawathawewa
     Galmaduwa
     Keledivulwewa
     Kelesiyambalewa
     medagala
     ihalagama
     Kattiyawa Yaya 06
     Kattiyawa Yaya 09
     Kattiyawa Yaya 10
     Kattiyawa Yaya 01
     Kattiyawa Yaya 02
     Eliyadivulwewa
     Kadurugaswewa
     ihala Siyambalewa
     Palugaswewa
     mediyawa
     Edagala
     Galwaduwagama
     ihala Halmillewa
     Rajjallegama
     adhiranigama
     Kiralogama
     Ketakele
   Pandulagama Pandulagama/ ulukkulama
    Epayapattuwa Pahalagama
     mahabulankulama
     mahamankadawala
     ilandagahawewa
     Elayapattuwa
     maningamuwa
     mahaehetuwewa
     diganegama
     Puiyankulama
     Viharakallanchiya
     Viharapalugama
     Pandulagama
     abhayawewa
   Thirappane Ulagalla Koralaya South Mannakkulama
     Pethisrambewa
     alagollewa
     muriyakadawala
     ihala ambatale
     Kattamurichchana
     alisthanaya
     Wannammaduwa
     Sembukulama
 District Divisional Secretary's Inquirer Grama Niladhari
  Division (into Sudden Deaths) Division Division

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
102
anuradhapura (contd.) thirappane ( contd.) Ulagalla Koralaya South Ethungama North
     (contd.) Ethungama South
     meewellawa
     Labunoruwa
     Kadupagama
     Pahala ambathale
     amunuchchiya
     Sadapagama
     uttupitiya
    Ulagalla Koralaya North Uttimaduwa
     Wannamkulama
     mawathawewa
     Periyathulama
     Pairamaduwa
     dematawewa
     Galkulama
     Karuwalagaswewa
     Gnanikkulama
     Perimiunkulama
     Kuttikulama
     Puliyankulama
     thirappane Bazaar
     thirappanegama
     aluth Punchitulama
     Selesthimaduwa
    41 a thulana mawathawewa
     Payirimaduwa
     Puliyankulama
     a thulana
   Ipalogama Kalagam Koralaya North Walawwegama
     Palugaswewa farm
     amunuwetiya
     Vijithapura
     Kalawewa
     Kusalanagama
     amanakkattuwa
     500 Acres
     Elakagama 02
     Elakagama 05
     Sangattewa
     ipalogama
     manewa
     Ganthiriyagama
     Senapuragama
     Narangallegama
     aswedduma
     Galwangudwa
     Kallanchiyagama
     Konapathirawa
 District Divisional Secretary's Inquirer Grama Niladhari
  Division (into Sudden Deaths) Division Division

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
103
  anuradhapura (contd.) ipalogama ( contd.) Kalagam Koralaya North Kadiyangalla
     (contd.) Vedinigama
     Galagedaragama
     aluth Wavatena
     Wellamudawa
     mahakanumulla
     indigahawewa
     Payindikulama
     dayagama
     Walagambahuwa
   Nochchiyagama Nilachchiya South Halmillakulama
     dunudambuwewa
     Ralapanawa colony
     Pahamunegama
     Nawakkulama
     Galadivulwewa
     dunupothagama
     dombawalagama
     jayagama
     amunukole
     Nelawagama
     Pahala Halmillewa
     Pahala Kedithokkuwa
     mihiripura
     Rankethgama
     oththappuwa
01-486
 District Divisional Secretary's Inquirer Grama Niladhari
  Division (into Sudden Deaths) Division Division
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
EDuCATION SERvICES COmmITTEE Of 
ThE PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Education
comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR tHE 
REcRuitmENt of  GRaduatES to GRadE 3 – i 
(a) OF SRI LANKA TEACHERS’ SERVicE foR tHE 
V acaNciES ExiStiNG iN G.c.E. (a/L) SiNHaLa, 
tamiL aNd ENGLiSH mEdium tEacHiNG iN 
NatioNaL ScHooLS – 2017
aPPLicatioNS are invited to recruit graduates to grade 
3 – i (a) of Sri Lanka teachers’ Service for the vacancies 
existing in G.c.E. (a/L) classes for Sinhala, tamil and 
English media existing in national schools in the island. 
applications prepared per the specimen form annexed at 
the end of this notification should be sent to “Commissioner 
General of Examinations, Sri Lanka department of 
Examinations P.O. box 1503, Colombo” by registered post 
on or before the date appearing below. further more, the 
name of the examination should be appeared in English in 
both Sinhala and tamil applications.
 
closing date of applications will be 13.02.2017
Note: No consideration will be given in case of an 
application or a related document loss or delay in 
post. the applicant should bear the loss caused by 
delaying the applications until the closing date.
02. Method of Recruitment and Service Conditions :
 2.1   according to the priority of the total marks 
obtained by the candidates, obtaining a minimum 
of 40% of marks for each question paper at the 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
104
written competitive  examination conducted by the commissioner General of Examination, candidates will be 
directed to a general interview and recruitments will be made as per the existing number of vacancies depending 
on school based methodology. Candidates without qualifications in this Gazette notification will be rejected at 
the interview. 
 2.2   most of the vacancies pertaining to this Gazette notification exists in schools in remote areas. Relevant vacancies 
list will be exhibited at the time of the interview of the candidates. accordingly, candidates should indicate 
respectively in order of their preferance to obtain appointments in the vacated workstations. 
Note: According to the school-based system, when more than one candidate with equal marks have 
requested the same school, the priority will be given based on the distance to school to the candidate. 
 2.3   Since appoinments are made to these vacancies subject to school based system, no transfers will be given before 
05 years. 
 2.4 
Subject No. of Vacancies
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium english Medium
Business Studies - - P
Economics - - P
accounting - - P
Business Statistics - - P
agricultural Science P P P
information & communication technology - - P
combined maths P P P
chemistry P P P
Physics P P P
Bio Science P P P
Science for technology P P -
Engineering technology P P -
Bio Systems technology P P -
03. Conditions to be engaged in service :
 (i) this post is permanent. you are to be bounded by the policy decisions taken in the future with regard to 
the pensions scheme entitled to you.
 (ii) Officers appointed to this posts are subject to a probationary period of 03 years and should pass the first 
efficiency bar examination within the said three (03) years. 
 (iii) You are to obtain the competency in the official language according to public administration circular No. 
01/2014 and other circulars incidential there to. 
 (iv) this appointment is subject to procedural rules of the public service commission. Establishment code 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka financial regulations of the government and other 
departmental regulations.
 (v) this appointment is subject to provisions appeared in Sri Lanka teachers’ Service minute published in 
Gazette extraordinary No. 1885/38 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on 23.10. 2014, 
revisions to the said service minute as well as general conditions pertaining to appointments of the public 
service.
04. Salary Scale.– this post is entitled for a salary scale G.E. 01- 2016 which is Rs. 27,740 – 300 x 6 – 380 x 
7 – 445 x 2 – Rs. 33,090 (monthly) as per public administration salary Circular No. 03 /2106. Salary will be paid as per 
provisions indicated in Schedule ii of the said circular. apart form that you are entitled to other allownaces paid time to 
time by the government to the government officers.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
105
05. Educational Qualifications :
 5.1  A degree from a University recognized by the 
university grants commission or any other 
institution awarding degrees recognized by 
the university grants commission should 
have been obtained at 13.02.2017  as per Sri 
Lanka teachers’Service minute.
Note: Graduates applying for Science for 
technology should have followed Physics 
as a main subject for the degree while those 
applying for Bio Systems technology 
should have obtained an agriculture degree. 
those applying for Engineering technology 
should possess a degree relevant to the 
fields of technology, motor mechanism, 
construction, electricity and electronics. 
Graduates applying in English media either 
should have followed the degree in English 
media or should have studied English as a 
subject to the degree.
 5.2 As per the provisions of Sri Lanka Teachers’ 
Service minute, either Sinhala or tamil 
language should have been passed as a 
subject at the ordinery level examination. 
Note.– those who possess examination results 
equivolant to G.c.E. (o/L) examination 
results as accepted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations too can apply for 
this. 
06. Age Limit.– age should be not less than 18 years and 
not more than 35 years at 13.02.2017
07. Other Qualifications :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka. 
 (ii) Should have an excellent character.
 (iii) All qualifications should be completed at the 
closing date mentioned in the notification for 
calling applications at the closing date of the 
applications.
 (iv) Every candidate should be physically and 
mentally competant enough to work at any area 
in Sri Lanka and perform duties in the post. 
08. Method of Application :
 
 8.1  application should be in consistant with the 
model specimen attached herewith to the 
notification and the applicant himself / herself 
should complete the same after preparing it using 
both sides of a a4 size paper. Special attention 
should be paid to prepare the application as 
heading Nos. 1.0 to 3.5 on first page while 4.0 to 
7.0 on the second page. applications inconsistant 
with the specimen application and incomplete 
applications will be rejected without notice. 
(Keeping a photocopy of the application would 
be useful.) applicant should see whether the 
application being completed is consistant with the 
specimen application appeared in examination 
notification. Otherwise, the application will be 
rejected.
 
 8.2 Subject applied and language medium will not 
be changed and appeals pertaining to it will not 
be considered.
 8.3  one candidate can only submit one application.  
 8.4 Signature of the applicant should be attested by 
a Principal of a government school / a justice of 
peace, a commissioner for oaths, an attorney 
at law, a lawyer, a commissioned officer in 
the armed forces, an officer holding a gazetted 
rank in the Police force or a government officer 
holding a permanent post obtaining a basic salary 
of Rs. 240,360/- per annum.
 8.5 Accurately completed applications should be 
sent by registered post on or berfore 13.02.2017 
to “Commissioner General of Examinations, 
organisations and foreign Examinations 
Branch, Sri Lanka Examinations department, 
P.O. box 1503, Colombo”. The title “Competitive 
Examination for the Recruitment of  Graduates 
to Grade 3 – i (a) of Sri Lanka teachers’ Service 
for the Vacancies Existing in G.c.E. (a/L) 
Sinhala, tamil and English medium teaching in 
National Schools – 2017” should compulsorily 
be appeared on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope containing the application. 
 8·6 applications inconsistant with the specimen and 
incompleted application will be rejected. No 
consideration will be made for loss or delay of 
applications on post.
 8.7  No notification of receipt of applications will be 
issued. the department of Examinations may 
publish a newspaper notification immediately 
after issuance of admissions. if admissions 
were not received even after 2 or 3 days after 
the publication of the notification, it should be 
informed to Sri Lanka Examinations department 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
106
as notified in the notification. It will be more 
successful to send Sri Lanka Examination 
Department the certified photocopies of the 
application and registered paying in voucher, 
along with, a fax number to receive the admission 
if the candidate is away from colombo and your 
request letter annexed there to.
 
09. Appearing the examination :
  9.1  commissioner General of Examinations may 
issue admissions to all candidates submitted 
applications. candidates appearing the 
examination should submit their admissions with 
their certified signatures to sit the examination. 
Permission will not be given to any other 
candidate fail to submit as such. 
 9.2   a candidate shall sit the examination at the 
examination hall given for him/ her. Every 
applicant should submit the superintendent of the 
examination hall the signature certified admission 
at the first day before sitting the examination in 
the precise examination hall. candidates are 
abide by all laws and regulations enforced by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. He / 
she has to be subject to penalties enforced by the 
commissioner General of Examinations if the 
said laws and regulations are violated.
Note.– issuance of an admission to a candidate is not 
considered as an acceptence of qualifications for 
sitting the examination. 
10. Identity of Candidates.– a candidate shall prove 
his identity at each subject he/ she is sitting for at the 
examination hall. in order to prove that any of the following 
documents will be accepted :
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) Valid Passport
11. Penelty for submission of false information.– if 
a candidate is revealed to have no qualificaton, his / her 
candidature will be cancelled before examination or during 
the examination or after the examination or any time. if 
any particulary fact furnished by a candidate is revealed 
to have been false, or he / she has submerged an important 
matter on purpose, he / she is subject to dismissal from 
service. 
12. Method of  examination and Medium of 
examination.– this examination will be conducted 
in Sinhala, tamil and English media at district level. 
Examination consist of two subjects. it is compulsory to 
obtain at least 40% marks from each question paper in 
order to obtain a pass. 
13. Syllabus.– Precise number of question papers 
for this examination are two. it is compulsory for all the 
candidates to sit both of these question papers.
 01  aptitude test – time 01 hour (marks 100)
    this examination paper is prepared with the 
objective of measuring the skill for teaching 
profession and logical intellegence. this consist 
of 50 questions with multiple choice and short 
answer type questions. all the questions should 
be answered. 
 02 General knowledge – time 01 hour (marks 100)
 
 Consist of 50 multiple choice and short answer 
type questions to examine general knowledge 
and/or general knowledge on educational trends 
occurred locally and general knowledge on 
educational modifications. All the questions 
should be answered. 
14. examination Fees :
  14.1  Examination fee will be Rs. 600/-. the voucher 
obtained to the name of the candidate himself 
paying to any post office/sub post office to 
the name of the commissioner General of 
Examination under income heading 2003-
02-13 should be affixed in the precise place 
and indicate voucher number. (Keeping a 
photocopy of the voucher will be of use.) No 
money orders or stamps will be accepted as the 
examination fee. Payment for the examination 
will not be reimbursed or transferred to any 
other examination what so ever happenes. 
 14.2  Examination result sheet prepared per priority 
of the total marks of the written examination 
will be handed over to the Secretary of the 
ministry of Examinations by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. Results will be sent 
to all candidates sat the examination or will be 
published in www.results.exam.gov.lk site.
15.  Instructions to complete the application.– use only 
Schedules 1 and 2 when completing applications. 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
107
scheduLe no. 01
Medium of Language Code No.
Sinhala medium 1
tamil medium 2
English medium 3
scheduLe no. 02
Subject Subject 
Code No.
Business Studies 1
Economics 2
accounting 3
Business Statistics 4
agricultural Science 5
information and communication technology 6
combined maths 7
chemistry 8
Biology 9
Physics 10
Science for technology 11
Engineering technology 12
Bio Systems technology 13
16. It is compulsory for those officers already in the 
Government service to submit the application certified by 
their Head of the department under Heading 7.0 in the 
application. 
17. candidates unable to appear the interview at the 
precise date of the interview will not be considered for a 
second time. 
18. In addition, all certificates should be submitted at 
the day of the interview and no certificate submitted later 
on will not be accepted. 
19. for any particular matter not covered from this 
notification, the right to decide on that and the final 
decision to fill a portion or total of the particular vacancies 
lies with the Education Services committee of the Public 
Service commission. 
20. in case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, tamil 
and English languages in the announcement published, 
Sinhala notification will be considered accurate in such 
circumstances. 
By order of the Education Services committee,
 
suniL hettiaRachchi,
 Secretary,
 ministry of Education.
isurupaya,
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla,
20th january, 2017.
sPecimen  aPPLication
                   For Office Use Only   
   
miNiStRy of EducatioN
Competitive examination for the reCruitment of  
Graduates to Grade 3 – i (a) of sri Lanka teaChers’ 
serviCe for the vaCanCies existinG in G.C.e. (a/L) 
sinhaLa, tamiL and enGLish medium teaChinG in 
nationaL sChooLs – 2017
medium in which appeared for examination :
 Sinhala medium  - 1
 t amil medium  - 2 
 English medium - 3
                                                                                                                              
(use schedule for the medium of language in which the 
candidate is appearing and indicate the relevant number) 
Subject Subject
Code No.
1
2
3
(a maximum of 03 subjects can be applied for as per 
subjects and code numbers in the Schedule 2 and those 
subjects applied for should be the major subjects you have 
followed for the degree) 
01. 1.1   Name in full (in Block letters) (ex: AMRAKOON  
mudiyaNSELaGE  NamaL HERatH) 
  :––––––––––––. 
 1.2  Name with initials written the last name first and 
initials at the end (Ex. : HERatH.a.m. N.) 
  :––––––––––––.
 1.3   Name in full (in Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
108
02.  Present address ( in Block letters ) :––––––––––.
 (admissions will be sent to this address) 
03.  3.1  National identity card No. :
  3.2 marital Status :
   unmarried-1  married -2
      Write the relevant No. in the cage             
                    
  3.3 date of Birth :
 year             month            date 
  3.4  age as at 13.02.2017 :        
   y        m                 d
  3.5 Sex :
    (female – 1    male – 0) 
   (Write in the relevant cage)
04. Details of Educational Qualifications :
 G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
 y ear :––––––––.  index No. :––––––––.
 Subject Pass Subject  Pass
 1 6
 2 7
 3 8
 4 9
 5 10
 G. c. E. (a/L) Examination 
 y ear :––––––––.  index No. :––––––––.
  Subject Pass  
 1  
 2  
 3 
  4  
05. details on higher educational qualifications :
 5.1 Degree :–––––––––––.       
 5.2  University of Issue :–––––––––.
 5.3 Valid date of the degree :–––––––––.
 5.4 Major subject/s followed for the degree :––––––.
 5.5  Medium of the degree :–––––––––. 
06. 6.1  Value of the examination fee paid in Rupees  (in 
letters) :–––––––––.
 6.2   No. of the receipt :–––––––––.
 6.3   Issuing office :–––––––––. 
 6.4   date :–––––––––.   
Keep a copy of the paying voucher with you.
firmly paste the paying voucher from one side to here. 
i do state that the information furnished herewith are 
true to my knowledge and faith. i am aware that i will be 
subject to dismissal from service if revealed disqualified 
after been selected to this post. in addition, i state that i 
am abided by the rules and regulations enforced by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. No information 
furnished herewith will be changed later on. furthermore, 
i do state that i adhere to the rules and regulations enforced 
by the commissioner of Examinations in conducting of 
examination and issuance of results. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
7.0  Certification of Applicant’s Signature :
      i do hereby certify mr. / mrs. / miss. …… …………. 
Submitting this application is personally known to me, 
that he / she placed his / her signature before me , paid the 
relevant examination fee and pasted the relevant invoice 
herewith. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the 
 certifying officer of the signature.
date  :––––––––––.
Name in full of the certifying officer  :––––––––––.
designation   :––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––.
8.0  if the candidate is a Government employee, 
certification of the head of the Department :
i do forward the application of mr. / mrs. / miss. / 
................. herewith. this is to state that he/she is serving 
in this ministry/department as a permanent/temporary/ 
casual employee and he / she can be / cannot be released 
from service if selected to this post. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Head of the Department or authorized officer.
date :–––––––––––. 
designation :–––––––––––.            
ministry / department :–––––––––––.              
(Confirm with the official stamp)     
01–724                             

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2017
109
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
amENdmENt
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION AND hOmE AffAIRS
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Public management 
Assistants' Service - 2016
REViSioNS are made to, Sub-section (iii) and Sub-section (vi) of Paragraph 8.0 Eligibility, Section (c) of Paragraph 9.0 
applications, date to forward applications to the department Heads of Paragraph 10.0 of the Gazette notification "Limited 
competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade iii of Public management assistants' Service - 2016" published in 
the Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1998 dated 16th december, 2016 as per the decision of 
the Public Service commission. 
8.0 eligibility : 
 (iii) Shall have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in not less than six 
(06) subjects including Language/Literature and arithmetic/Pure mathematics/Elementary mathematics/
commercial arithmetic with credits passes for two subjects at not more than two sittings. 
 (vi) All qualifications prescribed for recruitment to the post shall be completed as at 13th February, 2017. 
9.0 Applications :
 (c) the application form must be completed correctly and legibly in the candidates own handwriting and sent by 
registered post to reach the,
  commissioner General of Examinations, 
  organization and foreign Examination Branch, 
  department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, 
  P. O. Box 1503,
  colombo.
  on or before 13.02.2017 the application closing date through the Heads of departments in which the 
candidates are serving. 
10.0 candidates are requested to forward their applications to the Heads of their departments well in advance enabling 
them to forward the applications to the commissioner General of Examinations on or before 13.02.2017.
 * the closing date will be extended up to 13th february, 2017 due to this amendment. 
 * The dates mentioned in the Sub-section 4.12 and part 3, 5, 7of the certificate of the Head of the Department of 
specimen application form, of the Gazette notification is revised as 13.02.2017 due to this amendment. 
 * the candidates who have already applied are hereby informed not to make fresh application in response to this 
revision. 
 * the other provisions laid down in the Gazette notification shall remain effective. 
 K. V . P. M. J. 
gamage, 
 director General of combined Service, 
 ministry of Public administration and  Home affairs.
ministry of Public administration and Home affairs, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07,
13th january, 2017. 
01-965