

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 157]
————————
Presented by Hon. Anura Sidney Jayarathne, M.P. for
Polonnaruwa District on 24th January, 2017
(Published in the Gazette on December 19, 2016)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10. 00
2-2d
2-
PALITHA  THEWARAPPERUMA  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Palitha Thewarapperuma Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Palitha Thewarapperuma Foundation
(Incorporation)
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  PALITHA THEWARAPPERUMA
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Board called and known as the “ Palitha
Thewarapperuma Foundation” has heretofore been
established for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the objects and matters
for which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for the public advantage to grant such
application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Palitha Thewarapperuma
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2017.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Palitha
Thewarapperuma Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members shall
be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the name
and style of “Palitha Thewarapperuma Foundation” and by
that name may sue and be sued in all Courts, with full power
and authority to have and use a common seal and alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to participate in social, cultural and economic
development of the country;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the Palitha
Thewarapperuma
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Palitha Thewarapperuma Foundation
(Incorporation)
PL 009974 Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation(G)
(b) to advise and assist all communities in Sri Lanka to
live in peace and harmony;
(c) to implement leadership programmes;
(d) to provide the houses, health facilities and drinking
water to the poor and needy people;
(e) to provide the necessary educational equipment
and facilities and facilities of the poor school
children for their advancement;
(f) to improve nutritional level of students, youths and
elders who are in the low income group and by
enhancing their sports skills to reach upto the
national level;
(g) to provide education and grant scholarships to assist
pre-school children;
(h) to establish centers to promote education, culture
and research;
(i) to assist affected people in disaster situations to
uplift their lifestyle and providing legal assistance
for needy vulnerable people when necessary;
(j) to grant scholarships to low income school children
to enable them to effectively continue their
education;
(k) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion and cast; and
(l) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 4 -->

3Palitha Thewarapperuma Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary
and another eleven members elected in accordance with
such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, shall be the
Chairman of the Board of Directors for life thereafter, and
the family members of the person who was holding office as
the Chairman shall become the next Chairman of the Board
of Directors.
(3) The first Board of  the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security, employ
and dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying
out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of members present and
voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Palitha Thewarapperuma Foundation
(Incorporation)
PL 009974 Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation(G)
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
(e) the administration and management of the porperty
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to  or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of  gifts,
bequests, donations,  subscriptions, contributions, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporatoin shall be deposited
to the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Palitha Thewarapperuma Foundation
(Incorporation)
9.    The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
lease, gift, testamentary disposition  or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10.    If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which,
is or are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members.
11. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and  audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
12.    The seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
5
10
15
20
25
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Property
remaining
after
dissolution.
30
Seal of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Palitha Thewarapperuma Foundation
(Incorporation)
PL 009974 Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation(G)
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate, or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
Incorporation
of the Palitha
Thewarapperuma
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Palitha Thewarapperuma Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .