

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING ,  SRI  LANKA
TO   BE   PURCHASED   AT   THE   GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU ,  COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 7.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February  06, 2009
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 05th February, 2009]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
RETIRED  SENIOR  POLICE  OFFICERS’
ASSOCIATION  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No.  3  OF  2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009
1
Short title.
Preamble.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
[Certified on 05th February, 2009]
L.D.—O. (Inc) 29/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  RETIRED  SENIOR  POLICE  OFFICERS ’
A SSOCIATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Retired
Senior Police officers’ Association” has heretofore been
established in Sri Lanka, for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters connected
with the said Association :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Retired Senior Police
Officers’ Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 3  of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association (hereinafter
referred to as the “Association” or “R.S.P.O.A”) or shall
hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to
as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the
name and style of the “Retired Senior Police Officers’
Association”, and by that name may sue and be sued with
full power and authority to have and use a common seal and
to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to foster a spirit of camaraderie and Esprit-de-Corps;
Incorporation
of the Retired
Senior Police
Officers’
Association.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009
(b) to afford Members an opportunity to meet together;
(c) to promote the welfare of its members, their  families
and that of other retired Police Officers and their
families, who are non-members of the Association;
(d) to assist the spouse of members, in organising the
“Ladies Wing” of the R. S. P. O. A.;
(e) to grant financial and other assistance where
possible, to its members and any other retired Police
Officers;
(f) to render to the country any service consistent with
the object of the Association;
(g) to help and assist the members when they are in
need of medical assistance;
(h) to collaborate with any other institution or
organization, whether foreign or local having
objects similar to those of the Corporation; and
(i) to do any act or thing generally essential to achieve
the above objectives.
4. (1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rules
of the Corporation, be administered by an Executive
Committee consisting of the President, two vice Presidents,
Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer,
not less than five committee members and two immediate
Past Presidents elected in accordance with such rules made
under section 6.
(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Executive Committee of
the Association holding office on the day immediatly
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009
3
General powers
of the
Corporation.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required for
the purposes of the Corporation;
(b) to borrow or raise money for the purposes of the
Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation, in such a manner as
the Executive Committee may think fit;
(e) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,
company or body of persons;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as
may be determined by the Corporation to execute
disciplinary action on them;
(g) to seek, receive or collect subscriptions, grants,
donations and gifts whether in cash or kind from
any person locally or foreign sources;
(h) to operate, open and close bank accounts and to
borrow or raise money with or without security; and
(i) to do all such other acts or things as may be necessary
or conducive to the carrying out of the objects of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any General Meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, for the following
matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members;
(b) the election of the members of the Executive
Committee, the resignation from or vacation of or
removal from office and their powers, conduct and
duties;
(c) the powers, conduct and duties and functions of the
various officers, agents, servants of the Corporation,
their appointments, the resignation from or vacation
of and removal from office;
(d) the procedure to be observed at the summoning and
holding of meeting of the Executive Committee,
the times, places, notices and agenda of such
meetings and the quorum thereof and the conduct
of business thereat;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation the custody of its funds; and
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in like manner, as a rule at a
like meeting and in like manner as a rule made under
subsection (1).
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009
5
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation, made under this
section.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
testamentary disposition, donations, subscriptions,
contributions and fees shall be deposited in the name of the
Corporation in one or more State Banks as may be decided
by the Executive Committee.
(2) The Corporation may create any depreciation fund,
reserve or sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,
development and improvement of the property of the
Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneys
to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act.
(4) The moneys and property of the Corporation, however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects set-forth herein and no portion thereof shall be paid
or transferred, directly or indirectly, by way of dividend, bonus
or otherwise however to the members of the Corporation.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold subject to any express trust or otherwise,
any property movable or immovable which may become
vested in it by virture of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 6 with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, grant, convey,
devise, assign or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of all money received and expended by the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Auditing.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
income, expenditure and the balance sheet shall be certified
by a qualified auditor or auditors appointed by the
Corporation.
(3) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(ii) a firm of Chartered Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Association on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall be
paid to the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts due
to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the Association
on the day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of  all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to institution or institutions having
objects similar to the objects of the Corporation and which is
or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property, among the members of the such
institution or institutions and at the discretion of the
Executive Committee of the Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Association.
Remains on
dissolution of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009
7
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of
President and the Secretary or such other person duly
authorized by the Executive Committee who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or any body corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Retired Senior Police Officers’ Association
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMA TION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.