

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1945
1945
wxl 1"882 - 2014 iema;eïn¾ ui 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'09'26
No. 1,882 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1948
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1954
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th October, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd
October, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Part III of the Gazette No. 1,881 of 19.09.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1946
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1947
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1948
Posts – Vacant
DEPARTMENT  OF  NATIONAL  ARCHIVES
Applications for the Post of Gold Guilder
APPLICATIONS are called from the persons who possess the
following qualifications for the post of gold guilder at the Department
of National Archives.
01. Qualifications for recruitment :
1.1 Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
1.2 Must have an excellent character.
1.3 The applicant should not be less than eighteen (18)
years and not more than forty five (45) years of age at
the closing date of this application. (The minimum age
limit does not apply to those who are already in the
Public Service).
1.4 Educational Qualifications :
Must have passed six subjects (06) with at least two
credit passes (one credit should be for science) at the
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination, not more than
in two sittings.
1.5 Professional Qualifications :
Must have gained at least the skill of second level of the
National V ocational Qualifications (N. V . Q.) as decided
by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission
relevant to printing.
1.6 Every applicant should have mental and physical fitness
required to work within any area of Sri Lanka.
1.7 All the qualifications required to be recruited to this
post should be completed by the 24th day of October,
2014 as required by this application.
02. Conditions of Service :
2.1 Salary Code.– PL-2-2006A.
Salary Scale.– Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -10x145 - 10x160 -
12x170 - Rs. 18,600. (Recruitments will be done to the
first step of the above salary scale).
2.2 This post is permanent and pensionable.
2.3 Those who are recruited should be ready to work
anywhere in the island.
03. Method of Recruitment. – The applicants fulfill the above
requirements are recruited after a professional test and structured
interview.
3.1 Professional Test :
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Testing the knowledge 100 40%
relevant to the field
Marks will be given for the knowledge in printing methods,
usage of old and modern equipment, knowledge in
temperature control when using diverse material and the
knowledge in using documents without harming the safety
of them.
3.2 The qualifications will also be examined at the structured
interview itself.
Among the applicants who get pass marks at the
professional test, twice the number of existing vacancies
will be called for the structured interview and on the
performance at the interview, a number similar to the
existing vacancies.
04. Attestation of the applications.– The applications should be
attested by a priest in charge of a place of worship, a justice of
peace, government principal or public officer drawing an annual
basic salary not less than Rs. 240,360.
05. The method of sending applications .– The duly perfected
application in accordance with the specimen application attached
herein, written “Application for the Post of Gold Guilder” at the
top left hand corner of the application, should be send to reach the
address, “Director, Department of National Archives, No. 07, Phillip
Gunawardena Mawatha, Colombo 07” on or before 24.10.2014.
Dr. S
AROJA WETTASINGHE,
Director of National Archives.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
THE APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF GOLD GUILDER AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF NA TIONAL ARCHIVES
(For official use only)
01. Name with initials :––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Address :
(i) Private Address :––––––––––.
(ii) Of ficial Address :––––––––––.
04. Telephone No. :
(i) Personal Telephone No. :––––––––––.
(ii) Of ficial Telephone No. :––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1949
05. Date of birth :––––––––––.
Age at 24.10.2014 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––. Days :–––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
07. Male/Female :––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination :
First Sitting :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Medium :––––––––––.
Subjects passed Grade
01. ..................................... ..............................
02. ..................................... ..............................
03. ..................................... ..............................
04. ..................................... ..............................
05. ..................................... ..............................
06. ..................................... ..............................
07. ..................................... ..............................
08. ..................................... ..............................
09. ..................................... ..............................
10. ..................................... ..............................
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Second sitting :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Medium :––––––––––.
Subjects passed Grade
01. ..................................... ..............................
02. ..................................... ..............................
03. ..................................... ..............................
04. ..................................... ..............................
05. ..................................... ..............................
06. ..................................... ..............................
07. ..................................... ..............................
08. ..................................... ..............................
09. ..................................... ..............................
10. ............... ...................... ..............................
09. V ocational Courses :––––––––––.
Course Institution Subjects Results
N. B.– Copies of all the certificates should be attached.
10. This part will apply only to those in State Service :
(i) Designation and Grade :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date of appointment :–––––––––––.
(iii) Organization :–––––––––––.
Applicant's Declaration/Certification :
I, do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in the
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect. I am liable to
disqualification if detected before selection or discontinuance after
selection.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant's signature (Delete whichever inapplicable):
I, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................... who is submitting
this application is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on this .................. day of
....................... 2014.
Signature of Attester :–––––––––––.
Full Name of Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– The attestation should be made by a person referred to
in paragraph 04 of Gazette Notification.
Certification of the Head of Department/Institute :
I, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who is
submitting this application is an employee of this Ministry/
Department/Board/Corporation. In the event of his/her selection
for the above post he/she can be released.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Head of Department :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address of the Department :–––––––––––.
09–909

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1950
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF VETERINARY
SURGEON GRADE III OF SRI LANKA ANIMAL
PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE PERTAINING TO
SETTING UP OF REGIONAL ANIMAL PRODUCTION
AND HEALTH UNITS TO STRENGTHEN THE SYSTEM OF
SUPPLY OF SERVICES WITH A VIEW TO EXPENDITING
THE LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT IN SRI LANKA
APPLICATIONS are invited, on the direction by the Public Service
Commission, from Bachelors of Veterinary Medicine to select
qualified persons to be appointed to 114 (One Hundred and
Fourteen) posts of Veterinary Surgeon Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health Service under the steering project of
establishing regional animal production and health units in order to
strengthen the system of supply of services with a view to expediting
the livestock development in Sri Lanka. Applications prepared in
the specimen form at the end of this notification should be sent by
registered post to reach the Director General, Department of Animal
Production and Health, P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya on or
before the date under mentioned. “The Post of Veterinary Surgeon
Grade III of Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service
”
should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
(A) The last date for calling applications will be 17.10.2014.
Note :
* Any complaint to the effect of loss or delay of an
application or a related letter at the post can not be
considered. Applicants should bear the losses and
damages that may be caused by delaying the
applications up to the last date. Applications made by
the applicants not fulfilling the basic qualifications will
be rejected.
* Attachment of the recruited officers to the Northern,
Eastern, North Central, Uva and Central Provinces will
be made by the Secretary of the Ministry of Livestock
and Rural Community Development.
1. Method of Recruitment to the Service :
(i) Recruitment to the vacancies existing in the posts of
Veterinary Surgeon will be made on the merit list
pubilshed by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the
University of Peradeniya. The applicants getting
Veterinary Medicine qualifications from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission will
be listed at the end of the merit list in order of their date
of registration pertaining to the year of completion of
the qualifications required for registration in the
Veterinary Council of Sri Lanka.
(ii) A number equal to one hundred and ten percent 110% of
the number of vacancies will be called for the interviews
and a number equal to the number of vacancies will be
recruited in keeping with the order in the merit list. No
marks will be given for the interview.
(iii) The number to be appointed and the effective date of
such appointment will be decided on the direction of the
Public Service Commission.
2. Conditions for Engagement in Service :
(i) This post will be permanent and pensionable. Those
who are selected should contribute to the Widows/
Widowers and Orphans Pensions Fund.
(ii) The selected candidates will be appointed to fill a
vacancy in a scheduled post in Sri Lanka Animal
Production and Health Service to which they have
applied.
(iii) Provisions of the Public Administration Circular 01/2014
of 21.01.2014 and the provisions of its subsequent
circulars. You should prove that you have acquired the
official language proficiency in keeping with the
government policies before expiry of five years from the
date on which you assume duties in this post. Further, if
you have fulfilled qualifications required for this post in
English language, you should fulfill the proficiency in
one of the languages of Sinhala or Tamil as the official
language as you wish within the period of probation, i. e.
within 03 years from the date of appointment to the
post and the proficiency in the other official language
within 05 years of the date of appointment to the post.
(iv) Other terms and conditions of the service. This
appointment will be subject to the terms of the Service
Minute of Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health
Service published in the Government Gazette No.
1,840/51 of 13.12.2013 and the amendments made to it
from time to time, to the Procedural Rules of the Public
Service Commission, to the Establishments Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to the
Financial Regulations of the Government and to other
Departmental Regulations.
3. Salary Scale.– The monthly salary applicable to this post is
Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 -8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555. (Salary Scale
SL-1-2006 of the P. A. C. No. 6/2006 of 25.04.2006).
4. Educational Qualifications.– A degree in Veterinary Medicine
obtained from a University recognized by the University Grants
Commission.
5. Age limit.– Should not be below 21 years of age and above the
maximum age limit of 35 by the closing date of receiving applications.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1951
6. Physical Qualifications :
(i) Every applicant must be ready to serve in any area in Sri
Lanka ; and
(ii) Must be of adequate physical and mental fitness to
perform duties in the post and sound physical health
should be testified by a medical diagnostic report.
7. Other Qualifications :
(i) The applicants must be Citizens of Sri Lanka.
(ii) The applicants should have an excellent character.
(iii) The effective date of the Degree of Veterinary Medicine
should be 31.12.2013 or a date previous to that date and
the applicants must have registered in the Veterinary
Council of Sri Lanka.
(iv) They should have fulfilled all qualifications required for
recruitment to the post by the closing date of calling
applications.
8. The interview :
8.1 General Interview : (No marks will be given)
Objectives to be met : checking whether the qualifications
specified in the Scheme of Recruitment and the
notification published in accordance with it have been
acquired and testing the physical fitness.
9. Method of Application :
(i) The application should be prepared in the form given in
the specimen application by using both sides of the A4
paper of 22-29cm size.
(ii) The originals of the following certificates should be
presented once it is called for the interview :
(a) Birth Certificate.
(b) Degree certificate and other relevant certificates.
(c) Two certificates of character received recently (one
out of which should be a certificate received from
the Grama Niladhari in the area and certified by the
Divisional Secretary).
(d) Certificates of the highest examinations passed in
Sinhala/Tamil and English languages.
(e) Certificate of registration as a Veterinarian in the
Veterinary Council of Sri Lanka.
10. Other Provisions  :
(i) The Public Service Commission reserves the authority
to take decisions on the matters not set out in this Gazette
Notification.
(ii) The Public Service Commission reserves the right of
taking the final decision on filling of vacancies, not filling
them or filling only a part of them.
(iii) The Sinhala text should prevail in case of any
inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English
texts of this Gazette Notification.
(iv) The candidature of any candidate revealed to possess no
qualifications will be cancelled.
(v) If it is revealed that any of the particulars a candidate
has furnished is false and has been furnished deliberately
knowing it is false, or else he has deliberately suppressed
any important fact, he/she may be liable to be dismissed
from service.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
H. L. T
HISSERA,
Secretary (Acting).
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
No. 45, St. Michael's Road,
Colombo 03.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
APPLICA TION FOR RECRUITMENT FOR THE V ACANCIES IN THE POST OF VETERINARY SURGEON GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA
ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE
(For office use)
01. (i) Name with initials :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
In English (Block capitals) :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1952
(ii) Names denoted by the initials (in English block capitals) :
02. National Identity Card No. :
03. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
(Any change of the address should be intimated without delay)
04. (i) Provincial Council :–––––––––––.
(ii) District of the permanent residence :–––––––––––.
05. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––.
Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––.
06. (a) Whether you are a Sri Lankan :–––––––––––.
(b) Nationality (Sinhalese/Sri Lankan Tamil/Indian Tamil/Muslim/Other) :–––––––––––.
07. (a) Gender :–––––––––––.
(b) Whether married/single or widowed :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
Qualification of Degree/Postgraduate Degree passed Class University Date of Completion of the Degree
1.
2.
3.
09. Number and date of registration at the Veterinary Council of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
10. Particulars of service (If holding a permanent post at present) :–––––––––––.
Present Post Period  of  Service Service Station Department/Provincial Council
From                      To
1.
2.
3.
11. I, do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I know that I will be d isqualified if
any particulars indicated here are detected false or incorrect before the selection and I will be subject to dismissal from the  service
without any compensation if detected after the appointment. I also certify signing below that I have not been convicted of any
criminal offence by any Court of Law.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Applicable only to the applicants holding a permanent post of the Government)
Certificate of the Head of the Department/Establishment :
I certify that the above applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... is an officer of this Department/......... ........................
Provincial Council holding a post of .................................. and that the particulars mentioned in the application are correct according to his/

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1953
her personal file. I also inform that he/she can/cannot be released from thsi Department/from the Provincial Public Service if this officer is
selected to this post. (cut off inapplicable words.)
–––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department/Establishment.
(Official Stamp)
Date :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
09–1043
––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
MATARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th October, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
10th September, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matara W elipitiya Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Maduragoda Area General, District Secretariat,
Matara.
09–1181

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1954
Town Town No.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  REHABILITATION  AND
PRISON  REFORMS
Department of Prisons
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF JAILOR, CLASS II AND
REHABILITATION OFFICER, CLASS II IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF PRISONS, SRI LANKA - 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from Citizens of Sri Lanka
with the qualification stipulated hereunder, for the Post of Jailor
(Male/Female), Class II and Rehabilitation Officer (Male), Class II
now vacant in the Department of Prisons.
1. This examination will recruit to the Post of Jailor (Male/Female),
Class II and the Rehabilitation Officer (Male), Class II of the
Department of Prisons.
2. Written Examination.– This examination will consist of three
question papers as following :-
(i) Intelligent Test
(ii) General Test
(iii) Mathematic plus addition.
03. Date of Examination and holding of Examination .–
Examination shall be held in January, 2015 in Main Towns throughout
the Island mentioned in the schedule 1 hereto. The Number and
Town in the schedule in which the applicant wishes to sit for the
examination, should be indicated clearly. Changes will not be allowed
later with regard to the requested Town. If there are not adequate
number of applicants to establish an examination centre, they will be
directed to examination centre closer to their preference town of
their second choice or town nearby. If adequate number of applicants
have not applied to establish examination centers in all proposed
towns or majority of towns, action will be taken by Commissioner
General of Examinations to hold the examination only in Colombo.
SCHEDULE - 1
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Mathale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwara-Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullativu 12
Vavuniya 13
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Monaragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Kilinochchi 25
03. Number of persons to be appointed is 143. Post of Jailor
(Male), Class II-116 and female (12), and Rehabilitation Officer,
Class II (15). At the instances where there are candidates, who have
secured equal marks for final vacancy or final few vacancies, above
the number of vacancies, the decision of filling such vacancies shall
be taken by the Public Service Commission as per Section 80 of
Procedural Rules. The effective date of the appointment shall be
determined on the order of the Commissioner General of Prisons.
04. Conditions of Service :
4.1 A selected candidate shall be appointed to Grade II of
the Service on the General Conditions governing
appointments in the Public Service, Provisions of
Financial Regulations and Establishment Code,
Procedural Rule of Public Service Commission published
in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1,589/30 and dated
20th February, 2009.
4.2 This post is permanent, pensionable and shall
contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension
Scheme/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
4.3 This appointment is subject to probationary period of
three years. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be
passed within three years fromt he date of recruitment
to Grade 11 and Second Efficiency Bar Examination
within 7 years from the date of recruitment.
4.4 Prescribed language proficiency shall be obtained as
mentioned in Public Administration Circular
No. 01/2014 and its related circulars.
4.5 Commissioner General of Prisons reserves the power
to cancel the appointments of any candidate who fails
to assume duties of the appointed post on due date

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1955
and/or rejects or avoids serving in an area where she/he
is appointed. Officers appointed as Jailor, Class II/
Rehabilitation Officer, Class II, should agree to stay in
bachelor quarters in prisons away from home town
during first five years of appointment.
05. Monthly Salary Scale.– RS. 2-2006A (step 1) salary segment
of Pubilc Administration Circular 06/2006(IV) is applied and salary
scale belonged to this segment is as following :-
Rs. 15,850 -7x180 - 2x240 - 8x320 - 17x375 - Rs. 26,525 (monthly).
06. Qualifications for Recruitment :-
(a) (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Shall have a excellent moral character.
(iii) Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any
part of the Island.
(iv) Minimum height of 05 feet 04 inches.
(v) Should have a chest measurement of 32 inches deflated
(does not apply to female candidates).
(vi) Only male citizens can apply for the Post of
Rehabilitation Officer.
(vii) Conviction by any Court of Law for any offence
relating to immoral, character is a disqualification for
appointment to the above post.
(b) Educational Qualifications :-
Should have passed all subjects at once in General
Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination
(except Common General Test) or passed three subjects
at once under old syllabus ;
and
Should have passed the General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination in not more than two
sittings in 06 subjects including four credit passes for
four subjects including Sinhala/Tamil and Arithmetic/
Mathematics/Business Arithmetic. (Should have passed
not less than five subjects in one sitting) ;
or
Should have passed the National Ordinary Certificate of
Education Examination in not more than two sittings, in
06 subjects with four “B” passes for four subjects
including First Language and Mathematics (Should have
passed not less than five subjects in one sitting) ;
or
Should have passed the General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination in not more than two
sittings in six subjects with four credit passes for four
subjects including Language and Mathematics (Should
have passed not less than five subject in one sitting).
(c) Other Qualifications.– A Diploma in Professional Social
Work from the Sri Lanka Social Development Institute
would be considered as an additional qualification in
recruiting to the Post of Rehabilitation Officer, Class II.
(d) Age :
* Jailor, Class II - shall not be less than 18 years and not
more than 45 years (age limit is not applied to person
who are already in Public Service/Provincial Public
Service).
* Rehabilitation Officer, Class II - shall not be less than
24 years and not more than 45 years (age limit is not
applied to person who are already in Public Service/
Provincial Public Service).
(e) Restrictions regarding qualifications. – Requisite
qualifications for this examination shall have been
completed in every aspect by on or before the
application closing date.
07. Examination Fees.– The examination fee is Rs. 500 (Five
Hundred). It should be paid before the closing date of applications at
any Divisional Secretariat or District Secretariat to be credited to
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations.
Receipt taken for your name from Divisional Secretariat/District
Secretariat should be attached to the relevant cage of the application.
Examination fee is non-refundable for any reason. It is advisable to
keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
08. Application Procedure :
8.1 Application should be in the form of specimen
appended to this notification and should be completed
by the candidate himself on paper size 8 27"x11.69"
(A-4) using both sides. Computerized and typed
setting applications could be used as well. Cages 01 to
04 should be on the first page and cages 05 to 10
should be on the second page and the remaining cages
should be on the 3rd page of the application. Relevant
details should be clearly indicated in own hand writing.
Applications not conforming to the specimen
application form and incomplete application will be
rejected without any notice. A photocopy of the
application should be retained for future reference.
Further the candidate should check whether the
completed application form conforms to the specimen
application in examination notice. If not, application
will be rejected.
8.2 Application should be in medium that applicant wish
to sit for the examination.
8.3 The completed application form for examination
should be sent under registered cover to reach the
“Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, Post Box 1503, Colombo” on or before
27th October, 2014. “Open Competitive Examination
for Recruitment to the Post of Jailor, Class II and

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1956
Rehabilitation Officer, Class II - 2014” should be
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application. when preparing the
application, the name of the examination mentioned in
the heading, in Sinhala applications, should be typed
in English in addition to in Sinhala and in Tamil
applications should be typed in English in addition to
Tamil. If male applicants are going to apply for both
positions, they could apply in one application.
8.4 The Commissioner General of Examinations will
permit all the candidates who have paid the relevant
examination fee and forwarded the application on or
before the closing date to sit for the competitive
examination on the presumption that only those who
have qualified the qualifications mentioned in the
Gazette notification have applied. The issue of an
admission card to sit for the competitive examination
shall not be treated as acceptance that a candidate has
fulfilled the necessary qualification for this post. When
calling for a interview, if qualifications of a certain
candidates as per the Gazette notification is found to
be ineligible, his/her candidature will be cancelled.
8.5 The signature of the candidate should be attested by a
Principal of a Government School, a Justice of the
Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, a Notary Public, a
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, an Officer
holding a Gazette post in the Police Service or an officer
holding a permanent post in government with an annual
salary of Rs. 240,360 or above, or in case of an officer
in Pubilc/Provincial Service by the Head of the relevant
institution. Officers who are already in Public Service,
should forward his/her application through his/her
Head of Department to reach the Commissioner of
Examinations before closing date. If such an officer is
selected, the Head of Department should confirm that
he/she could be released from existing service.
8.6 Applications not duly filled and paid examination fee
on due date, will be rejected without notification. Loss
incurred not completing the application in a proper
way must be borne by applicants. No complain will
be taken into consideration in relation to loosing an
application in posting or being late.
8.7 Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged.
Soon after issuing admissions to applicants, the
Department of Examinations will publish a newspaper
advertisement. If the admission card is not received
even after 2 or 3 days of publishing the newspaper
advertisement, it should be informed the Department
of Examinations in a way of Gazette notice explains.
There, your full name, address, National Identity Card
Number and the name of the examination applied
should be mentioned. If you are an applicant away
from Colombo, it is advisable to inquire by forwarding
a letter of your details and your Fax Number that is
necessary to send a copy of the admission by fax
stated in the advertisement. further, it would be
advisable to keep a copy of application, copy of receipt
relevant to payment of examination fee and the receipt
of registration of the application to prove any
information requested by the Department of
Examinations.
09. Admission to the Examination.– A candidate must sit in the
examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate must get his
signature attested in advance and hand over the admission card to the
Supervisor on the first day he presents himself for the examination.
A candidate without an admission card is not permitted to enter the
examination hall. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates has
been published at the beginning of Gazette. Candidates are subjected
to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on conducting the examination and they are liable to be
subjected to a punishment imposed by him/her for breach of these
rules.
10. Identity of Candidates.– A candidate shall be required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the
following documents shall be accepted :–
(a) A National Identification Card issued by the
Department of Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– Accurate information
should be furnished carefully in filling the application. If a candidate
is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that
a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that they are
false, or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he shall be
liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
12. Method and Medium of Examination :
(a) Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages.
(b) A candidate is not permitted to amend the medium of
examination.
13. Method of Recruitment :
* Written Examination :
A written examination will be held in three papers consist
of subjects mentioned below. At least 40% for each subject
must be taken in order to pass the Examination. Candidates
are required to sit for all papers.
* Structured Interview :
(i) A structured interview will be held in order to confirm
that qualifications mentioned in No. 6 have been
accomplished and accorded with limitation of
quailfications.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1957
(ii) Names of candidates who secure not less than 40%
for each subject in written examination, will be arranged
in alphabetical order and number of five times the
existing vacancies will be called for an interview. The
interview date is going to be notified by the
Commissioner General of Prisons.
(N. B.– Opportunity given to a candidate for appearing for
the interview does not necessarily mean that the candidate
has possessed qualifications to be awarded an
appointment).
14. Syllabus of the Written Examination :
(a) Intelligent Test :
Duration 1 hour 100 marks. Consists of questions to
determine the candidate’s ability of logical reasoning,
analytical thinking and decision making. This paper
consists of 50 multiple choice questions and questions
for short answers. All questions should be answered.
(b) General Intelligence :
Duration 1 hour 100 marks. General Paper to assess
the candidate’s intelligence on information technology,
surroundings of the candidate including political, Social,
Cultural and economical situations of Sri Lanka,
important facts about local and international arena, as
well as scientific and technological development. This
paper consists of 50 multiple choice questions and
questions for short answers. All questions should be
answered.
(c) Mathematic Plus Addition .– Duration 1 hour, 100
marks.
Part 1 - This question paper is designed to test the
accuracy of adding. All questions should be
answered on the paper itself.
Part 2 - This question paper consists of compulsory
06 questions of assessing calculation skills.
15. Appointment Authority reserves the right to refrain from
filling some or all vacancies.
16. Any matter not mentioned here will be decided by the
Commissioner General of Prisons. All candidates are obliged to follow
Examination Rules and Regulations mentioned in the Gazette
notification.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
C
HANDRARATHNA PALLEGAMA,
Commissioner General of Prisons.
Prison Headquarters,
No. 150, Baseline Road,
Colombo 08,
On 10th September, 2014.
(For office use only)
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICA TION
Y%S ,xld nkaOkd.dr fomd¾;fïka;=fõ II jk fm< fÊ,¾jreka yd
II jk fm< mqkre;a:dmk ks,OdÍka n|jd .ekSu i|yd jk újD;
;r. úNd.h - 2014
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF JAILORS,
CLASS II AND REHABILITATION OFFICERS, CLASS II IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
PRISONS IN SRI LANKA - 2014
Town Town No.
1st Choice
2nd Choice
(Indicate the Town and Town No. in which the appilcant wishes to
sit for the examination as per 2nd para. of the Gazette Notification)
Post applied for :
Jailor, Class II (males) - 1
Welfare Officer, Class II (male) - 2
For both posts (only males) - 3
Jailor, Class II (females) - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Changes will not be allowed later)
01. ( a) Name with Initials :––––––––––––.
(in English block letters) Ex. : SILV A, A. B.
(b) Name in full :––––––––––––.
(in English block letters)
(c) Name in full :––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
02. (a) Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
(b) Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(in English block letters)
(Admission card will be sent to this address)
03. Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1958
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Whether married or single :
Single - 1
Married - 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
06. Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
07. Age as at the closing date of applications (27.10.2014) :
Years : Months : Days :
08. Citizenship (by descent/registration) :––––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) :
(i) Year of the Examination :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination :
Subject Grade
G . C. E. (O/L) :
(i) Year of the Examination :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination :
Subject Grade
G . C. E. (A/L) :
(i) Year of the Examination :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination :
Subject Grade
10. Other Qualifications :––––––––––––.
11. Have you ever been convicted by a court of any offence (If so
give particulars) :––––––––––––.
12. Particulars of the receipt for payment of examination fees :
(1) Amount paid :––––––––––––.
(2) Office at which examination fee was paid :––––––––––––.
(3) Date paid :––––––––––––.
(4) Number of the receipt :––––––––––––.
Paste the one edge of the receipt here securely.
(It would be advisable to keep a photography with the candidate)
13. Certificate of the Applicant :
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of
my knowledge and belief and that, I have affixed the receipt No.
.................. dated ........................ being the payment of the examination
fee. I also agree to be bound by the ruels governing the examination
and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior
to, during or after the examination, it found that I am ineligible
according to the regulations of this examination. Further, I agree to be
bound by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner General
of Examinations as conducting of the exam.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
14. Attestation of the Applicant's Signature : (Para 8.5 of the Gazette
Notification) :
I hereby certify that, Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ (Full
name) is personally, known to me and he/she has placed his/her
signature in my presence on ........................... and that he/she has

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.09.2014
1959
paid the prescribed examination fee and the said receipt is affixed
hereto.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Full Name of the Attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Official Seal should be placed)
15. Certificate of the Head fo the Department/Institution :
I declare that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... is
an employee of this Department/Institution. His/her work and
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
conduct are satisfactory and that he/she is qualified to apply for this
post as per the Gazette Notification and that he/she can be released/
cannot be released from service if selected for the post. (cut of
unnecessary words).
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department/
Institution.
Name :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Official seal should be placed)
09–907