

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by  Hon. Abdullah Mahrooff M.P. for Trincomalee District
on 22nd October, 2015
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 13]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on September 28, 2015)
COUNCIL OF MUSLIMS OF SRI LANKA
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka

<!-- page 2 -->

Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) 1
Short title.
2 —PL 009248 —300 (09/2015)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Preamble.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE COUNCIL OF MUSLIMS OF SRI LANKA
WHEREAS an umbrella non political organization called
and known as the Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka founded
in 1983 by Respected leader of the Muslim community and
the country Sir Razik Fareed, Dr. Badiudin Mahamud, Dr. M.
C. M. Kaleel, A. Aziz, Sir A. W. M. Ameer, M. H. M. Ashraff
and leading leaders among the living today has heretobefore
been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of promoting socio-
economic, cultural, educational and political advancement
in the Muslim community and co-ordinate the activities of
the Muslim Organizations in Sri Lanka and consolidate and
channel the resources to foster peace and harmony among
peoples and achieve national unity :
AND WHEREAS the said Organization has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated as it is for the public advantage to grant such
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Council of Muslims of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act, the
members of the Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka (hereinafter
referred to as the “Council”) and their successors, elected or
appointed in accordance with the rules made hereunder, shall
be and are hereby constituted a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual succession,
under the name and style of the Council of Muslims of Sri
Lanka and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts,
with full power and authority to have and use a common seal
and the alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Organization.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to provide for the co-ordination of the activities of
the various Muslim organizations in the country;
(b) to consolidate available talents and the resources of
the Muslim community in order to foster peace and
friendship among all peoples;
(c) to promote national unity, communal harmony
among all peoples;
(d) to provide maximum benefit to the community in
particular and the Country in general;
(e) to study and assess the problems facing the
community in all spheres of life and to find
appropriate solutions to such problems.
(f) to provide forum for the voice of the Muslims of Sri
Lanka and to ensure proper representation of the
Muslims in national forum ; and
(g) to serve as a co-ordinating centre for all Muslim
Organizations, to plan and undertake any other
activities which are necessary in the interest of the
Muslim Community.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to perform and execute all such acts, matters and
things whatsoever as are necessary or expedient for
the promotion or furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation;
(b) the power to open, operate and close, bank accounts,
to borrow or raise money with or without security;
General
objects of the
Corporation.
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) 3
 
5
10
15
20
25
(c) to receive or collect grants and donations from local
or foreign sources;
(d) to invest the funds of the Corporation, to construct
any building on any land vested in or acquired or
held by the Corporation;
(e) to appoint, employ and dismiss or terminate the
services of such officers and servants as are required
for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation;
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or body of persons;
(g) to perform and executive all other matters and things
as are necessary or expedient for the attainment of
the objects of the Corporation;
5. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of this Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vest in a Governing Council (hereinafter referred to as “the
Board of Governors”) consisting of the office bearers and
such other persons as may be provided for in such rules and
elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Board of Governors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Council of the association
whose names appear in the schedule to this Act.
(3) It shall be lawful for the Board by two third majority of
votes to co-opt any prominent member of the Corporation to
the Board of Governors and subject to the Rules of the
Corporation fill any vacancy that any arise by death,
resignation or removal of any member of the Board of
Governors.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(4) The office bearers namely President, Vice President,
Secretary General, Asst. Secretary General, Treasurer and Asst.
Treasurer shall be elected by the Board of Governors.
6. (a) The membership shall be decided by invitation
and decisions of the Governing Council.
(b) A member may cease to be decided a member upon
death or resignation or decision of the governing Council.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Board of Governors to
recommend from time to time and approved by the Corporation
at any general meeting of the members and by the votes of not
less than two third of the members present and voting, to make
such rules, as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, for the management of the affairs
of the Corporation and accomplishment of its objects. Such
rules when made may at a like meeting and in like manner be
altered, added to, amended or rescinded.
(2) The rules of the Council in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act, shall be deemed to be the rules of the Corporation made
under this section insofar as they are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or any other written law.
(3) The members of the council shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Council existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this act
shall be paid by the Corporation and debts due to and
subscriptions and contributions payable to the Council on
such day shall be paid to the Corporation for purposes of this
Act.
9. The Corporation shall, subject to the rules of the
Corporation, be able and capable in law to take and hold any
property movable or immovable, which may become vested
Register of
members.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Council.
Property of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) 5
5
10
15
20
25
30
in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject
to the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation
with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.
10. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
money heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one
or more banks as the Corporation shall determine.
11. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of all the money received and expended by the
Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least ones in every year and the correctness of
income and expenditure account and balance sheet certified
by the auditor or auditors who shall be the associate members
of the Institute of Accountants of Sri Lanka appointed by the
Corporation.
12. The Board of Governors shall have the power to
appoint any committee and to take such other steps as may
be found necessary, from time to time, for the maintenance of
professional standards and discipline among its members.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules of the
Corporation, who shall sign their names on the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act, contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and claiming by, from or under them.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.
Appointment
of committee.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Savings of
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
SCHEDULE
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Alhaj A. H. G. Ameen L.L.B., L.L.M., J.P.U.M.
Alhaj A. C. M. Shafeek J. P. B. Sc., FIMI. MIRTE (UK)
CAE, FIAE (SL)
Alhaj Habeebullah Ba - Falul
Dr. Hamid Mohamed Mauroof M.B.B.S.
Dr. Mohamed Anees
Alhaj M. D. M. Wazeer J. P.
Mr. M. H. M. Niyas
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) 7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS
HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.