

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.02.2008
215
215
wxl 1"539 _ 2008 fmnrjdß 29 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008’02’29
No. 1,539 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 218
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 220
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th March 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 22nd February, 2008.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- (i) Sriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha Kendraya (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 18th, 2008
 (ii) Economic Service Charge (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 25th, 2008
(iii) Stamp Duty (Special Provision) (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 25th, 2008
N. B._ Part III of the Gazette No. 1,538 of 22.02.2008 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.02.2008
216
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.02.2008
217
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.02.2008
218
Posts - Vacant
ATTORNEY   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Temporary Acting State Counsel
APPLICATIONS are invited for the above post. Application forms
can be obtained from the Office of the Attorney-General’s Department
Colombo 12 for this purpose.
(a) Salary Scale.– Rs. 28,095 (per month fixed).
(b) Educational and Other Qualifications.– Should be an Attorney-
at-Law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka.
(c) Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made by calling
for applications and upon the recommendations made at the interview
in accordance with the marking scheme approved by the Public
Services Commission. Eligible candidates will be selected at the
interview after considering the qualifications, performance, experience
and the abilities of the candidates in the relevant field.
(d) Terms of engagement.– This post is not permanent and is
non-pensionable.
Applications should reach Attorney General’s Department before
4.00 p. m. on 24th March, 2008.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
S
UHADA  K. GAMALATH ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms.
11th February, 2008.
02–850
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Technical Education Development Project [2197-SRI (SF)]
APPLICATIONS are called for the following posts in the Technical
Education Development Project which is Asian Development Bank
(ADB) funded and which is under the Ministry of Vocational and
Technical Training.
01. Project Director.- 01 Post
Duties & Responsibilities :
1. Efficiently manage the PIU with proper delegation of
responsibilities to the PIU Staff, co-ordination and
supervision of their activities and appraise performance.
2. Prepare annual and 5 years project implementation and
disbrsement plans with clearly defined responsibilities
for project activities.
3. Implement the project with due diligence to achieve the
agreed development objectives and in conformity with
the Loan/Grant Agreement.
4. Effectively organize, co-ordinate and monitor the
implementation of project activities.
5. Attend  project procurement matters as specified in the
Government Procurement Guidelines.
6. Ensure preparation of annual budget estimates submit
to the relevant authorities in time.
7. Maintain an appropriate financial management system
that will produce monthly/quartely/annual financial
statements in compliance with the Government
Accounting Standards and procedures.
8. Ensure timely withdrawal/reimnursement of funds from
the foreign financing agency for project expenditure.
9. Fulfill audit requirement of the Loan/Grant Agreement.
10. Fulfill audit requirements of the MInistry and the
Government.
11. Identify problems promptly as they arise during
implementation and take timely remedial actions.
12. Submit project progress and other reports through
monitoring & Evaluation as required by the Loan/Grant
Agreement and as requested by higher authorities.
13. Establish and maintain close and cordial relationships
with the Foreign Financing Agency and other
stakeholders pertaining to the implementation of the
project.
14. Any other work assigned by the Secretary of the line
Ministry from time to time.
Qualifications & Experience required :
Bachelors Degree in the field of Engineering Science, Law,
Economics, Commerce, Agriculture Business
Administration/Management, Accounting or any other
relevant field ; with
Minimum of 12 years experience of which 5 years should be
in Senior Managerial level ; or
Bachelor's Degree or any other qualification recognized as
equivalent ; and
a Postgraduate Qualification  (Masters/Diploma) in the
relevant field or Corporate Membership of a recognized
professional institution in the relevant field ; with
Minimum of 10 years post qualification experience in the
Managerial level.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.02.2008
219
02. Deputy Project Director.– 01 Post.
Duties and Responsibilities :
1. Implementation of conceptual framework of the
Project.
2. Guide the development team in developing
methodologies, procedures, guidelines and operational
manuals for the proposed Univotec and Colleges of
Technology.
3. Develop a student selection and admission procedure
for CoTs and UNIVOTEC with the required bridging
programs.
4. Update TVEC registration procedure and undertake
institutional audits.
5. Finalize competency standards and curricula/study
packs for the identified courses in CoTs and Univotec.
6. Assisting identification of Teaching and Training
equipment with the assistance of the Industry.
7. Assist the Project Dirctor for the execution of the
project.
8. Any other work assigned by the Project Director.
03. Project Manager (Information and Communication
Technology.– 01 Post.
Duties and Responsibilities :
1. Facilitate procedure development on Output Based
Budgeting System, Student Registration and Alumini
Registration.
2. Identify, develop and install Software for Output Based
Budgeting System, Student Registration and Alumini
Registration.
3. Institutionalize the developed methodology, procedure,
Software and manuals on implementation of Output
Based Budgeting, Student Registration and Alumini
Registration.
4. Institutionalization and sustainability of (3) above.
5. Technical and V ocational Training on special basis.
6. Responsible for automation of College of Technology
and Univotec and operationalize the above.
7. Responsible to introduce innovative ICT development
for the TEVT sector.
04. Project Manager (Procurement).– 01 Post.
Duties and Responsibilities :
1. Develop and ensure timely implementation of the
procurement plan.
2. Establish appropriate procurement procedure in
accordance with ADB and the Government
procurement guidelines.
3. Ensure compliance with such procedure in the
procurement of consultancy, goods and services, Civil
construction with the assistance of the Project
Managers and Project Stake Holders.
4. Prepare all documentation relevant to procurement
activities such as bidding documents, RFP, Agreements
etc.
5. Act as the Secretary in Project and Ministry
procurement committees.
6. Identify competent personnel for Technical Evaluation
and facilitate.
7. Evaluate bids and timely supply of goods and services.
8. Assist the Project Director in contract negotiations.
9. Establish and maintain close relationships with Donors,
Government agencies, Suppliers, Project Participatory
Institutions.
10. Submit necessary reports in relation to procurement
activities to donor Agencies, National Procurement
Bureau and other relevant institutions.
11. Any other duties assigned by the Project Director from
time to time.
05. Finance Manager.– 01 Post.
Duties and responsibilities :
1. Establish sound accounting practices and systems to
manage financial resources available to the project.
2. Provide accurate, complete and timely financial
information for managing and monitoring project
activities.
3. Prepare annual budget estimates and disbursement
plans of the project.
4. Ensure accountability and promote the efficient use
of financial resources allocated for the project based
on Government and Foreign Financial Agency
procedures.
5. Ensure timely withdrawal/payment/reimbursement of
funds from the foreign financing agency for project
expenditure.
6. Prepare monthly, quarterly and annual financial
statement in time and dispatch as required by the
donors, M/Finance, M/Plan Implementation and
Project Participatory Institutions.
7. Comply with audit requirement.
8. Maintain close relationship with other /Government
agencies involved in the disbursement of funds under
foreign funded projects.
Professional Competencies :
* Good knowledge on current international/local accounting
standards and generally accepted accounting practices.
* Good knowledge on accounting policies and practices in
force in Sri Lanka ; knowledge of and experience in, public
sector accounting and expenditure control systems.
* Experience in the design, documentation and
implementation of accounting systems at a project and/
or entity level.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.02.2008
220
* Computer literacy.
* High level of proficiency in written and spoken English.
06. Project Engineer.– 01 Post.
Duties and Responsibilties :
1. Design and implement improvements/renovation of
workshop and other facilities to conduct diploma level
training programs at provincial levels.
2. Prepare cost estimates and drawings for the
improvements/renovations involving civil construction
activities.
3. Prepare Maintenance Plan for each CoT at provincial
level.
4. Prepare a Master Plan for infrastructure work for the
proposed University of V ocational Technology.
5. Prepare detail bills of quantities with the cost estimates
for the Univotech.
6. Closely supervise implementation of the civil
construction activities of the Project and make necessary
recommendations for approval.
7. Facilitate procurement part of the civil construction
activities.
8. Maintain close relationship with the Project
Participatory Institutions, stake holders and other
required parties.
9. Prepare reports as and when required by the donor
agencies, PPIs etc.
Qualifications and Experience for above Posts 2 - 6.
Charted/Corporate membership of recognized Professional
Institution/post graduate degree in the relevant field and
minimum of 08 years of post qualification experience in
senior managerial level ; or
Class I Officer of a government all island services or similar
status in the relevant field with minimum of 05 years
experience in Class I level.
Professional Competencies for above Posts 2 - 6.
1. Ability to deliver technical services as required by the
project and to assist the Project Director.
2. Proven ability to handle project activities related to the
required area of specialization independently.
3. Ability to function effectively in a team environment,
inspiring trust and co-operation of other team members.
4. Ability to analyze and resolve implementation problems
resourcefully and consistently.
5. Computer Literacy.
High level proficiency in written and spoken English.
Age Limit.– Applicants for above posts should be below 57
years at the closing date of the applications.
Remuneration .– Negotiable, depending upon candidate’s
qualifications and experience. (Based on the Management Services
Circular No. 33 of 05.04.2007).
General Conditions :
1. The employee’s and employer’s contribution to the
Employee’s Provident Fund (EPF) will be 8% and 12%
of the salary respectively while Employer’s contribution
to Employee’s Trust Fund (ETF) will be 3% of the
salary.
2. The posts will be on full time and contract basis initially
for a period of 01 year and will be renewed annually on
the basis of performance.
3. Experience in Foreign Funded Projects will be an added
qualification.
Applicants with required qualifications will be short listed and
called for an interview.
Applications with the names and addresses of two non-related
referees and completed bio-data along with photocopies of
certificates should reach under registered cover to the following
address on or before 24.03.2008. Please indicate the name of the
post on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Secretary,
Ministry of V ocational and
Technical Training.
“Nipunatha Piyasa”,
No. 354/2, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
15th February, 2008.
02–846
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY   OF   LIVESTOCK   DEVELOPMENT
Amendment to Gazette Notification No. 1,535 of 01.02.2008
FOLLOWING amendments are made to the notification published with regard to the open limited competitive examination for the vacancies
in class II Grade II, in Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service of the Ministry of Livestock Development.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.02.2008
221
* In Chapter one Address to reach the applications should be “No. 45, St. Micheals Road, Colombo 03”.
* Statement II in Chapter 08 should be –
“should be a Livestock Development Officer/Research Assistant with two year Diploma in Animal Husbandry/Agriculture and presently
employed at the Department of Animal Production and Health or Livestock Development Instructors employed in Provincial Service and
an officer who has successfully completed 04 year service as Livestock Development Instructor in Sri Lanka Livestock Development
Officers Service or Provincial Service or Sri Lanka Technicals Service special class or class I”.
SUNIMAL  SENARATHANA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock Development.
11th February, 2008.
02–851
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE
OFFICERS  BELONGING  TO  THE  POSTS  OF
DOCUMENT  ASSISTANTS  AND  SCHOOL  DATA
ENTRY  OPERATORS  RECRUITED  UNDER  THE
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION - 2008
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination will be
held by the Commissioner General of Examinations in March 2008
in accordance with the provisions in the schemes of recruitment
applicable to the officers recruited to the above posts.
02. (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and the candidates are bound
by the rules and regulations prescribed by the him
relating to conducting the examination.
(ii)Rules and Regulations prescribed for the candidates
are published separately in this Gazette Notification.
In the event of violation of these rules and regulation
they will be liable to be subjected to a punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
03. Applications.-Application should conform to the specimen
form given at the end of this notification. This application may be
typewritten and prepared in an A4 size paper but it should be filled
in correctly and clearly in candidate's own hand writing. Duly
perfected applications should be sent under registered post through
their Zonal Director of Education/Head of the Department and
addressed to Secretary, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya
Battaramulla to be received before 29.02.2008. In forwarding the
application the name of the examination should be written on the
top left hand corner of the envelope. Applications received after
the closing date will be rejected. A sum of Rs. 250 should be paid as
examination fee to any District/Divisional Secretary's office to be
credited to Object Code No. 4000-20-03-20-13 in the name of
Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt obtained
should be firmly affixed at the place provided for  in the application.
It will be useful to keep a photo copy of the receipt with the
candidate.
Applications which do not conform to the specimen form, and
those where the examination fee has not been paid before the due
date as well as incomplete applications without placing the signature
and official frank of the Head of Department/Institute will be
rejected.
04. Identity of Candidates.- Candidates should prove their
identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor
for every subject they appear. For this purpose any one of the
following documents will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A Valid Passport
The candidature of any candidate who fails to produce a
document indicated above may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. The Commissioner General of Examinations will take action
to issue an admission card together with a copy of the Time Table
of the Examination to the candidates whose applications were
accepted. Candidates appearing for the examination should submit
their admission card to the Supervisor of the examination hall.
Candidates will not be allowed to sit the examination without such
admission card. Immediately after posting the admission cards a
notification will be published to that effect in Dinamina, Thinakaran
and Daily News papers if any candidate does not receive his
admission card at least 07 days prior to the date of conducting the
examination he/she should communicate the Commissioner General
of Examinations to that effect along with the following details :
1. Name of examination,
2. Full name of candidate,
3. Postal Address,
4. Name of Post Office, registration number and date posted.
06. Heads of Departments should allow duty leave to the
candidates who had received admission cards issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations to enable them to sit the
examination. Travelling expenses will not be paid to them.
07. Both papers should be answered in the language medium the
candidate received his education or in the Official Language.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.02.2008
222
08. This examination will be held only in Colombo.
09. Examination Procedure.- Examination relating to the above
posts will consist of the following subjects :
01. Computer Test : Time 01 Hour - 100 Marks - 50 Multiple
Questions.
02. Office Systems : Time 01 Hour - 100 Marks - 50 Multiple
Questions.
03. Accounting Systems : 01 Hour - 100 Marks - Out of five
structured questions answers expected for four questions.
10. Syllabus :
01. Office Systems - (01 Hour) - 100 Marks
It is expected to test basic knowledge relating to office
systems used in Government Offices and ability for
practical use of such knowledge, ability to properly
understand the official documents and thereby to submit
views/observations by clear and precise minutes and
ability to draft a letter according to the order given.
02. Accounting Systems - (01 Hour) - 100 Marks
It is expected to assess the understanding and knowledge
in basic accounts used in Government Offices and in
cash control books.
03. Testing of Computer Literacy.- A practical test of 01
hour.
In instances where it is not possible to provide computer
facilities candidates should pass a test in type writing as
decided by the Secretary of the Line Ministry.
Candidates who have followed Computer Courses within
a period not less than 06 months conducted by Institutes
registered under the Ministry of Tertiary Education and
V ocational Training will be exempted from this test.
(Candidates who are already engaged in service with a
period of service exceeding three years and who have
passed the first efficiency bar test will be granted a
concessionary period  of 03 years from the date of passing
such test.)
The objective of this test to examine whether the
candidates are having the following abilities :
Basic concepts relating to Information Technology
Window Operation system
File Management
Word Processing :
Basic skills, screen familiarization, text editing
Text alignment, fonts, sub paras, paras, change of space
between lines,
Tab settings text search and placement,
Letters and grammar errors, synonyms,
Rows setting, page set up,
Document printing,  Table creation, Setting in order,
File Management,
Preparation of a document to be sent to several
addresses,
Macro use.
Spread Sheet :
Basic skills
Formatting
Editing
Columns and ranges new inclusions and deletions
Data Preparation in order
Graph setting
Printing
Function
Macro use, File Management.
Introduction of Data Base Basic skills :
Creation and use of data base
Forms
Allied Forms, Popup forms dialogues and message
boxes
Queries
Sorting in order
Obtaining reports
Macro use
Internet : Introduction of Internet, World wide
network, path finding Applied Internet
E-Mail : Mail response
Use of annexure, use of short terms to
identify address
Message compilation.
11. The decision of the Secretary of the Ministry of Education
shall be the final decision relating to any matter for which no
provision has been made by this Notification.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
'Isurupaya', Battaramulla,
08th February 2008.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.02.2008
223
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE
HOLDERS OF THE POSTS OF DOCUMENT ASSISTANTS
AND DATA ENTRY OPERATORS IN THE MINISTRY OF
EDUCA TION - 2008
(For Office Use)
Medium appearing for Examination
Relevant letter to be written in the cage
 (Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
01. Candidate's name with initials at the end :————.
(In English Capital Letters)
1.1 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In English Capital Letters)
1.2 Name in full  :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No.
02. Place of work and address :
2.1 Name of School/NCOE/Teacher's College/Office :—––—.
2.2 Official address :————.
(In English Capital Letters) (Admission Card to be posted
to this address)
03. Post held at present :
3.1 Reference number in letter of appointment :————.
3.2 Date of appointment :————.
04. Subjects appear for :
No. Subject Mark
01 Computer Test
02 Office Systems and Procedure
03 Accounting Systems applied in Government Offices
(Please insert mark x within the cage.)
05. Please affix here receipt for payment of fee to sit the examination
No. :————. Date :————.
Receipt should be affixed here
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me above are
true and correct and I am entitled to sit the examination in the
language medium indicated above and I will abide by the rules and
regulations prescribed for this examination.
————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.
Note : Candidate should sign in the presence of his/her Head of
Department or an officer authorized to sign on his behalf.
C
ERTIFICATION  OF  SIGNATURE
I hereby certify that/Mr./Mrs./Miss........................................
who is an officer in my office/School College of Education/Teachers'
College and known to me personally placed his/her signature in my
presence on ..............................2008.
————,
Signature and Official Frank of certifying officer,
(Principal/President/Teachers' College Principal/Staff Officer)
Name :————,
Designation :————,
Address :————,
Date :————.
C
ERTIFICATE  OF  HEAD  OF  DEPARTMENT
I hereby certify that,
1. the information furnished above were verified and
2. that this officer is eligible to sit this examination.
————,
Signature and Official Frank of Certifying Officer.
Zonal Director of Education/President.
Name :————,
Designation :————,
Address :————,
Date :————.
02-719
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.