

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
REGISTERED STOCK AND SECURITIES
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 2 OF 2004
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 6th January, 2004]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 10.75 Postage : Rs. 4.50
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 9, 2004

<!-- page 2 -->

1Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
Short title.
2—H 019296–5,650 (09/2003)
[Certified on 6th January, 2004]
L.D.—O. 44/2003
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  REGISTERED  STOCK  AND  SECURITIES
O RDINANCE
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Registered Stock and
Securities (Amendment) Act, No.  2  of 2004.
2. (1) Section 5A  of the Registered Stock and Securities
Ordinance  (Chapter  420)  (hereinafter referred to as the
“principal enactment”) is hereby amended as follows :—
(1) by the re-numbering of that section as subsection
(1) of that section ; and
(2) by the addition immediately after the re-numbered
subsection (1), of the following new subsection :—
“(2) Without prejudice to anything contained
in this Ordinance particularly the provisions of
sections 21
C , 21D , 21E, and 21F, the Central Bank
shall regulate, supervise and monitor the primary
dealers and the designated non-dealer bidders with
respect to their transactions in Treansury Bonds
issued in the form of witten certificates.”.
3. Section 21
A  of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
21A .  (1) Every Treasury Bond shall, on
being issued, bind the government to pay the
principal sum for which the Bond is issued and
the interest thereon in accordance with the
provisions of this Ordinance, at the rate and on
the dates specified in the Order made in terms
of section 4 or in pursuance of an option reserved
in such Order to redeem such Bond :
Amendment of
section 5
A  of the
Registered Stock
and Securities
Ordinance
(Chapter 420).
Replacement of
section 21
A  of
the principal
enactment.“Treasury
Bonds.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
Provided that, if the day on which such
payment falls due is a day on which the Central
Bank is not open for business, payment shall
be made in accordance with the procedure as
may be prescribed in that behalf.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this Ordinance, treasury bonds may be issued
either as bonds in the form of written certificates
or as Scripless Treasury Bonds.”.
4. Section 21
C  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (3) of that section —
(a) by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following
paragraph :—
“(b) the period within which any sum due as
principal, interest or redemption
proceeds if any, paid on scripless
treasury bonds in such accounts should
be paid to customers or persons entitled
thereto.”;
(b) by the substitution in paragraph (e) of that
subsection for the words “pledged or
encumbered.” of the words “pledged or
encumbered;”; and
(c) by the addition immediately after paragraph
(e) of that subsection of the following new
paragraph :—
(f) the furnishing of information to the
Central Bank, the manner, means and
periods at which such information shall
be furnished to the Central Bank.”;
Amendment of
section 21
C  of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
(2) by the addition immediately after subsection (3) of
that section of the following new subsections :—
“(4) The Central Bank may by Notification
published in the Gazette and in two local newspapers
in the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, require
the holder of Treasury Bonds issued in the form of
written certificates of a series to be specified in such
Notification, if they so desire to surrender such bonds
for conversion into Scripless Treasury Bonds in
accordance with such procedure as may be
prescribed. Such Treasury Bonds shall upon
conversion into Scripless Treasury Bonds be deemed
to be Scripless Treasury Bonds issued under this
Ordinance.
(5) Nothing contained in subsection (4) shall
be construed as affecting or discharging the liability
of the Government under this Ordinance to make
payment on a Treasury Bond issued in the form of a
written certificate belonging to a series specified in
a Notification published under that subsection which
has not been converted into a Scripless Treasury
Bond in terms of such subsection.”.
5. Section 21
D  of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
21D . (1) The Central Bank may in writing
appoint any primary dealer or other person to
be a direct participant who shall be entitled to
maintain accounts in respect of Scripless
Treasury Bonds as specified in subsection (2).
(2) A direct participant shall maintain in a
depository referred to in the Monetary Law Act,
Securities Accounts to hold Scripless Treasury
Bonds and other scripless securities to which
such direct participant has title and to record
Amendment of
section 21
D  of
the principal
enactment.
“Direct
participants.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
the interests of such direct participant in
scripless treasury bonds and other scripless
securities in accordance with such rules and
regulations made under the Monetary Law Act.
(3) The Central Bank shall pay to a direct
participant the sum due as the principal, interest
and redemption proceeds, if any, on Scripless
Treasury Bonds in respect of which such direct
participant is recorded as owner in accounts
maintained by such direct participant under
subsection (2), on the day the sum due as
principal, interest, or redemption proceeds, if
any, become payable.
(4) The Central Bank may inspect and take
copies of any books, records or accounts
maintained by a direct participant relating to
or affecting any Scripless Treasury Bonds, held
in its own account or, in the case of a dealer
direct participant, with respect to its own
account as well as those held in customers’
accounts. The direct participant or dealer direct
participant and its officers, directors,
employees, servants and agents shall furnish to
the Central Bank, all such books, records,
correspondence or any other documents as may
be required by the Central Bank, and shall
provide the Central Bank with all such
assistance as it may require to perform the duties
imposed on the Central Bank by this Ordinance
in respect of Scripless Treasury Bonds. The
provisions of this subsection shall apply to any
books, records, accounts and correspondence
maintained in an electronic form.
(5) In the event of the Government
incurring any liability or making payment of
any sum due as principal, interest or redemption

<!-- page 6 -->

5Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
proceeds with regard to  Scripless Treasury
Bonds, and where such liability arises or such
payment is made in consequence, or by reason,
of any default of a direct participant or a dealer
direct participant, such participant shall be
liable on demand by the Government, to
indemnify the Government with respect to such
liability or payment.
For the purpose of this subsection “default”
includes—
(a) any negligance or failure on the part
of a direct participant or a dealer direct
participant in the carrying out of any
function, or the discharging of any
duty, assigned to, or imposed on, him
by this Ordinance or by any other law
in relation to any matter dealt with by
this Ordinance ; and
(b) any act or omission on the part of a
direct participant or dealer direct
participant which constitutes an
offence under this Ordinance or any
other written law in relation to any
matter dealt with by this Ordinance :—
(i) whether or not there has been
any prosecution in respect of
such offence ; or
(ii) whether such act or omission
was by the direct participant,
or the dealer direct participant,
or by any director, officer,
employee or agent of such
direct participant or dealer
direct participant.'.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
6. Section 21E  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsections (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7),
(8) and (9) of that section and the substitution therefor, of the
following subsections :—
“(2) A dealer direct participant shall, in
addition to maintaining the accounts required
to be maintained under subsection (2) of section
21D , maintain in a depository referred to in the
Monetary Law Act, accounts in respect of each
of its customers to hold Scripless Teasury Bonds
and other scripless securities to which each such
customer has title and to record interests of each
such customer in Scripless Treasury Bonds and
other scripless securities in accordance with
such rules and regulations made under the
Monetary Law Act.
(3) The Central Bank shall pay to a dealer
direct participant, in addition to the payments
referred to in subsection (3) of section 21D , the
sum due as principal, interest, and redemption
proceeds, if any, on Scripless Treasury Bonds
in respect of which a customer of such dealer
direct participant is recorded as owner in
accounts maintained by such dealer direct
participant under subsection (2), on the day the
sum due as principal interest or redemption
proceeds if any, become payable.
(4) No person other than a dealer direct
participant may transact in Scripless Treasury
Bonds on behalf of any other person. Any
person, other than a direct participant and the
Central Bank desiring either to make a transfer
or to take a transfer of Scripless Treasury Bonds,
shall do so only through a dealer direct
participant.
Amendment of
section 21E  of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
(5) A dealer direct participant shall
maintain books and records to enable it to
perform and discharge its duties and functions
under this Ordinance and to discharge its
obligations to its customers and shall comply
with directions, if any, issued by the Central Bank
for such purpose.
(6) Upon receipt by a dealer direct
participant of any amount by way of payment
from the Central Bank in terms of subsection
(3) in respect of Scripless Treasury Bonds held
in a customer account, the dealer direct
participant shall pay such amount, within the
time specified in any direction issued by the
Central Bank, to the customer or to any other
party entitled to such payment by law or in
terms of a written agreement to which the dealer
direct participant and the customer are party.
(7) If a dealer direct participant is unable
for any reason to effect payment to a customer
or to a party entitled to payment in terms of
subsection (6), within the time specified in
directions issued by the Central Bank, the dealer
direct participant shall within such period as
may be specified in such directions, transfer
the sum remaining unpaid to a prescribed
account of the Central Bank and shall provide
the Central Bank with such information as may
be required by the Central Bank with regard to
the payment and the customer or other party, as
the case may be.
(8) The sums of money transferred to a
prescribed account of the Central Bank in terms
of subsection (7) shall be paid to persons
entitled thereto and any monies lying
unclaimed shall be dealt with or disposed of,
by the Central Bank in such manner as may be
prescribed by regulations.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
(9) A dealer direct participant shall except
to the extent required for the proper conduct of
its business and administration, maintain
confidentiality in respect of accounts
maintained for a customer and any matter
connected therewith and shall not disclose to
any person other than to the Central Bank, any
information relating to an account of a customer
unless authorised to do so in writing by the
customer, or except where it is required to do so
under any law or by an order of court.
(10) Subject to the provisions of any
applicable written law, a dealer direct
participant shall be wholly responsible and
liable to customers in respect of all transfers
taken or made by such customer through such
dealer direct participant.”.
7. Section 21
F of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
21F. (1) Where a transfer of title to a
Scripless Treasury Bond is made by a dealer
direct participant from or into an account
maintained for a customer under subsection (4)
of section 21
E or an interest of any customer in
a Scripless Treasury Bond is recorded or any
amendment or variation is made in respect of
any such interest in any Scripless Treasury Bond
in such account, such dealer direct participant
shall issue to such customer a confirmation in
accordance with such directions as may from
time to time be issued by the Central Bank.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall
not be construed as derogating from any
obligation imposed under the Monetary Law
Act on the provider of depository facilities for
Replacement of
section 21
F of
the principal
enactment.
“Transfer of
Scripless
Treasury
Bonds.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
scripless securities, to issue statements or
confirmations in respect of accounts maintained
in such depository and in the event of any
conflict or inconsistency between a statement
or confirmation so issued by the depository and
the statement or confirmation issued under
subsection (1), the statement or confirmation
issued by the depository shall prevail.
(3) The confirmation referred to in
subsection (1) shall not be capable of being
negotiated and shall be used solely as evidence
of dealings between the dealer direct participant
who issued it and the customer in respect of the
Scripless Treasury Bond to which it relates.
(4) The Central Bank may permit any
notification, confirmation, acknowledgment or
receipt required under this section to be issued
in a non-written form and to be transmitted or
delivered by wire, telephone, satellite, cable or
any other such electronic, magnetic or optical
media, as may be specified by the Central Bank.
(5)  An electronic record of a Scripless
Treasury Bond, or any confirmation, notice,
acknowledgment, receipt or other document or
record issued or maintained for the purposes of
this Ordinance in an electronic form shall not
be denied legal effect, validity, or
enforceability solely on the ground that such
scripless treasury bond is maintained in an
electronic form or that such confirmation,
notice, acknowledgement receipt or other
document or record is issued or maintained in
electronic form and such confirmation, notice,
acknowledgment, receipt or other document
may be tendered in evidence in proceedings
before any court or tribunal in accordance with

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
Parts II and III of the Evidence (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 1995 or any other
law for the time being in force in relation to the
tendering of computer evidence before any
court or tribunal.”.
8. Section 51 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section of the following new subsection :-
“(1
A ) The provisions of subsection (1) shall
not preclude the Registrar or the Central Bank
from recognizing Treasury Bonds held in trust
for customers by primary dealers or other
authorized persons in accordance with
directions issued from time to time by the Central
Bank.”.
9. Section 55 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) of
that section of the following new subsection :-
“(2
A ) The Scripless Treasury Bonds issued
under this Ordinance shall be transferred,
pledged, encumbered, lent, borrowed or
otherwise transacted in, as provided by
regulations and any transfer, pledge,
encumbrance, loan, borrowing or any other
transaction effected accordingly shall be valid
and effectual notwithstanding any other law
relating to such transactions in Treasury Bonds
issued in the form of written certificates.”.
10. Section 56
A  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following subsections :-
“(2) Any person guilty of an offence under
this Ordinance shall be liable on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate, to
Amendment of
section 51 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 55 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 56
A  of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five
years or to a fine not exceeding ten million
rupees or where the offence has resulted in
monetary loss or monetary gain or a loss or gain
which is quantifiable in monetary terms to any
person, to a fine equivalent to twice the value
of such loss or gain or to both such
imprisonment and fine.
(3) The Central Bank may, with the consent
of Court, having regard to the circumstances in
which an offence under this Act was committed
compound such offence for a sum of money not
exceeding rupees five million, or where the
offence has resulted in  monetary loss or
monetary gain or a loss or gain which is
quantifiable in monetary terms, to any person,
for a sum of money equivalent to one and a half
times the value of such loss or gain.
(4) The compounding of an offence under
this section shall have the effect of an acquittal.”.
11. Section 58 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :-
(1) by the substitution for the definition of the
expression customer of the following definition-
‘“customer” in relation to a dealer direct participant
means any person who purchases or sells or
otherwise acquires or disposes of Scripless
Treasury Bonds or an interest therein through
such dealer direct participant or who negotiates
with such dealer direct participant for the
possible acquisition or disposition of such
bond or interest and shall include where the
context so permits a legal representative of
such customer or of the estate of such
customer ;’;
Amendment of
the section 58 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
(2) by the addition immediately after the definition of
the expression ‘interdealer broker’ of the following
new definitions-
‘“Monetary Law Act” means the Monetary Law Act
(Chapter 422) as amended from time to time
and shall include any enactment that replaces
such Act in relation to the matters contained
therein, and where any section is specifically
referred to in this Ordinance the reference shall
be taken to include the corresponding sections
in the subsequent enactment ;’ ;
‘“securities account” shall have the same meaning
as in the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422).’.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)
Act, No. 2 of 2004
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.