

<!-- page 1 -->

6 Pasyodunrata Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI  LANKA
PASYODUNRATA  DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 05 OF 1999
[Certified on 26th  March, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 26, 1999.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: Rs. 4.50                  Postage: Rs.3.50
(Internet Version)


<!-- page 2 -->

1Pasyodunrata Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999
[Certified on 26th March , 1999]
L.D. - O 30/97.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  PASYODUNRATA  DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS  a foundation called and known as the
“Pasyodunrata Development Foundation” has heretofore been
formed at Matugama for the purpose of effectively carrying
out the objects of the said Foundation and transacting all
matters connected with the said Foundation  according to the
rules agreed to by its members;
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out transacted the several objects and
matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application:
BE it therefore enacted by  the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This act may be cited as the Pasyodunrata
Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as are members of the
Pasyodunrata Development Foundation hereinafter referred
to as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admited as
members of the corporation hereby constituted shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession under the name and style
of the “Pasyodunrata Development Foundation” (hereinafter
referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may
sue and be sued in all courts with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be -
(a) to promote community based organisations;
Preamble
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Pasyodunrata
Development
Foundation.
General objects.
H-022545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Pasyodunrata Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999
(b) to builed up the capacity of such organisations;
(c)  to promote the educations of the under privileged;
(d) to carry out  relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction
programmes;
(e) to promote health education, and to provide
information on the eradication of malnutrition;
(f)to further, the welfare and development of the
under privileged;
(g) to promote income generating projects in the
plantations as well as in the villages, and to launch
self help projects, with a view to generating
employment;
(h) to provide assistance to relive distress caused by
natural disasters such as floods, cyclones and
droughts ;
(i) to disseminate knowledge and information on
improved methods of agriculture , horticulture
aquaculture, sericulture, animal husbandry, fresh
water fisheries and bee keeping, through the
publication and distribution of books and
pamphlets and the conduct of seminars, workshops,
lectures and film shows;
(j)to promote thrift among the under privileged.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
and furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them , including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys, with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,
and to engage employ and dismiss officers and servants
required  for  the carrying  out  of  the objects of the Corporation.
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Pasyodunrata Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999
     5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rule inforce for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Management consisting of the
office-bearers and such other persons as may be provided for
in such rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall be the Board of Management of the Foundation holding
office on the day prior to the date of commencement of this
Act.
    6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by majority
of the votes, of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, or any other written law for the admission,
withdrawal, resignation, retirement or expulsion of members,
for the election of the office-bearers of the Board of
Management and for the conduct of the duties of the Board of
Management and of the various officers, agents and servants
of the Corporation by the Board of Management for the
procedure to be followed in the transaction of business, and
otherwise generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects. Such rules
when made may, at a like meeting and in like manner, be
 altered, added to, amended or rescinded.
(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
prior to the date of commencement of this Act, shall be deemed
to be the rules of the Corporation made under this section in
so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, or any other written law.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
    7 . All debts and liabilities of the Foundation
 existing on the day preceding the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to and subscriptions and contributions
payable to, the foundation on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due to and
payable by the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Pasyodunrata Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999
8. The Corporation shall be capable in law to acquire
and hold any property, movable or immovable which may
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act,
and shall, subject to the rules of the Corporation have full
power to sell, mortgage, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Board of Management who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act, contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate or of any other person except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from, or under,
them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Corporation may
hold property,
movable or
immovable.
How the seal of
the Corporation
is to be affixed
Safeguarding the
rights of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala text to
Prevail in case of
any inconsistency

<!-- page 6 -->

5Pasyodunrata Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.5 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign),
Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT . GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.