

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2273$15 - 2022 ud¾;= ui 29 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2022'03'29
No.  2273/15  -   tuesdAy,   mArch  29,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
my No. cI/1603
ThE   INDuSTRIAL   DISPuTES   ACT., ChAPTER  131
the collective Agreement entered into between ceAt Kelani International tyres (Pvt) Limited, Nungamugoda, Kelaniya of 
the one part and the Inter company employees union, No. 10, council Lane, dehiwala of the other  part on 18th November 
2021 is hereby published in terms of section 06 of the Industrial disputes Act, chapter 131, of the Legislative enactments 
of ceylon (revised edition 1956)
B. K. PraBath ChandraKeerthi,
commissioner General of Labour.
department of Labour,
Labour secretariat,
colombo 05,
09th march, 2022.
1A-   G 36478 — 19  (03/2022)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
2A
Collective Agreement No. 23 of 2021
coLLectIve AGreemeNt
this collective Agreement entered into on this eighteenth day of November two thousand and twenty-one (November 
18, 2021) between ceAt Kelani International tyres (Pvt) Limited, a company duly incorporated in sri Lanka and having 
its registered office at Nungamugoda, Kelaniya, (hereinafter referred to as “the Employer”) and Inter Company Employees’ 
Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka under the trade Unions Ordinance and having its registered office at                 
No. 10, Council Lane, Dehiwala (hereinafter referred to as “The Union”)
   Whereas, the union by its letter dated march 08, 2021 submitted certain demands in respect of their members employed 
in the  factory of the said employer, the employer and the said union have discussed and come to a settlement with regard 
to certain demands regarding revision of salaries and other terms and conditions of employment, and having arrived at a 
negotiated settlement wish to agree on the following terms and conditions as a full and final settlement thereto;-
 1. Parties Covered and Bound
  the Provisions of this Agreement shall apply to the employer, the union and its members in the operative Grades 
engaged on permanent basis in the company. the Provisions of this agreement shall not apply to trainees/apprentices.
 2. Date of operation and duration 
  this Agreement shall come into force on the First day of october two thousand and twenty-one (october 01, 2021) 
and shall remain in froce unless terminated by either party, with three months’ notice, in writing, to the other, subject 
to the condition that neither party shall give such notice prior to July 01, 2024 and this Agreement shall not stand 
terminated prior to the 01st day of october 2024.
 3. Salaries 
  the salaries of the employees covered and bound by this agreement will be increased in the following manner. the 
revisions will be subject to the achievement of revised production norms and efficiency parameters set out in schedule 
A - Annexure i, schedule A - Annexure ii, and schedule A - Annexure iii, hereof.
 3.1. With effect from October 01, 2021, the employer shall add Rs. 4,500/= to the basic salary of each confirmed 
employee who has not completed 4 years of service as at July 31, 2021 and rs. 5,500/= to the basic salary of 
each confirmed employee who has completed 4 years or more but less than 8 years in service as at July 31, 
2021 and shall add rs. 6,000/- to the basic salary of each employee who has completed 8 years of service or 
more and confirmed in service as at July 31, 2021.
 3.2. With effect from october 01, 2022, the employer shall add rs. 4,000/- to the basic salary of each employee 
who has not completed 4 years of Service but confirmed in service as at July 31, 2021 and Rs. 4,250/= to the 
basic salary of each confirmed employee who has completed 4 years or more but less than 8 years in service as 
at July 31, 2021 and Rs. 4,500/= to the basic salary of each confirmed employee who has completed 8 years or 
more but less than 12 years in service as at July 31, 2021 and Rs. 4,500/= to the basic salary of each confirmed 
employee who has completed 12 years or more but less than 16 years in service as at July 31,    2021 and                         
Rs. 5,000/= to the basic salary of each confirmed employee who has completed 16 years or more but less than 
20 years in service as at July 31, 2021 and Rs. 5,500/= to the basic salary of each confirmed employee who has 
completed 20 years or more in service as at July 31, 2021.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
3A
 3.3. With effect from october 01, 2023, the employer shall add rs. 4,500/- to the basic salary of each employee 
who has not completed 4 years of service but confirmed in service as at July 31, 2021 and Rs. 5,250/= to the 
basic salary of each confirmed employee who has completed 4 years or more but less than 8 years in service as 
at July 31, 2021 and Rs. 5,500/= to the basic salary of each confirmed employee who has completed 8 years or 
more but less than 12 years in service as at July 31, 2021 and Rs. 6,000/= to the basic salary of each confirmed 
employee who has completed 12 years or more but less than 16 years in service as at July 31, 2021 and rs. 
6,500/= to the basic salary of each confirmed employee who has completed 16 or more in service as at July 31, 
2021.
Provided, without prejudice to the right of the Company to take other forms of disciplinary action, that a sum equivalent 
to One Twenty-fifth (1/25th) of the aforementioned increase will be deducted on account of each day of anthorized no pay 
absence recorded by an employee during each of his leave year commencing from the leave year 2020 subject to a disciplinary 
inquiry and only the balance will be added to the basic salary, if any. The management will consider approving authorized 
no-pay on case-by-case basis in case of emergencies when an employee has exhausted his/her full leave quota of a particular 
year, in case of such authorization, approval of Division Manager, Senior Manager - Production/Head of Engineering and 
the Plant head is mandatory. First such deduction will be made from the year 2021.
In addition, the employees who are on probation but being confirmed in employment during the year would be given the 
aforementioned salary increases applicable for the year in which the employee is confirmed on prorata basis calculated from 
the date of confirmation and 30th day of September of the year occurring immediately after the date of confirmation. The 
said increase will be added to the first salary due after the confirmation.
 3.4. In addition, as matter of goodwill, the Employer will make an ex-gratia payment of Rs. 9,000/= for confirmed  
employees with a service of below 4 years as at July 31, 2021 and rs. 11,000/= for employees with a service 
of 4 years or more but less than 8 years as at July 31, 2021 and rs. 12,000/= for all other employees who have 
completed 08 years or more as at July 31, 2021. this ex gratia payment will be made in the month of december 
- 2021. This ex-gratia payment will not constitute a part of an Employee’s salary for any purposes such as 
overtime, shift allowance, bonus or such like, except for provident Fund and trust Fund contributions.
 4. If during the continuance of this Agreement, the Government of Sri Lanka-
 a) Prescribes in any year, increases in salary/and or any allowances by any written law applicable to categories 
of employees covered by this Agreement, the employer shall be entitled to take credit for the salary increases 
granted to an employee in respect of such year in terms of clause 3 hereof and determine the increase, if any, 
that is to be granted to an employee accordingly.
 b) recommends increases in salaries/and or any allowances, such recommendations will not be applicable to 
the employer regardless of whether or not such recommendation is applicable to the categories of employees 
covered by this Agreement or not.
 5. Meal Allowance
  the employer will increase the meal allowance up to rs. 200/- per day for every day on which such employee reports 
for work with effect from April 01, 2022. this meal allowance will be calculated on a daily basis and paid at the 
end of the month effective April 01, 2022. Furthermore, the employer agrees to increase the meal allowance up to            
rs. 210/- per day with effect from April 01, 2023 and up to rs. 220/- per day with effect from April 01, 2024. In case, 
an employee continues to work for more than 5 hours on continuous basis after the normal shift hours he/she will be 
entitled for a meal allowance.
 6. Annual Increments
  unless otherwise decided on disciplinary grounds, in terms of this agreement, an employee shall be entitled to an 
annual increment in the month of April of each year, subject to the performance evaluation of each employee on the 
basis of the following:-

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
4A
Grades New Incremental Rates
Production and all other categories of  
employees except engineering divisions
rs. 250/-
employees of engineering sections rs. 275/-
team Leader rs. 300/-
employees may be given up to three (03) such increments based on the aforementioned performance evaluation.
 6.1. Probation
  Each employee  recruited to the permanent cadre of the Company will be required to serve a minimum period 
of six months’ probation during which the Employer will assess the suitability for confirmation through an 
evaluation process to ascertain his/her competence and suitability. the employer reserves the right to extend 
the period of probation of any employee. during the period of Probation or extended period of probation, where 
applicable, the employer shall have the right to terminate such probationary employment without any notice.
 7. Bonus
  Provided the Company registers a profit, the employees will be paid a bonus in respect of each year in keeping with 
the existing practice. the payment will be made in two instalments, as follows:-
 a) Advance payment in December of a particular year, subject to half-yearly performance and profits made as at 
30th september in relation to that year.
 b) Final payment in April of the following year, subject to the previous year’s performance.
  The quantum of bonus payable will be decided by the company. No bonus will be declared in case the Company 
registers a loss in respect of any year.
 8. hours of Work and Overtime
  Subject to changes due to exigencies of work the normal working hours during the continuance in force of this Agreement 
shall be those that are worked by the employees as at present. the employees shall work reasonable overtime as and 
when required by the Employer for which the employees shall be paid overtime as stipulated by the law.
  Employees in the Engineering Division, will be required to report for work as and when required (as per the roster 
or special programme), including statutory holidays. They will be required to work on all Sundays as at present, and 
will be entitled to 1 1/2 times’ wages and lieu leave as per the law. Also Saturday payments shall be made as per the 
law. Any employee who may be unable to report for work when required on any of the days mentioned above, should 
inform the relevant head of the department/human resource division, in writing, at least 24 hours in advance setting 
out the reasons for such inability. The Head of the relevant Department may accept or reject such a request by an 
employee taking into consideration the exigencies of business and the reasons cited by the employee. the decision 
taken by the Manager concerned in respect of such requirement shall be binding on the employee concerned. 
 9. Shift Allowance
  the employer shall continue to pay a shift allowance to employees engaged in the 2nd and 3rd shifts, i.e. from 2.00 
p.m. to 10.00 p.m., and from 10.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m. following day respectively, calculated at the rates and subject to 
the terms and conditions currently applicable.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
5A
 10. Attendance incentive for attending the night shift (i.e. from 10.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m.)
  the employer will continue to pay to employees and attendance incentive for attending work on the third shift at the 
same rates and on the same terms and conditions as at present.
 i. Provided also that the allowance of rs. 500/- payable on account of attending the night shift, for a minimum of 
six per mensem, would be deducted on a pro rata basis as given below, on account of approved leave availed 
of -
 a) more than 1 day of approved annual/casual/paternity Leave - deduction of rs. 150/-
 b) more than 2 days of approved annual/casual/paternity Leave - deduction of rs. 300/-
 c) more than 3 days of approved annual/casual/paternity Leave - Incentive will not be paid.
  No deduction will be made for lieu leave and Poya/mercantile holiday.
 ii. t wo mutual shift change would be allowed per employee per mensem. Provided however, the allowance shall 
not be paid to the employee, originally scheduled to work the night shift, if the covering employee does not 
report to work on the said night shift.
 11. Norms
  It is agreed between parties that the production norms/efficiency parameters/departmental requirements in the factory 
shall be in accordance with the revised norms agreed to between parties and as set out in schedule A - Annexure i, 
schedule A - Annexure ii and schedule A - Annexure iii hereof and the employees shall maintain such norms in their 
day-to-day work. The norms shall be subject to change in the event of the introduction of new machinery/technology, 
upgrading of existing machinery/technology or work processes geared towards improving production in the factory. 
The employees will strive towards controlling scrap and rejects and work towards the overall improvement of product 
quality.
  It is also agreed that any change in the pattern or design of production, according to market/customer requirements, will 
not have any effect on the norms and efficiency parameters (vide schedule A - Annexure I and II), and Departmental 
requirements (vide schedule A - Annexure III) that have been agreed to by parties. In the event of introducing new 
sizes specified in the schedules and Annexures, the management agrees two discuss and agree with the Unions new 
tyre building norms.
  In the event of introduction of new machinery/technology, and in the event that the union and the management fails to 
agree at a reasonable output norm within 3 months from the date of commissioning/installation/implementation, the 
company has the sole discretion to conduct a time and motion study/work study with the involvement of the union. 
Both management and union hereby agree to abide by the results/recommendations of such time and motion study/
work study. the time and motion study/work study will be carried out by a professional body in sri Lanka. the union 
will whole-heartedly and completely cooperate to make such studies complete and successful. the company agrees 
to allocate two union representative as an observer during the period of time and motion work study.
  the recommended norms of any work study which may be carried out in the future from time to time will be achieved 
within a period of 2 months from the date of officially handling over of the study report to the union.
 12. Production Bonus (I and II) and Productivity Bonus
 i. the employer shall continue to pay a production bonus of rs. 300/- per mensem (hereinafter referred to as 
production Bonus I), subject to employees achieving the production bonus payment criteria (vide Schedule B). 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
6A
Provided also, however, that such production bonus shall only be payable upon achieving production norms as 
set out in schedule A - Annexure I and efficiency parameters in schedule A - Annexure II as agreed to by parties. 
As such the production bonus scheme shall be continued and payments made as done in the past.
 ii. In addition to the payment of production bonus I, as set out in clause (i) above, the company shall continue to 
pay production bonus scheme, hereinafte referred to as Production Bonus II which has been already in place.
•	  If the monthly ticket is not sufficient to achieve the monthly average target of 19.5 metric tons per day,  
 this scheme will not be applicable for such months.
•	  to be eligible for the payment under the production bonus scheme, the company should achieve a 
minimum average of 19.5 metric tons per day as per the available working days for that particular month.  
If the planned working days are not covered due to any reason or unavoidable cirsumstances, the average 
production tonnage will be calculated as per the planned working days.
•	  the payment for the production bonus will be calculated on a daily basis as per the production bonus  
scheme. If the production tonnage in any particular day is below 19.5 metric tons, the said amount/s will  
 be taken for the calculation on monthly average basis.
•	  the company does not hold any liability for machine breakdown, material shortages, power failure,lack of 
semi products, lack of supply of material from the Kelaniya/Kalutara plants or from suppliers, absenteeism 
or any other reason which will have an impact on achieving the monthly average target.
•	  the company does not agree to extend the working hours of employees or to introduce any other  
 systems to achieve the average target which will have a negative impact and/or financial implications for  
 the company.
•	  Any scrap/defect tyres if produced will not be accounted under this production bonus scheme and the 
employees are required to maintain the highest quality of product as per the specifications.
•	 With the introduction of new technology, machinery, curing presses and increase of manpower, the monthly 
average and daily average production targets will also be proportionately increased and a new production 
bonus scheme will be introduced.
•	 the company has the sole discretion to withdraw, modify, amend or introduce on an intermittent basis the 
bonus scheme according to situations that may require such changes. This will be communicated to the 
employees at least two days prior to such actions.
•	  If an employee absents himself from work for more than 5 days in a month due to any reason either by 
way of utilizing his leave entitlement, suspension on disciplinary grounds or any other reason whatsoever, 
such employee will not be eligible for the production bonus for the relevant month.
•	  the production bonus earned in a particular month will be paid in the following month along with the salary 
and the production bonus will not be considered for employees Provident Fund (ePF), employees trust 
Fund (etF), Gratuity or any other statutory payments or allowances such as bonus, advances, overtime 
payments, etc.
  Production levels and payments in terms of production bonus II are set out as follows;
An average of 19.5 metric tons and above per day/month - rs. 750/-
An average of 20.0 metric tons and above per day/month -rs. 1,250/-
An average of 20.5 metric tons and above per day/month -rs. 1,750/-
An average of 21.0 metric tons and above per day/month -rs. 2,000/-
An average of 21.5 metric tons and above per day/month -rs. 2,500/-

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
7A
An average of 22.0 metric tons and above per day/month -rs. 3, 000/-
An average of 23.0 metric tons and above per day/month -rs. 3,500/-
•	  The payment under the production bonus II scheme shall be subject to the number of days and employee 
presents himself for work. If an employee absents himself from work, other than due to an accident whilst 
on duty, the payment will be made on a pro rata basis.
  Eg: the number of days work planned in the month - 25
  daily average of production per month - 21.0 mt
  Production bonus entitlement per month - rs. 2000/-
  No. of days present for work - 20
  Production bonus per month - rs. 2000/25 x 20 days
        = rs 1,600/-
Production for the purpose of calculation of Production Bonus II shall include total weight of output of Bias curing section 
and tBr section of ceA t Kelani International tyres (Pvt) Limited and totaln Weight of two Wheel section of ceA t 
Kelani radials (Pvt) Limited.
 iii. Apart from the production bonus schemes set out above, all permanent employees covered and bound by this 
agreement shall be paid a productivity bonus, on a monthly basis, considering their contribution towards the 
production of ‘semi-products’ that are supplied from the CKITL Plant to the Radial and ACPL plant as well as 
production levels achieved by the radial and AcPL plants, respective.
  AcPL Plant Achievement
Average of 21.5 metric tons per day for a month - rs. 200/-
Average of 22.5 metric tons per day for a month - rs. 250/-
Average of 23.5 metric tons per day for a month - rs. 300/-
Average of 24.5 metric tons per day for a month - rs. 350/-
Average of 25.5 metric tons per day for a month - rs. 400/-
  radial Plant Achievement
Achievement of average of 600 tyres per day for a month - rs. 300/-
Achievement of average of 650 tyres per day for a month - rs. 350/-
Achievement of average of 700 tyres per day for a month - rs. 400/-
Achievement of average of 750 tyres per day for a month - rs. 450/-
Achievement of over average of over 800 tyres per day for a month - rs. 500/-
  The payment under the above scheme will also be subject to the number of days present at work. If an employee in 
absent from work due to any reason, the payment will be made on a pro rata basis.
 13. Work assignments
  emoployees should be willing and ready to work on any machine in the factory or any work related to Production 
process to which they may be assigned, for which the Company shall provide adequate training wherever necessary.
 14. Annual Picnic
  t he company agrees to make payment of rs. 3,200/- per employee on account of the annual picnic. the payment would 
be made by the company upon the union submitting a list signed by employees indicating the desire to participate 
in the picnic. The Company will also provide suitable and adequate transport. The annual picnic shall not exceed two 
days’ duration and shall be organized by the Union in consultation with the Management.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
8A
  the picnic shall be arranged on a holiday in order to avoid disruption to production and may be curtailed to one day on 
account of operational exigencies. In the event the picnic is limited to one day on account of operational exigencies, 
the company would make a payment of rs. 2,500/- per employee.
  t he union and employees undertake to conduct themselves in an appropriate manner during the picnic and refrain from 
tarnishing the image of the company. The Company will be entitled to take disciplinary action upon inquiry against 
any employee or employees, who resort to acts of indiscipline during the picnic. In such instances, the company will 
not bear any liability, financial or otherwise, arising out of the misconduct of any employee.
 15. Leave
  employees shall be entitled to a maximum of 14 days annual leave in accordance with the provisions of the respective 
Wages Boards’ Decisions applicable to the trade. In addition to annual leave, employees will be entitled to 7 days 
casual leave, subject to the condition that absence on account of sickness in excess of two days should be supported by 
a medical certificate from the registered Medical Practitioner and whatever rules pertaining to leave in the Company.
 16. Facilities for the Trade union 
  the employer agrees to permit the Branch to conduct an executive committee meeting once in a month, for which 
the management would provide a suitable location within the administration building of the company. the employer 
also agrees to permit a designated member of the Parent union to attend these committee meetings, after obtaining 
prior permission to do so from the employer. Permission to hold such meetings shall be made in writing by the 
designated Branch committee member to the factory manager and the date on which such meeting would be held 
shall be communicated to him, at least five working days prior to the date of the intended meeting. The Employer also 
agrees to release ten committee members of the Branch who are on duty for a duration of not more than two hours 
to attend these meetings.
  It is also agreed by the employer to make a payment of rs. 40,000/- plus transport allowance of rs. 20,000/- for 
holding Annual General meetings of the Branch. It is agreed by the union and its employees that the AGm of the 
Branch shall be held outside the company premises on a holiday, in a manner that would not disrupt production 
at the factory at Kelaniya. It is also agreed by the employer to make a payment of rs. 20,000/- for transport and  
rs. 10,000/- for meals for union employees to take part in international Labour day celebrations and a further sum 
of rs. 25,000/- per annum for branch union activities.
  In addition, the company will allow any three persons of the Branch union nominated by the Parent union to attend 
meetings/training programs organized by the Parent union and required transport and meals will be provided by the 
company.
 17. Disciplinary Action
  When the company decides to proceed against an employee on disciplinary grounds, the following procedure will be 
adopted:-
 a) A show-cause notice setting out the misconduct alleged against the employee will be furnished to the 
employee regardless of whether the employee is suspended or not.
 b) The employee shall be required to submitm a written explanation to the show-cause letter within seven 
working days. The employee may, if he so requires, seek an extension of time to submit his explanation 
and the Company may at its discretion grant such an extension of time as being required.
 c) The Company shall conduct a domestic inquiry into the alleged misconduct on receipt of the employee’ s 
written explanation.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
9A
 d) The accused employee has the right to retain a defending officer on his behalf during the inquiry provided  
such defending officer is an employee of the company and a member of the union of which the accused 
employee  belongs to at the time of issuing the show cause letter. the accused employee should inform 
the company at least 5 working days prior to the inquiry the name of the defending officer. The Company 
should grant  permission to such nominated employee to take part in the inquiry with pay.
 e) The employee shall be informed, in writing, of the findings of  the inquiry and any punishment that has 
been has been imposed after the conclusion of the domestic inquiry.
 f) The Company may not be required to conduct a domestic inquiry in terms of sub-clause (c) above in case 
where the employee has admitted the acts of misconduct alleged against him. In such an event, the employee 
may be warned or suspended as a punishment in respect of such acts of misconduct.
 g) the services of an employee may be suspended without pay by the company pending disciplinary action 
or by way of punishment upon the findings of a domestic inquiry.
 h) In the event of an employee being suspended without pay and the employer is unable to conclude the 
domestic inquiry within a period of three months from the date of suspension other than for reasons beyond 
the control of the employer, the employee shall, pending the finalization of the inquiry, be entitled to receive 
half month’s wages in respect of each month in excess of such three months. 
 18. Variation of Terms and Conditions
  during the continuance in force of this agreement, neither party shall seek or attempt to vary, alter or change any 
of the terms and conditions contained herein and/or terms and conditions or other benefits, which are applicable to 
employees as at the date of signing this agreement other than by way of mutual agreement between parties.
  the union and the employees also agree that they shall not, raise any new demand or resort to any form of trade 
union action, whatsoever, in relation to any matter covered by the agreement.
 19. Disputes settlement procedure
 a) In the event of any dispute that shall arise between parties during the continuance in force of this agreement, 
the Branch of the Union in the Employer’s Establishment shall raise such dispute with the factory management 
of the employer and parties shall take all efforts to resolve such disputes amicably.
 b) If no settlement of the dispute can be reached between parties, the Branch of the Union may request the 
union to raise the matter in dispute with the company.
 c) Failing a settlement of the dispute as provided in the preceding sub-clauses, the union may raise the dispute 
with the department of Labour and move to have the dispute resolved under the provisions of the industrial 
disputes Act.  
 20. Trade union Action
  
  the employees and the union agree that they shall not, during the continuance in force of this Agreement, resort to 
trade union action of any form in respect of any dispute that may arise between parties which is covered by this 
agreement. Any such dispute may be settled in the manner provided herein.
  the employees and the union further agree that, in relation to any dispute which is not covered by this collective 
agreement, they shall strictly abide by the dispute settlement procedure set out herein (in clause 19) and shall give at 
least 14 days notice to the employer, in the event a decision is made to take trade union action, thereafter.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
10A
 21. compliance
  
  If workmen fail to achieve any of the norms agreed in this collective agreement and/or violate and clause of this 
agreement, management will have the prerogative not to implement the annual increase of compensation described 
under clause 3 of this agreement.
In witnesses hereof parties have set their hands on this eighteenth day of November two thousand and twenty-one 
(November 18, 2021)
.............................. .................................
Name : ravi dadlani Name : Wasantha samarasinghe
designation : m. d./ceo designation : President - Iceu on behalf of
on behalf of  Inter company employees union
ceAt - Kelani International tyres (Pvt) Ltd.
Witnesses:
1. ............................... 1. ................................
Name : m. K. c. thushara Name : r. A. Nayanananda
designation : dGm/Plant head - Kelaniya designation : President- Branch union 
2. .............................. 2. ...................................
Name : Adhil Khasim Name : d. G. s. d. Nawarathne
designation : Assistant director General designation : secretary - Branch
- Industrial relations union
date : November 18, 2021.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
11A


<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
12A


<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
13A


<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
14A


<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
15A


<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
16A


<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
17A


<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
18A


<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
19A


<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
20A


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
21A
schedule A - Annexure - iii
 1. extruder
 a. Efficiency of the machine/process is based on the number of hours operated and the effective output generated 
during the particular time of the operation.  
 b. The line speed of the machine will be decided based on the technically specified speed based on the 
specification.
 c. during continuous shift operation the machine should handover to the next shift as an on line running 
condition uninterruptedly.
 d. The entire crew is responsible for extruder operating efficiencies for rework/scrap and proper utilization of 
material as per the soP providing by the management
 e. cold feed extruder is in operation 2021-24 L ts onwards and 9 mP allocated
 2. calander section 
 a. Efficiency of the machine/process is based on the number of hours operated and the effective output generated 
during the particular time of the operation.
 b. Rubberizing calander fabric speed increased 25m/min to 27m/min.
 
 c. The entire calander operating crew is responsible for calander operating efficiencies for rework/scrap and 
proper utilization of material as per the SOP providing by the management
 3. Bias cutter
 a. Efficiency of the machine/process  is based on the number cuts made
 b. In case of providing fully auto function automation along with encoder for operator position, cutting norm 
should be increased and the cutter operator should be able to work as additional splicer.
 c. The norm should be delivered on proportionate basis in the occasion of unavailability of fully defined 
manpower.
 Bias cutter 1
 i. When 4 people available with 2w plan less than 50% - 2100 cuts/shift
 ii. When 3 people available with 2w plan less than 50% - 1050 cuts/shift
 iii. When 4 people available with 2w plan more than 50% - 2228 cuts/shift (32 cuts 68 rolls)
  
 iv. When 3 people available with 2w plan more than 50% - 1114 cuts/shift (32 cuts rolls 34)
 Bias cutter 2
 i. When 4 people available with total bias plan - 2112 cuts/shift
 ii. When 3 people available with total bias plan - 1056 cuts/shift
 iii. When 4 people available with total 2w plan cuts 10 rolls - 2560 cuts/shift (32 cuts 10 rolls per 
hr)
 iv. When 3 people available with total 2w plan - 853 cuts/shift/table
  Note- in  bias cutter no 2 on combination basis the no of cuts will be decide based on proportionate 
value.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
22A
 d. The entire bias cutter operating crew is responsible for unit operating efficiencies for rework/scrap and 
proper utilization of material as per the SOP providing by the management.
 e. radial bias ply cutting operation discontinued 2021-24 L ts onwards as auto bias cutter is in place for radial 
operation.
 4. Squeegee calander
 a. Efficiency of the machine/process is based on the number 16 cuts rolls made.
 b. The norm should be delivered on proporionate basis in the occasion of unavailability of fully defined 
manpower.
 i. When 8 people available - 136 rolls/shift
 ii. When 7 people available - 95 rolls/shift
 c. The entire squeegee calander operating crew is responsible for unit operating efficiencies for rework/scrap 
and proper utilization of material as per the SOP providing by the management
 d. Squeegee calendar 2nd shift added newly to the operation to cater Bias Squeegee ply requirement.
 
 5. t yre building
 a. Efficiency of the machine/process is based on the number of tyres made and the output generated during 
the particular time of the operation.
 b. Band building and tractor rear tyre building will be considered as two separated operations. tractor tyre 
building will be operated with one builder and one helper. they are responsible to get all material for the 
tractor tyre building operation.
 c. During the size change over times the material loading times will be as follows.
 i. When the servicer is empty
 1. For Lt machine servicer loading 60 minutes
 2. For truck machine servicer loading 6+2B 60 minutes
 3. For truck machine servicer loading 8+2B 75 minutes
 ii. When the material is available in the servicer the operator has to unload the existing and to be 
reload the new size related material. In this situation
 1. For Lt machine servicer loading 6+2B 75 minutes
 2. For tt machine servicer loading 6+2B 75 minutes
 3. For tt machine servicer loading 6+2B to 8+2B 75 minutes
 4. For tt machine servicer loading 8+2B to 6+2B 75 minutes
 5. For tt machine servicer loading 8+2B to 8+2B 90 minutes
 d. All green tyres should be build as per the specification and follow the SOP provided by the technical 
department in order to maintain the quality.
 e. the green tyre should be inspected after the building (assembling) to ensure the tyre is free from building 
defects. (Eg. The tyre should free of blisters, open chafers, open tread joints, loosen cords etc)
 f. the operator should deliver the agreed full norms with the helper.
 g. the operator should stick the builder number in the center of the green tyre.
 h. considering the low demand of the bias tyres 06 people with be shift from tyre building department of 
newly added cold feed extruder section.
 6. Bead Winding
 a. Efficiency of the machine/process is based on the number of beads made and the output generated during 
the particular time of the operation.
 7. Bead filler extrusion
 a. Efficiency of the machine/process is based on filler kg pulled out and the output generated during the 
particular time of the operation.
 b. The existing machine is equipped with only one die opening. Upon completion the opening for two slots 
and technologically confirmation the union and employed are agreed to provide the agreed output.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
23A
 8. hF mixer
 a. Efficiency of the machine/process is based on the number of batches made and the output generated during 
the particular time of the operation.
 b. The process is automated. The batch cycle time is vary due to the behavior of the material and the equipment. 
Hence the batch cycle time is not defined under the Annexure 1, page 1.
 c. The loading unloading time, drop door open close time and the batch change over times are the only definable 
factors.
 d. the shift plan/no of batches will be provided by the department considering the average cycle time achieved 
and the addition of above c motioned timings as applicable.
 e.  In the event that semi/Auto carbon system is implementing the loading and unloading time mentioned in 
annexure 1 page 1 will be reduced after the discussion and the agreement with union.
 9. mixer No. 3
 a. Mixer No. 03 is under the installation of new mixer. The norms and related requirements will be discussed 
under new equipment finalization procedures.
 10. curing
 a. the entire crew has to be worked on rotation basis in all sections. 
 11. tBr
 a. Newly procured 3 presses are under installation process at the time of Lts signed off.
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.