

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
WIDOWERS’ AND ORPHANS’  PENSION
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 9 OF 2010
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 17th August, 2010]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 5.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 20, 2010

<!-- page 2 -->

1Widowers’ and Orphans’  Pension
(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010
[Certified on 17th August, 2010]
 L.D.—O. 60/2006
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  WIDOWERS ’ AND  ORPHANS ’ PENSION
A CT , NO . 24 OF  1983
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may by cited as the Widowers’   and Orphans’
Pension (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010.
2. The Widowers’  and Orphans’   Pension Act, No. 24
of 1983 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”)
is hereby amended by the insertion immediately after section
9 of that enactment, of the following new sections :—
9
A . (1) Where any officer who is subject to
deductions under this Act dies before reaching
her age of retirement due to any act which
constitutes an offence under the Emergency
Regulations for the time being in force or due
to any natural disaster, the widower and the
children of such officer shall notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Act be entitled—
(a) from the date of such death, to receive
a pension calculated in accordance
with the provisions of this Act, based
on the salary such officer was drawing
at the time of her death, till the date
on which had she lived, such officer
would have reached her age of
retirement ; and
(b) from and after the date on which she
would have reached her age of
retirement, to receive a pension
calculated in accordance with the
provision of this Act based on the
revised salary, with all the
increments to which, had she lived,
2—PL 005040 -4,140 (07/2010)
Short title.
Insertion of new
sections 9A  and
9B  in Act, No.
24 of 1983.
“Payment of
pension to
public
officers &c.,
who die due
to any act
which
constitutes
an offence
under
Emergency
Regulations
&c,.

<!-- page 3 -->

Widowers’ and Orphans’  Pension
(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010
2
such officer would have been
entitled to receive till she reached her
age of retirement.
(2) In calculating the pension for the purpose
of subsection (1), the age of retirement shall be
determined by the Director-General of Pensions,
taking into consideration the circumstances of
the death of the officer concerned, her period
of service, and any other material particulars
as applicable to each individual case.
(3) Where any person who is a female and
who holds a temporary or casual post in the
public service dies while in service due to any
act which constitutes an offence under the
Emergency Regulations or due to any natural
disaster before being made permanent in her
post, such person shall notwithstanding any
other provisions of this Ordinance be deemed
to be an officer to whom the provisons of
section 9 of this Act applies as from  the date of
her death, andthewidower and children of such
person shall notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act, be entitled—
(a) from the date of such death, to receive a
pension calculated in accordance with
the provisons of this Act, based on the
payment such person was drawing at the
time of her death, till the date on which
had she lived, she would have reached
fifty-five years of age ; and
(b) from and after the date on which she
would have reached fifty-five years of
age, to receive a pension with all the
increments to which, had she lived, she
would have been entitled to receive till
she reached fifty-five years of age.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Widowers’ and Orphans’  Pension
(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010
(4) Any person to whom the provisions of
subsection (3) applies shall be deemed to be a
contributor under the Act, as from the date she
joined the public service.
(5) Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this Act, for the purpose of granting a pension
under this section the officers referred to in
subsection (1) of this section and the persons
referred to in subsection (3) of this section shall
be deemed to be constributors as from the date
they joined the public service and shall be
deemed to have paid the contributions due to
the Fund in full, as at the date of their death.
(6) For the purpose of this section—
“emergency regulation” means any
regulation made by the President
under section 5 of the Public
Security Ordinance (Chapter 40) ;
“natural disaster” shall have the same
meaning as in Sri Lanka Disaster
Management Act, No. 13 of 2005.
9
B . Notwithstanding the provisions of
section 9, a widower of any officer—
(a) who is specified in the Schedule GQ
of the Minutes on Pensions ; and
(b) who is entitled to a pension on the
completion of five -years of service,
shall be entitled, on the demise of such officer,
to receive a pension computed on the basis of
the salary drawn by such officer on her
retirement, in accordance with the provisions
Payment of
pension to
widowers of
officers
specified in
Schedule
GQ of
Minutes on
Pensions.

<!-- page 5 -->

Widowers’ and Orphans’  Pension
(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010
4
of this Act. The amount of such contributions
shall be made to the Consolidated Fund with
interest, for the total period of service and
unless and until such contributions are paid
with interest, the payment of pension under
this section shall not commence.”.
3. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in its proviso by the substitution for the words “an
unmarried female orphan” of the words “female orphan.”
4. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed  and  the  following  new  section  substituted
therefor :—
18. (1) The widower of a contributor shall
in his re-marriage receive as pension after the
date of such subsequent marriage—
(a) half the amount of the pension which
he was receiving at the time of such
subsequent marriage ; or
(b) where he was entitled to receive a
pension but was not in actual receipt
of the same, half the amount he was to
receive in his capacity as a widower
prior to such subsequent marriage.
(2) The children of the first marriage of the
widower shall receive the remaining portion
of the pension received by the widower, after
payment to the widower is made in terms of
paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1).
(3) Where the spouse of such subsequent
marriage is a contributor under this Act, and
where such widower becomes entitled to
Amendment of
section 12 of the
principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section 18 of the
principal
enactment.
“Provisions
in case of
widower
remarrying.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Widowers’ and Orphans’  Pension
(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010
receive a pension upon the death of such spouse
in respect of the contributions made to the
Pension Scheme by such spouse, the payment
of such amount as he was receiving as pension
in terms of paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection
(1) shall be terminated with effect from the date
of death of such spouse of such subsequent
marriage :
Provided that, where the payment of the
pension is terminated as provided above, the
children of the first marriage of the widower
shall, as from the date of death of the spouse of
their father’s subsequent marriage, be entitled
to receive the share they were receiving in terms
of subsection (2) and the amount which their
father was receiving in terms of subsection (1),
prior to such termination :
Provided further that, in the event of the
dissolution of such subsequent marriage, the
widower shall be entitled to receive as pension
the half share he received in terms of subsection
(1) and the entitlement of the children under
subsection (2) remains unchanged.”.
5. Section 25 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “any pension
under this Act” of the following :—
“any pension under this Act :
Provided however that in the case of a contributor who
has been retired prematurely due to abolition of post and
who has ceased to make contributions as required by the
Act, such contributor may, if she contracts a marriage before
reaching the age of fifty-five years, be entitled to receive a
pension calculated in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, after paying the entirety of the contributions due, with
interest thereon.”
Amendment of
section 25 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

Widowers’ and Orphans’  Pension
(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010
6
6. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 26 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 26A  of that enactment :—
26 A . A public officer, who being a
contributor to the Pension Scheme and who
leaves the public service prior to reaching her
compulsory age of retirement, having
completed ten or more years of service but not
being eligible to receive a pension, shall not
be eligible to a refund of the entirety or part of
the contributions made by her to the Pension
Scheme. However the widower and orphans of
such public officer shall, upon her death,
become entitled to receive a pension on the
contributions made by her, calculated in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.”.
7. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 31 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 31
A  of that enactment :—
31 A . (1) The Minister may make
regulations in respect of all matters required
by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of
which regulations are authorized to be made
under this Act.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister
shall be published in the Gazette and shall come
into operation on the date of such publication
or on such later date as may be specified therein.
(3) Every regulation shall, as soon as
convenient after publication in the Gazette be
brought before Parliament for approval. Any
regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of
Insertion of new
section 26A  in
the principal
enactment.
“Special
provisions
applicable to
married
public
officers who
are
contributors
and who
leave the
public
service
without
pension.
Insertion of new
section 31
A  in
the principal
enactment.
“Regulations.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Widowers’ and Orphans’  Pension
(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010
such disapproval but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any
regulation made by the Minister is deemed to
be rescinded shall be published in the
Gazette.”.
8. (1) The Provisions of subsection (1) of section 9
A
shall mutatis mutandis apply to the widower and children of
any public officer who had been a contributor to the Pension
Scheme and had died before the date of the coming in
operation of this Act, under the circumatances specified in
the aforesaid subsection.
(2) The provisions of subsection (3) of section 9
A  shall
mutatis mutandis apply to the widower and children of any
person who is a female and had held a temporary or casual
post in the public service and died while in service, before
the date of the coming in operation of this Act, under the
circumstances specified in the aforesaid subsection (3).
(3) Any person to whom the provisions of subsection (2)
of this section applies, shall be deemed to be a contributor
under the principal enactment.
(4) For the purpose of granting of pension under
subsections (1) and (2) of this section, the officers referred to
in subsection (1) and the persons referred to in subsection
(2) of this section shall be deemed to have paid all
contributions due to the Pension Scheme from them, in full,
as at the date of death of each such person.
9. Any widower or any child or children as the case may
be, of any officer or person referred to in section 8 of this Act
shall, on or before the date, to be appointed by the Minister
by Order published in the Gazette, forward their claims to
the Director-General of pensions in such form as may be
prescribed by the Director-General.
Application of
the provisions of
Section 9
A  of the
principal
enactment to
persons who had
died before the
date of
operation of this
Act.
Claims to be
made to the
Director-
General.

<!-- page 9 -->

Widowers’ and Orphans’  Pension
(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010
8
10. The provisions of section 4, 5 and 6 of this Act shall
be deemed to have come into effect as from the date of coming
into operation of the principal enactment.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Retrospective
effect.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Widowers’ and Orphans’  Pension
(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.