

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
863
863
wxl 1"607 - 2009 cqks 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'06'19
No. 1,607 – FRIDAY , JUNE 19, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 866
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 870
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th June, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th June,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 1,606 of 12.06.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
864
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
865
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
866
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  ENVIRONMENT  AND  NATURAL  RESOURCES
Post of Deputy Director (Natural Resources)
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who posses following qualifications for the post of Deputy Director (Natura l
Resources) of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service - Class II - Grade I.
(1) Educational qualifications and Other qualifications :
Applicants should possess the following qualifications :-
(i) A special degree from a recognized University in one of the following disciplines ; Oceanic Environmental Science,
Agriculture, Environment Science, Zoology, Geology, Botany, Forestry, Biological Science, Chemistry or Coast
Conservation ; and
(ii) In addition a Post Graduate degree in the disciplines mentioned above or in the field of Natural Resources ; and
(iii) 10 years experience in the Sri Lanka Scientific Service II/II, with completion of effeciency bar examination ; and
(iv) Successful completion of five(05) years service at the closing date of the application (successful service means the
period of service during which all the salary increments have been earned and no other punishment imposed other
than a warning).
(2) Salary Scale : As per PA Circular 06/2006 in SL 1- 2006, Rs. 22,935 – 10 x 645– 8 x 790 – 17 x 1,050 – Rs. 53,555 is appicable
to Grade III, II and I. Accordingly a salary point of Rs.30,175 upto Rs. 35,705 will be applicable.
(3) Age Limit : Below 45 years as at 19.06.2009 (The age limit will not applicable to employees who are already in the public
service).
(4) Scheme of Recruitment : Selections will be made from the Officers of Sri Lanka Scientific Service by a structural interview
conducted by an Interview Board appointed by Public Service Commission. Marks will be allocated according to the following mark ing
scheme approved by the Public Service Commission :-
i. For any additional educational qualifications - Maximum 25 marks (In addition to basix qualification)
Post Graduate Diploma - 15 Marks
Post Graduate degree - 20 marks
Doctorate - 25 Marks
ii. Service Experience - Maximum 30 marks
(03 marks for every year served above 10 years)
iii. Research and Publications - Maximum 20 marks
Satisfying the following requirements.
(04 marks for such)
a. The Publication should be over 2000 words.
b. The relevant Research and Publication should be in the field of natural resources or in disciplines prescribed in the
scheme of recruitment Para (6) 1.
c. 04 Marks will be allocated to any research work or Publications done independently and only 02 marks for group
research or publication.
iv. Computer literacy and training - Maximum 15 marks
(03 Marks per training course of over 06 months)
v. Performance at the Interview - Maximum 10 marks

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
867
(5) Conditions of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. It will be requried to contribute to Widows and Orphans/Widower and
Orphans Pensions Scheme.
(ii) Paragraph 10 to 12 V olume ii of the Establishment Code will be relevant to this post.
(6) Duly completed applications prepared as per annexed specimen form along with the Bio-data should be submitted to the
Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs, Independence Square, Colombo 07 on or before 17.07.2009 "Post of
Deputy Director (Natural Resources)'' should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
In the event, any information given in the application is found to be false prior to the appointment, his/her candidature will be
cancelled. If such detection is made after the appointment, action will be intiated to dismiss him/her from the service.
By order of Public Service Commission,
D. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration,
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
26th, May 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
M
INISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
APPLICATION FORM FOR THE POST OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR (NATURAL RESOURCES)
For official use only
(SECTION A)
01. Surname with Initials (should be written in English Language) (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :————.
Full Name :————.
02. Address :————.
i. Private :————.
ii. Official :————.
03. National Identity Card No. :————.
04. Date of Birth :————.
Y ear :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
05. Age as at :————.
Years :––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
06. Nationality :————.
07. Civil Status :————.
08. Educational qualifications :————.
i. Degree qualifications :————.
Degree Subjects Passed Year University
General/Class

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
868
ii. Post Graduate Qualification :-
Post Graduate Degree Year of Graduation University
09. Service Experience :––––––––––.
(A service certificate from the Head of the Department should be attached)
10. Any other Qualifications :––––––––––.
11. Reasons to leave the previous employment if attached to a Government Department or Corporation :––––––––––.
12. If found guilty of a criminal offence by a judgement of a Court of Law, state the criminal offence so committed and the punishment
imposed :––––––––––.
13. I certify that all information given in this application is correct. I am fully aware of the fact that in case if I have bee n found guilty
of having provided false information in the application prior to my selection, I shall be deemed to be disqualified or if it reveals after
my appointment, I shall be dismissed from the service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
(SECTION B)
(Recommendation of the Head of the Department of Public/Provincial Council/Organization)
I certify that this application forwarded by Mr./Mrs./Miss.... who serves in the capacity of... in this Department/Ministry/
Provincial Council, and the information provided is true and correct and that his/her work, attendance and conduct is satisfact ory. In the
event he/she is selected for the above post he/she can be released/cannot be released.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department/
Authorised Officer and the Rubber Stamp.
Name :————;
Designation :————;
Address :————;
Date :————.
06-222
SRI  LANKA   POLICE   DEPARTMENT
Vacancies in the Post of Police Constables/Women Police Constables and Police Constable Driver – Special Task
Force Police Constable and Police Constable Driver
AS per the Government Notification No. 1,582 of 26.12.2008 in connection with the above recruitment, the closing date of applic ations
30.06.2009 and applications has been extended Three Months till 30.09.2009.
Inspector General of Police.
06–354

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
869
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths – Galle District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriage Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th July, 2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
29th May, 2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called applications should be sent
Galle Galle Post of Registrar of Birth & Death District Secretary/
Four Gravets Medical for Galle Town Mahamodera Addi. Registrar General
Government Hospital Division District Secretariat, Galle
Galle Galle Post of Registrar of Birth & District Secretary/
Four Gravets Death Medical for Galle Town Addi. Registrar General
East Division District Secretariat, Galle
Galle Thawalama Post of Registrar of Marriages of Hiniduma District Secretary/
Pattuwa Division and Birth & Death Addi. Registrar General
for Habarakada Division District Secretariat, Galle
Galle Bentota Post of Registrar of Marriages of Benthara District Secretary/
Walallawita Koralaya Division and Addi. Registrar General
Birth and Death for Uragaha Division District Secretariat, Galle
Galle Ambalangoda Post of Registrar of Marriages of District Secretary/
Wellaboda Pattuwa Division and Addi. Registrar General
Birth & Death for Batapola Division District Secretariat, Galle
Galle Nagoda Post of Registrar of Marriages of District Secretary/
Gangaboda Pattuwa Division and Addi. Registrar General
Birth and Death for Nagoda Division District Secretariat, Galle.
06-289

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
870
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers belonging to posts of Document Assistants and School Data Entry
Operators recruited under the Ministry of Education - 2009
01. IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination will be held by the Department of Examinations in September, 2009 in
accordance with the approved Schemes of Recruitment relating to the officers belonging to the above Posts.
02.(i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations of the Department of Examinations and the
candidates will be subjected to the rules and regulations stipulated by him relating to the examination conducted.
(ii) Rules and regulations stipulated for the candidates are separately printed in this Gazette. In the event of any candidate
violating these rules and Regulations he/she will be liable to a punishment to be imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations.
(iii) Applications for this examination can be forwarded only by the holders of the Posts of Documents Assistants and School
Data Entry Operators.
03. Applications.– Application should be in conformity with the specimen form appended to this notification. Application
should be prepared by using a A4 size paper with the items 01 to 05 appearing in the first page and the other items in the seco nd page.
Although the application can be typewritten it should be correctly and legibly filled in the candidate's own handwriting. Duly completed
application forms should be sent by the candidates under registered post through their Zonal Director of Education/Head of Depa rtment
addressed to the Secretary, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Pelawatta Battaramulla to be received before 10.07.2009. The name  of the
examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Applications which are not prepared in conformity wi th the
specimen form, applications with incomplete information and applications forwarded without the signature and official frank of the head
of the Department and as well as those received after the closing date of applications will be rejected without any notificatio n. It will be
useful for the applicant to keep a copy of the application with him. Applicant should verify whether the application completed is in
conformity with the specimen form as otherwise application is liable to be rejected. In preparing the application the name of t he
examination indicated in the heading should be written in English in addition to Sinhala in the Sinhala applications and in Eng lish in
addition to Tamil in the Tamil applications.
04. Examination Fees.– Officers who appear for the whole examination should pay a sum of Rs. 300 as examination fees while
those who appear for one subject should pay Rs. 100 to the credit of revenue head 4000-20-03-20-13 in the name of Commissioner
General of Examinations at any District/Divisional Secretary's office and the receipt obtained should be firmly affixed in the place
provided for in the application. It is not necessary for the applicants to pay this examination fee when appearing for the firs t time and
payments should be made as indicated above when they appear thereafter. It will be useful to keep a photo copy of the receipt w ith the
applicant.
05. Identity of the candidates.– Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the Examinatio n
Hall relating to every subject they appear in the examination hall. One of the documents indicated below will be accepted for this purpose.
1. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the Department of Registration of Persons
2. A Valid Passport
Decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the candidature of a candidate who fail to submit the above
documents will be the final decision.
06. An admission card and a copy of the examination time table will be issued by the Commissioner General of examinations to
the candidates whose applications have been accepted. Candidates appearing for the examination should submit their admission card with
their signatures duly attested, to the Supervisor of the examination hall. Permission will not be granted to sit the examinatio n without
submitting this admission card. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the candidates a news paper notification will  be
published to that effect by the Department of Examinations. If the admission card is not received even after thelapse of 2 or 3  days after
the publication of such notice candidates should notify the Department as indicated in the notification. It will be useful to n otify the
Department of Examinations by a letter of request with acertified photo copy of the application kept with the candidate along w ith the
registration receipt indicating a fax nuber to send the admission card when it is outside Colombo.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
871
07. Candidates will be subjected to the rules and regulations stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examinations relating
to this examination. In the event of violating any rules and regulations he will be liable to a punishment imposed by the Commi ssioner
General of Examinations. Duty leave should be allowed by the Heads of Departments to the candidates who have been issued admission
cards by the Commissioner of Examinations to enable them appear for the examination. Traveling expenses will not be paid to the m.
08. Question papers may be answered in the Language medium in which candidates studied or in the official language. The
language medium applied by the candidates cannot be changed later. The Examination will be conducted in only in Sinhala, Tamil and
English mediums.
09. This examination will be held only in Colombo.
10. Examination Procedure :-
(Examination relating to the above posts will consist of the following subjects.)
01. Office Systems : Time 01 hour - 100 marks - 50 Multiple questions
02. Accounting systems : Time 01 hour - 100 marks - Out of five structured questions answers expected for four
questions.
03. Computer Test : Time 01 hour - 100 marks - 50 Multiple questions
11. Syllabus :
(1) Office Systems - (01 hour - 100 marks)
It is expected to test the basic knowledge relating to office systems used in Government Officers and ability for
practical use of such knowledge, ability to properly understand the official documents and thereby submit views/
observations by clear and precise minutes and ability to draft a letter according to the order given.
(2) Accounting Systems- (01 hour) - 100 marks
It is expected to assess the understanding and knowledge in basic accounts used in Government Offices and Cash
Books.
(3) Testing of Computer Literacy - 01 hour multiple question paper.
Officers who have followed the Computer Courses of not less than 06 months Duration in an Institute registered
under the Ministry of Tertiary Education and V ocational Training will be exempted from this test.
The objective of this test is to examine whether the candidates are having the following abilities.
Basic concepts in Information Technology
Windows Operation System
File Management.
Word Processing :
Basic skills, familiarization, text editing
Text alignment, fonts, sub paras, change of space between lines, Tab settings, text serch and placement.
Letters and grammar errors synonyms
Row setting page set up
Document printing Table creation, setting in order
Fine Management
Preparation of a document to be sent to several addresses
Macro Use.
Spread Sheet Basic skills
Formatting
Editing
Columns and ranges new inclusions and deletions
Data preparation in order
Graph setting
Printing
Function
Macro Use, File management

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
872
Introduction of Data Base - Basic skills
Creation and use of data base
Forms
Allied Forms, Popup forms dialogues and message boxes
Queries
Sorting in order
Obtaining reports
Macro use
Internet Introduction of Internet, Worldwide network, path finding Applied Internet
E-mail Mail response
Use of annexures, use of short terms to identify address Message compilation
12. The issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be treated as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications
required to appear for the examination.
13. Candidates can pass the 03 subjects of this efficiency bar test by appearing for the test in one instance or in several instances
and they should obtain a minimum of 40% of the marks for each subject.
14. Regarding any matter for which provisions have not been made by this notification the decision of the Secretary of the
Ministry of Education shall be the final decision.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
'Isurupaya' Battaramulla.
29th May, 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
F
IRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS BELONGING TO POSTS OF DOCUMENT ASSISTANTS AND SCHOOL
DATA ENTRY OPERATORS RECRUITED UNDER THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION - 2009
Index No :
(For Office Use)
Language Medium appearing for the examination :
Please write relevant No. within the cage
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name of candidate with initial at the end :––––––––––.
In English capital letters Ex. : SUNIL, J. M. U.
1.1 Names denoted by initials (In English Capital letters) :––––––––––.
1.2 Name in Full  :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No. :
02. Place of work and address :
2.1 Name of School/NCOE/T.C/Office :––––––––––.
2.2 Official address :––––––––––.
(In English Capital letters)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
873
03. Post held at present :–––––––––.
(Please attach a certified copy of letter of appointment)
3.1 Reference number of letter of appointment :–––––––––.
3.2 Date of appointment :–––––––––.
04. Subjects appearing for :
Subject Subject No.
05. Please affix here the receipt for payment of fees to appear for the examination :
No. :––––––––––. Date :––––––––––.
(For affixing the receipt)
I declare that the details indicated above are correct and that I am entitled to sit the examination in the medium as indicated above
and also I agree to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination relating to this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note : Candidate should sign in the presence of his/her Head of Department or an Officer authorized to sign on his behalf.
CERTIFICATION
Mr./Mrs./Miss ............. who is an officer in my Office/School/College of Education/Training College and who is known to me
signed in my present on ............. 2009 and that the prescribed examination fee have been paid and the receipt for payment w as affixed
hereto.
––––––––––,
Signature and Official frank of the Officer who signed
(Zonal Director of Education President NCOE.)
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department :
I certify that –
1. the details furnished above were verified.
2. a certified copy of letter of appointment is annexed hereto and
3. that the officer is eligible to sit this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature and official frank of the Officer who signed
(Zonal Director of Education President NCOE.)
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
06-327

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
874
SRI  LANKA  DEPARTMENT  OF  RAILWAYS
Recruitment of external candidates to the post of Assistants Superintendent of Railway Protection Force in the Sri
Lanka Department of Railways
APPLICATIONS are invited from male citizens of Sri Lanka to fill only one (01) existing vacancy in the post of Assistant Superintendent
of Railways Protection Force in the Sri Lanka Department of Railways.
02. Nature of the post.– The duties are to be in charge of administration of the Railway Protection Force offices within his area
of authority and Supervision of staff, to prevent corruption, frauds, abuse and commotions erupted in departmental fields, to a ct on the
orders and instructions of the General Manager of Railways and Superintendent of Railway Protection Force including that of the Senior
officers and be responsible to the relevant officers and to comply with any other duties called upon to perform.
03. Applying Procedure.– The application should be prepared by the applicant himself on the specimen form given at the end
of this notification of the size (A4) using both sides of the paper.
(1) The candidates who are in the Public/Corporations/Provisional Public Service should forward their applications through
their Heads of Departments. When forwarding such applications, the Head of Department should certify that the contents
therein are true and accurate.
(2) Duly completed application forms should be sent under registered cover to reach the General Manager of Railways Office
of the General Manager of Railways, Colombo 10 on or before 20.07.2009. The cover should be marked "Recruitment to
the post of Asst. Superintendent of Railway Protection Force" on the top left hand corner. Applications should be
complete in all respect.
(3) Late applications and which are not in conformity with the Gazette Notification  will be rejected without prior notice. Any
complaint regarding the delay of the applications or any correspondence related there to will not be entertained.
(4) The closing date of applications is 20th July, 2009.
04. Salary Scale. —Rs. 19,465 - 325 x 17 - Rs. 24,665 monthly (As per P. A. circular No. 06/2006) (Should pass the 1st
Efficiency Bar examination within 03 years of appointment to the post)
05. Age Limit.—Should be between 18-45 years of age. The officers in Public/Provincial Public Service should not be more than
50 years of age.
06. Educational qualifications :
1. Degree of a recognized University
07. Other Qualifications :
(1)  Height : 5 feet 6 inches (5' 6'') without shoes,
(2) Eye sight : should have an eye sight of A2 standard without glasses (subject to passing to vision tests LB 29),
(3) Chest : 34 inches with healthy physique and good personality,
(4) Competence in sports will be considered as an addes qualification,
(5) Professional qualification will be considered as an additional qualification.
08. Method of recruitment. – The candidates should appear for a competitive test and those who obtain highest mark at the
written test ––––––––––– will be summoned before an Interview Board. The candidates who obtained the highest total marks both at the
written test and the viva voce test will only be selected for filling of the vacancy.
09. Syllabus :
1. (i) This is a written examination
(ii) There are two question papers
2. I. Intelligence Test - 1 1/4 hours - 100 marks

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
875
A question paper of multiple choice to assess the candidate's logical reasoning and his ability to take decisions and analytica l
thinking.
II. Comprehension and General knowledge - Duration 02 hours - 100 marks
Comprehension.– A number of short passages will be provided to the candidates by this question paper. Certain passages are
given to write out the meaning in one sentence. In certain other passages, a number of alternative statements are given and the candidates
are expected to select the most appropriate statement. Few questions will be raised in certain passages and the candidates are expected
to provide the correct answer. This question paper is to assess the understanding power of the candidates. In addition, somewha t a long
passage will be given for precise writing.
General knowledge.– A general question paper to test the candidates knowledge on matters relating to information technology,
his living and serving environment inclusive of Sri Lanka political, social, cultural and economical environment and on current affairs of
national and international importance inclusive of scientific and technical development.
3. To qualify candidates should score 40 marks in each paper.
10. Terms of Engagement :
1. The post is permanent and pensionable.
2. Sections 12:1, 12:3 and from 12:6 to 12:12 of Chapter II of the Establishment Code will apply.
3. Selected candidates will be subject to a probationry period of three (3) years.
4. You should conform to the provisions of Ch. 4 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and
to the provisions of the Official Languages Policy of the Government and any other laws, rules that now exist or may
be introduced in the future to give effect to the Language Policy of the state.
5. The appointment will be subject to the provisions of the Establishment Code, Railway Ordinance, Railway Departmental
Instructions, Security Rules  relating to the operation of trains, relevant Standing Orders of the Railway Protection
Force and other security requirements inclusive of supervision of any terrorist activities and orders that may be issued
from time to time by the General Manager of Railways and Head of the Railway Protection Force on behalf of the
General Manager of Railways.
6. Every officer should pass the prescribed departmental examination prior to his confirmation in the post.
7. Selected candidates should serve in any part of the Island.
8. Should pass the physical and aptitude test conducted yearly.
9. Reference is requested to the general conditions applicable to appointments in the state service advertised in Part - I,
Section (IIA) of the Gazette.
11. Examination Fees .– A non-refundable fee for Rs. 250 will be levied for this examination. This amount can be paid by a
Money Order written in favour of the "General Manager of Railways indicating the paying-in-office as Maradana Post Office (0100 0)"
and the Money Order should be attached to the application. No copies of same should be attached other than the original. "Post of Asst.
Supdt. of Protection Force (External)" should be marked on top left hand corner of the envelope. Containing the application dul y
completed and should be sent under registered cover to reach the General Manager of Railways on or before 20th July, 2009.
12. Certification of the Signature of the applicant.– The Signature of the applicant should be certified by the Principal of a School
or Justice of the Peace or Commissioned of officer of the three armed services or a permanent public servant/officer of the Pro vincial
public service drawing a monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 19,775 or more.
P. P. W
EJESEKARA,
General Manager of Railways.
File No. : 09/692/87(III)
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Sri Lanka Railways,
Colombo 10.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
876
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
For office use only
SRI LANKA DEPARTMENT OF RAILWAYS
COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF RAILW AY PROTECTION FORCE (EXTERNAL)
01. Name with initials :
(i) Sinhala/Tamil :———.
(ii) English :———.
02. Name denoted by initials :
(i) Sinhala/Tamil :———.
(ii) English :———.
03. Permanent Address :
(i) Sinhala/Tamil :———.
(ii) English :———.
04. Sex : (Mark 3 in relevant cage) :-
Female Male
05. Residence :
(i) Grama Niladhari Division and No. :———.
(ii) Divisional Secretary's Division :———.
(iii) District :———.
06. Ethnic group (Mark 3  in the relevant cage) :
Sinhala Indian Tamil
Sri Lanka Tamil Burgher
Muslim Malays
Others
07. Medium in which the candidate is sitting the examination (Mark 3in the relevant cage) :
Sinhala Tamil English
08. Citizenship : (mark 3 in the relevant cage) :
By descent By registration
09. Date of Birth :
(i) Year :––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 20.07.2009:– Years :––––––––––.  Months :––––––––––.  Days :––––––––––.
10. (i) Height :–  Feet  :––––––––––. Inches :––––––––––.
(ii) Chest :––––––––––.
11. National Identity Card Number :———.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
877
12. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (O/L) Exam :
Year of exam passed :–––––––––.
First Sitting Second Sitting
Year : .................... ........................
Index Number : .................... ........................
Subject Grade Grade
(i) .................................. .................................. ..................................
(ii) .................................. .................................. ..................................
(iii) .................................. .................................. ..................................
(iv) .................................. .................................. ..................................
(v) .................................. .................................. ..................................
(vi) .................................. .................................. ..................................
(vii) .................................. .................................. ..................................
(viii) .................................. .................................. ..................................
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) Exam :–
Index Number :––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
(i) .................................... ..............................
(ii) .................................... ..............................
(iii) .................................... ..............................
(iv) .................................... ..............................
Degree obtained :––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––.
University :––––––––––.
13. Other Educational Qualifications :———.
14. Sports Qualifications :———.
15. Other Qualifications :———.
16. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of law. If so, give details :
Yes N o
17. Declartion of the applicant –
(A) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified. I
personally bear the consequences there to.
(B) I am also aware that of any particular contained hear in are toured to the false after the appointment. I am liable to
dismissal from viva. I personally bear the consequences thereto.
(C) Money Order No.––––––––– obtained after payment of Rs. 250 is attached hereto.
I agree to abide by the above conditions.
—–––––——,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2009
878
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
18. Employer's declaration :
Application of Mr. ................. who is working in this office is attached hereto duly certified. No disciplinary proceedings against him
have been reported, His work/conduct/attendance are satistactory. In case he is selected to the said post on the results of the  above
examination he could/couldn't be released from this institute.
Signature of Head of Department :———.
Designation :———.
Official Seal :———.
19. Certifying the signature of applicant :
The applicant Mr. ................. is known to me very well. He placed his signature in may presence.
———–––––––––,
Signature of Officer Certifying.
Date :———.
Full Name of Certifying Officer :———.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
(Please use the Official seal)
06-368