

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
w;s úfYI
wxl 2200$6 - 2020 fkdjeïn¾ ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'11'06
No. 2200/6 - FRIDAY   NOVEMBER   06,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  5211— 42 (11/2020)
WESTERN    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
The notification made under Section 154 of the Urban Councils Ordinance read with Section 2 of the Provincial
Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989
I, Roshan Goonetileke, the Governor of Western Province, by virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 154 of
Urban Councils Ordinance read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of
1989, do hereby declare that Bylaw relating to Procedure for the Conduct of Business at Meetings of the Urban
Council, drafted by the Ja-Ela Urban Council under Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance read with Section 157
of the same Ordinance has received my assent.
R
OSHAN GOONETILEKE ,
RWP and BAR VSV
USP PHD FIM (Sri Lanka) NDC PSC
Marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force
Governor, Western Province.
At the Office of the Governor of Western Province,
Western Provincial Council Building,
No. 204, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, Battaramulla,
On 05th November 2020,

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
2A
BYLAW  RELATING*  TO  PROCEDURE  FOR  THE  CONDUCT  OF  BUSINESS
AT  URBAN  COUNCIL  MEETINGS
1. These bylaws shall be enforced to regularize the procedure for conducting business at meetings
and Committee meetings of Urban Council.
2. This bylaw may be cited as the Bylaw relating to Procedure for the Conduct of Business at Meetings
of Ja - Ela Urban Council.
3. The Urban Council shall, subjected to the provisions stated in the initial  law, be held on every
calendar month on a day and time pre-determined by it at the office of the Urban Council. If that day
falls on a Public Holiday, then such meeting shall be convened on the next available working day.
4. A notice for convening an Ordinary Meeting of Urban Council, along with the agenda relevant to
such meeting shall be handed over by the Chairman to every member of Urban Council prior to four
days of such meeting excluding Saturdays. Sundays and Public Holidays. In the event of failure to
personally hand over the notice specified under this Section, leaving it at the place where the
member usually resides at shall be considered as a proper handing over of the notice.
However, where the Council has decided that convening of the Council and handing over of
documents should be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address
confirmed by every member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the
Secretary, the notice under this Section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant to
it being forwarded to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time,
shall be considered as a legal handing over.
5. A notice for convening a Special Meeting of Urban Council having  included the proposition or
propositions requiring to be decided at the said Special Meeting shall be handed over to every
member of the Council prior to two days of the date such meeting has been scheduled to. Else,
should be left at the place of residing.
However, where the Council has decided that convening of the Council and handing over of
documents should be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address
confirmed by every member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the
Secretary, the notice under this Section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant to
it being forwarded to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time, shall
be considered as a legal handing over.
6. (1) The quorum of an Ordinary Meeting or a Special Meeting shall be one- third of the number of
members holding positions to that date. In every occasion the Chair observes that the Council
is lacking quorum, or any member draws attention of the Chair to that matter, having suspended
the affairs of the Council, the Chair shall order the summoning bells to be rung. If the quorum
is not achieved within 5 minutes of such action being taken, the Council shall be postponed
to some other time.
(2) When the whole Council has converted to a Committee of the Whole Council, it shall consist
of the required quorum and provisions stated in the above Section (1) shall be applicable in
the same manner in case of occasions where such quorum is absent.
7 (1) If the quorum of the Council failed to achieve alter termination of thirty minutes of its
summoning, such meeting shall he postponed to whatever time ordered by the Chair.
Ordinary
Meeting
Special Meeting
Quorum
Postponement
due to absence
of quorum

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
(2) If any meeting postponed by the Chair under this Section lacked quorum to assemble within 24
hours subsequent to postponement of that meeting, the time of which has been calculated
from its first postponement, such meeting should be adjourned to another date. The Council
adjourned thus, shall be assembled again on a date not exceeding 15 days of its adjournment
for the agenda of the adjourned meeting. The notice for summoning the adjourned meeting
shall be handed over to all the members or left at their residence three days prior to the
scheduled date excluding Saturdays. Sundavs and Public Holidays.
However, where the Council has decided that convening of the Council and handing over of
documents should be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address
confirmed by every member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the
Secretary, the notice under this Section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant
to it being forwarded to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time,
shall be considered as a legal handing over.
8. An Ordinary or Special Meeting of Council in quorum may be suspended from time to time according
to the agreement of Council. Except the affairs not attended in the Agenda of such suspended
meeting, no other affair shall be attended at a suspended meeting. A suspended meeting shall
assemble at a date not expiring fifteen days from the date of suspension and complete the agenda,
wherein the notice for summoning such meeting shall be handed over to all the members three days
prior to the scheduled date excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holiday s. else, shall be left at
their residence.
However, where the Council has decided that convening of the Council and handing over of documents
should be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address confirmed by
every member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the Secretary, the
notice under this Section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant to it being forwarded
to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time, shall be considered as a
legal handing over.
9. For all purposes connected with precedence and seniority of members of the Council, the precedence
order of Chairman, Deputy Chairman, successive re-elected members according to the consecutive
seniority of the party or independent group elected to that Council and when consecutive seniority
becomes equal, the order stated in the Election Commissioner’s or Returning Officer’s declaration,
and in the absence of consecutive seniority, precedence order of Elections Commissioner’s or
Returning Officer’s declaration shall be taken into consideration.
10. (1) Every member including Chairman. Deputy Chairman participating in Ordinary Meeting, Special
Meeting or Committee Meeting if male, shall be dressed in his National Costume or European
Suit and if female, shall be dressed in her National Costume.
(2) Where there is an accepted official robe for the Chairman, he shall preside dressed in that
official robe.
(3) The official robe for the Chairman shall be made in the manner Council decides.
11. Visitors including electronic and print media reporters shall take up places in the meeting hall allocated
for each of them. However, on a matter opportune, if decided by the majority of members present at
the day’s meeting, by way of a resolution passed at the Council that removal of them from the
Chamber would be good for public welfare and the Chair requests for such vacation. they shall leave
the Chamber.
Adjournment of
meetings
Order of
Precedence
Visitor’s
attendance

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
4A
Nevertheless, no hindrance shall be caused by this section to officers summoned by the
Chairman to accomplish duties, to remain in the Chamber.
12. The business of the Council shall be transacted in the following order.
(a) Confirmation of the minutes of previous Council meeting
(b) Announcements made by the Chairman
(c) Motions on permission of leave
(d) Presentation of memorandums, petitions, complaints
(a) Questions of which due notice has been given
(b) Motions of which due notice has been given
(c) Review on reports of Committee Meetings
(d) Reviewing on monthly statements relating to receipts and disbursements of the Council
(e) Matters included into agenda having further decided by the Council.
13. (1) Minutes that include all the proceedings and orders of the Council meeting shall be maintained
by the Secretary of the Urban Council in a record book in the medium Council affairs lake
place.
(2) Minutes of each calendar month’s meeting shall he included into the Agenda of the successive
month’s ordinary meeting and along with the notice for convening the said meeting; it shall
be handed over to all the members as if the convening notice is handed over.
(3) At the succeeding meeting the question shall be put that the minutes be taken as read and
confirmed and if there are any corrections to amendments only, having considered such, the
minutes shall be confirmed and deemed as adopted.
14. (1) The Chairman may present notifications relevant to his subject-field relating to matters which
he thinks important to be brought up into Council’s notice.
(2) No opportunity will be there for any member to speak on matters in the notifications made
thus or debate on matters containing in such statement.
(3) The statements made by the Chairman under this Section shall comply with the subject of
Local Government and such statement shall not prejudice any member.
15. (1) Any member, when he is unable to participate in Council meetings on justifiable reasons, may
make a written request to Chairman asking for Permission for Leave by himself or through
other member.
(2) A motion in that regard may be moved by the Chairman or by other member on permission of
the Chair and Permission for I cave will be granted by the adoption of the motion.
16. (1) Every memorandum, petition or complaint presented to the Council  of  shall relate to a matter
relevant to the subject field of the Local  Government Authority.
(2) Every memorandum, petition, complaint shall address either the Council or Chairman and
should he composed in dignified language.
Order of business
Adopting the
Minutes
Announcement
by Chairman
Permission for
leave
Presentation of
memorandums,
petitions,
complaints

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
(3) Every memorandum, petition, complaint shall clearly carry the date of signing and personal
address of the person presenting it. Further, it shall be written in legible handwriting and relief
expected thereby should be mentioned clearly.
(4) If there are any documents to confirm the matters stated in the memorandum, petition or
complaint; their certified copies shall be attached to the petition.
(5) Matters such as the ones pending in a court of law or in any such institution meting out justice,
or a matter that has already been forwarded for arbitration shall not be presented thus.
(6) No member may present a memorandum, petition or complaint on his behalf.
(7) Any member presenting a memorandum, petition or complaint shall limit his speech to “Hon.
Chairman, l shall hereby present the memorandum petition / complaint made by  ...............Residing
at No . ............. in relation to the matter of  ........................” and no providence shall be allowed
for a debate on that matter.
(8) Whenever a memorandum, petition, complaint is presented by a member, any other member
may propose it to be read out. However, the reasons as to why the motion should be read out
at the time of its presentation need to be expressed.
(9) When a motion has been presented under the above Sub-section (8), such memorandum,
petition, complaint shall be read out by the member who presented it only after it has been
seconded wherein no member shall speak with regard to that.
17. (1) It shall be lawful for a memorandum, petition, complaint presented under Section 16 to be
forwarded to a suitable committee by the Chairman and decide future action based on a report
obtained from the said committee, or take measures to examine evidence with regard to a
complaint requiring appropriate investigation, or take measures to solve the problem when it
relates to a matter solvable by the Chairman.
(2) When the Chairman intends to inquire evidences from any witnesses, it shall be lawful to
inform the petitioner, complainant by the Chairman to forward to Secretary a list, at least prior
to three days ol the date fixed for examining evidences, containing those witnesses names,
places of residence, occupations by the petitioner requiring those witnesses.
18. (1) Questions relating to the affairs of the Council mas be asked from the Chairman.
(2) Having prepared the relevant questions in writing, the member intending to forward the question
shall handover the questions to Secretary prior to seven days of the date scheduled to hold
the Council meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays, in order to be included
into the agenda . Else, the motion should have been forwarded to the electronic mail address
accepted by the Council to forward motions and assigned to members for the same purpose.
(3) Questions received by the Secretary shall be included into the agenda in the order they have
been received.
(4) Not more than one question shall be accepted to the agenda from a member for one Council
meeting.
(5) A written response relevant to each question shall be read out by the Chairman at the meeting.
Questions
presented
expecting verbal
responses from
the Chairman

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
6A
(6) A member shall not address the Council on any motion, and even expression of opinion or
presentation of facts shall not be included.
(7) A supplementary question may only be presented by the member who raised the question or
any other member for the purpose of further explanation of a matter or incident for which a
response has been given in the Council.
(8) The right to raise questions in the Council by a member shall be confined to the following
limits.
(a) A question shall be limited to one subject
(b) Unless a name compulsorily required for the clarity in explanation of a problem, no
other name or statement shall be mentioned in the question.
(c) An argument, presumed decision, attributed allegation, a phrase detailing unnecessary
information, or defamatory phrase shall not be included into the question.
(d) If a question carries a statement. the member raising the question should have been
satisfied as to the accuracy of the statement.
(e) Questions under a point of laws relating to a matter pending before courts of law shall
not be raised.
19. (1) Every motion shall be written and carry the signature of the member   presenting it. Unless the
relevant motion, along with a request for  inclusion of it in the agenda has been submitted to
the Secretary prior to 07 days excluding Saturday, Sundays and Public Holidays from the date
scheduled for the Council meeting or forwarded to the electronic mail address assigned,
relevant motions shall not be included into the agenda.
(2) All the notices received relating, to motions shall be date-stamped in the order they were
received and numbered according to time they were received and documented.
(3) Prior to including a motion into the agenda it needs to be submitted to the Chairman and if the
Chairman is in the opinion that the relevant motion is inconsistent with the written law or
relates to a matter non- authorized by the written law to he decided by the Council, he shall
order the relevant motion to be not included in the agenda and inform of such non-inclusion
to the member who presented the motion with reasons for rejection.
(4) Every motion presented shall relate to a matter allowed by the written law to take a relevant
decision by the Council.
(5) A motion presented with the intention of repealing any resolution which has been passed
within the preceding six months to the date the Council is scheduled to meet, or a motion
yielding the same effect as any motion which has been negated within the preceding six
months to the date the Council is scheduled to meet shall not be included into the agenda
unless it carries the signatures of four other members in addition to the signature of the
member presenting the motion and the facts of which is mentioned in the heading specifically.
Subsequent to transacting proper business relating to the said motion, no member shall have
power to move a motion similar to that within the period of next six months.
(6) No motion, unless proposed by other member on permission of the member presenting the
motion and seconded, shall be deemed as submitted for debate.
Motion of which
due notice has
been given

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
(7) Any member may, at the latter part of the debate, having risen from his seat and addressing the
Chair shall second the relevant motion subject to his right to speech and his right to reach into
whatever decision relating to the vote-taking on the motion.
(8) If any member intends to present a motion to the Council of that day relating to compulsory
matters requiring immediate attention and which has not been informed beforehand, unless
such motion has been written, signed and submitted along with a request made to the Chairman,
the Chair shall not allow any such motion to be proposed, if it has not been included into the
agenda.
(9) Every motion relating to recommendations included in the reports of Committees which have
been tabled at the Council shall be included into the agenda and proposed to the Council by
the Chairman.
20. Any motion or amendment presented by a member to the Council may be withdrawn by that member
on the permission of Council. Such permission shall be devoid of a debate.
21. A motion withdrawn may be presented again to the agenda of a successive meeting.
22. (1) A member expecting to present an amendment to a motion shall have prepared the amended
motion in writing and handed over to the Secretary.
(2) Every amendment shall relate to the motion in discussion at the time of presenting such
motion.
(3) Every amendment-motion shall be read out before proposing it to the Council.
(4) No amendment-motion unless seconded shall be subjected to discussion.
(5) A member, who has got an amendment properly seconded, shall be allowed consequently to
speak with regard to that matter.
(6) When an amendment has been proposed to a motion under discussion and seconded, second
or subsequent amendments shall not be proposed unless proper action has been taken with
regard to the first amendment. If an amendment got adopted, the amended-motion shall take
the place of the initial motion and if there are further amendments, it shall relate to the said
amended motion.
23. Prior to presenting at the Council a budget document or a Council approval supplementary budget
document which has been prepared by the Chairman under Section 178 of  Urban Councils Ordinance
(Chapter 255), each subject ol the draft budget document or supplementary budget document shall
be considered separately at a combined committee meeting assembled for that purpose.
24. Considering the matters presented at the Combined Committee meeting, a final budget document or
a Supplementary budget Document prepared by the Chairman shall be presented to the Council by
the Chairman.
25. Every subject of a budget document or a supplementary budget document presented to the Council
should be considered separately and all the subjects or any subject considered thus may be amended
minimally, rejected or supplemented with any subject by the Council and every such amendment,
Withdrawal of
motions
Presenting again
a motion that
has been
withdrawn
Amending a
motioin
Council
approval
relating to
budget
documents

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
8A
rejection or subject-supplementation shall be executed as an amendment to the budget document
or supplementary budget document, whereas all the provisions relating to amendments in this
bylaw shall be applicable therein.
Even so, where all the subjects or any one subject of the budget document or supplementary
budget document presented by the Chairman will be rejected by the Council, in place of such
rejected subject or subjects, alternative subjects shall be proposed and passed by the Council in
conformation to the provisions of the written law.
26. To the disagreement of the Chairman, when the majority of the Council enjoying voting rights have
decided minor amendments, rejections or subject-supplementations to all the subjects or any
subject of the budget document or supplementary budget document proposed for adoption by the
Chairman, such budget document or supplementary budget document shall be presented again by
Chairman at a successive Council meeting for adoption.
27. No member may speak at a meeting to any motion or question after it has been fully put by the
Chairman of the meeting. A motion or question is fully put when the voting has been taken thereon.
28. (1) The question shall be put by the Chairman of the meeting, and the Council may express its
consent by a show of hands, else, any member shall call for a division and in that event the
votes shall be taken by the Secretary asking each member separately according to the order
of precedence, how he desires to vote and recording the vote accordingly.
(2) On any question being put either in Council, or in Committee of the Whole Council, every
member present shall, unless he declines to vote record his vote either for the ayes or the
noes.
(3) In the event of a member declining to vote, when a division has been called for, the Secretary
shall enter his name upon the minutes as having declined to vote.
(4) Unless it has been facilitated to take vote under a secret ballot with regard to a specific
appropriate matter stated in the written law, vote shall be recorded by asking each member
separately with regard to every other matter.
29. (1) Committee reports included in the Agenda and presented along with the agenda may be
reviewed separately by the ordinary meeting.
(2) For the purpose of reviewing the committee reports. Council meeting may convert to a
Committee of the Whole Council as decided by the Council according to the provisions of
the bylaw.
30. (1) Reports on Council’s revenue and expenditure of the preceding month and reports on the
progress of revenue from January to the previous month, expenditure from January to the
previous month should be reviewed by Council according to the annual budget document.
(2) For business transaction of this Section, the Council may convert to a Committee of the
Whole Council.
(3) Monthly statements relating to receipts and payments. progress reports on work and other
documents specified by Council may be presented to the Council for this purpose.
31. (1) Businesses included into the agenda after having decided by the Council, shall be completed
by it in the same order they have been included into the agenda.
Cessation of
dabate
V oting and
recording of
votes1
Committee
report reviewing
Considering
revenue and
expenditure
reports

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
(2) Whatever a matter not conforming to the order specified in the agenda of the Council shall not
be considered by the Council under this Section.
32. (1) The Chairman shall have an original vote in common with the other members of the Urban
Council and also a casting vote if upon any question an equality of vote results.
(2) When the Urban Council is in a Committee of the Whole Council, as provided under this bylaw,
the Chairman shall have an original vote in common with the other members and also a casting
vote if upon any question an equality of vote results.
33. It shall be competent for any member, who is in a minority, to record the reasons for his dissent from
the opinion on of the majority, and such written dissent, if sent to the Secretary, within one week of
the meeting in question, shall be entered by the Secretary at the end of his minutes of the proceedings.
34- Unless resolved that the order of the day’s proceedings of the Urban Council be otherwise, the
business shall be discussed in the order specified in the agenda.
35. (1) It shall be the duty of the chairman of a given meeting to preserve order, and his decision on all
disputes and points of order shall be final.
(2) Any member of the Urban Council deviating from these regulations at a meeting may immediately
called to order by the Chairman of the meeting through his own motion or by any other member
of the Urban Council rising to a point of order.
36. When the question of order has been slated, the member who raises it shall resume his seat, and no
other member except by leave of the Chairman or presiding Councilor of the meeting shall speak till
the Chairman has decided the question. After which the member who was addressing the Urban
Council or Committee of the Urban Council at the time of question was raised shall be entitled to
proceed with his speech, if he conforms to the Chairman’s ruling or ruling of the
Committee of the Council. If he does not conform, the Chairman may refuse to allow him to proceed
with his speech.
37. Any member who fails to explain or to retract any objectionable words used by him or to offer
apologies for the use thereof to the satisfaction of the Urban Council may be censured or otherwise
dealt with as the Urban Council thinks fit.
38. When the Chairman of a meeting has expressed his desire to speak, any member then speaking shall
immediately resume his seat.
39. (I) The Chairman of a meeting may name any member who disregards the authority of the Chair, or
abuses the provisions of these bylaws of the Urban Council by persistently and willfully
obstructing the business of the Urban Council, and the chairman may forthwith put the question
on a motion being made by any member or from the Chair (no amendment, adjournment or
debate being allowed) “that such member be suspended from the service of the Urban Council”.
(2) If any such motion be carried and any member be suspended under this section, this suspension
on the first occasion shall continue for one month, on the second occasion for two months,
and on the third or subsequent occasion for three months.
(3) Not more than one member shall be named the same lime, unless several members present
together have jointly disregarded the authority of the Chair.
Casting V ote of
Chairman
Members
dissenting
Order of the day
Preservation of
Order
Decision on
questions of
Order
Member not
explaining or
retracting
procedure
When Chairman
speaks

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
10A
(4) If any member or members acting jointly who have been suspended under this rule from the
service of the Urban Council shall refuse at any time during the period of suspension to obey
the directions of the Chairman of a meeting to withdraw from the precincts of the Urban
Council Chamber, the Chairman may direct such step be taken as are required to enforce his
decision.
40. The Chairman of a meeting, after having called attention to the conduct of a member who persists
in irrelevance or tedious repetition, either of his own arguments or of the arguments used by
members in debate, may direct the member to discontinue his speech.
41. (1) The Chairman of a meeting may order members whose conduct is grossly disorderly to
withdraw immediately from the Urban Council Chamber during the remainder of that day’s
sitting and may direct such steps to be taken as are required to enforce his order.
(2) If on any occasion the Chairman of a meeting deems that his powers under this are
inadequate he may name such member or members in pursuance of the provisions of
Section 39.
42. Members who are suspended under this rule or are directed to withdraw shall forthwith withdraw
from the precincts of the Urban Council Chamber.
43. An adjournment of the discussion of any question may be moved by a member at any time and if
seconded, shall be forthwith put to the vote. In the event of a grave disorder arising at a
meeting, the Chairman of the meeting may, if he thinks it necessary to do so. adjourn the meeting
without putting the question of adjournment to the Urban Council or suspend the meeting for a
time to be named by him.
44. In speaking to any preposition under consideration of the Urban Council or a committee of the
whole Council the following rules shall be strictly observed
(a) Every member shall at a meeting except in  committee address his observations to the Chairman
of the meeting and shall speak standing.
(b) No member shall be interrupted while he is speaking unless he is speaking out of order.
(c) When any member concludes his observations he shall resume his seat and any other member
wishing to address the Urban Council may then speak.
(d) A member shall not read his speech, but he may read extracts from written or printed papers
in support of his arguments.
(e) If two members speak or desire to speak at the same time at a meeting the Chairman of the
meeting shall call on the member who first catches his eye.
(f) Every member shall confine his observations to the subject under consideration.
(g) No member shall impute improper motives to any other member.
(h) All remarks of a personal nature shall be avoided.
(i) A member shall speak to the question before the Urban Council or any amendment proposed
thereto.
Irrelevance or
Tedious
Repetition
Disorderly
Conduct
Duty to obey
order of
suspension or
withdrawal
Power to
Adjourn
Rule for
members’
speaking

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
(j) No member shall speak more than once on any proposition before the Urban Council except
in explanation to order, or when the Urban Council is in committee.
(k) By the indulgence of the Urban Council, a member may explain matters of a personal nature,
although there is no question before the Council, but such matters may not be debated and
he must confine himself strictly to the vindication of his own conduct.
(1) The mover of any resolution or motion may reply after all the members present have had an
opportunity of addressing the Urban Council and before the question is put but he shall
strictly confine himself to answering previous speakers, and shall not introduce any new
matter into the debate. The right to reply shall not extend to the mover of an amendment.
45. The Urban Council may at an\ time resolve itsell into a Committee of the Whole Council and on it is
resuming the result of its deliberations shall be dealt with by the Urban Council
It shall be competent for any member at any stage of any discussion in a Committee of the whole
Urban Council to move that the Urban Council to resume.
The question shall be put to the vote by the Chairman of the Committee and, if the motion is
carried, the Urban Council must immediately resume from Committee.
46. (1) The Urban Council shall appoint such Advisonry Commitiees subject to the provisions stated
in the original written law.
(2) No such Committee shall take any proceeding alter the expiration of the period for which it
has been appointed.
(3) The Chairman of Urban Council shall be the ex-officio Chairman of a Financial and Policy
Committee appointed by the Urban Council.
(4) The quorum for the meetings of every such Committee shall be one- third of the number of
members of the committee in office on the date of the meeting. When one-third of such number
is an integer and fraction, the integer immediately higher to that integer and fraction shall be
deemed to be one-third for the purpose of this rule.
(5) In the occasion where a combined meeting is held with the Committee on Finance appointed by
the Urban Council, the Chairman of Urban Council shall chair the combined meeting and
convening of a combined meeting should be carried out by the Chairman.
(6) Unless there is a one third of quorum present at a combined committee meeting that comprises
two committees or more than that and unless one member of each committee in the combined
meeting has made their presence, no proceedings shall take place at such a combined committee
meeting.
(7) In the absence of the Chairman at a meeting of any Committee, the members shall choose one
of their members to preside, and such member shall for that meeting have all the powers of the
Chairman.
(8) When a Committee shall have agreed to a report, the report shall be signed by all the
members thereof and shall together with the minutes of proceedings, be submitted to the
Urban Council.
(9) The electronic and print media shall be excluded from all meetings of Advisory Committees.
Conversion of
Council into
Committee of
the Council
Advisory
Committee

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'06
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.11.2020
12A
47 All members shall record their attendance when they attend meetings of the Urban Council or
Committee, in an Attendance Register maintained by the Secretary for this purpose and kept in his
custody.
48. Unless other interpretation relating to text is required, in this bylaw.
“Council” means the Urban Council of Ja - ela established under the
Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255),
“Chairman” means the Chairman appointed to Urban Council of Ja - Ela
“Advisory Committee” means all the Committees appointed under the Urban Councils
Ordinance (Chapter 255)to advice the Council.
49. In case of any inconsistency between Sinhala and English/Tamil texts  of this bylaw, Sinhala text
shall prevail.
Attendance
Inconsistency
among texts
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.