

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 36.50  Postage  :  Rs.12.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 02, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 30th November, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
TOURISM
ACT,  No.  38  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 1
[Certified on 30th November, 2005]
L.D.—O 18/2005
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  SRI LANKA  TOURISM
D EVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY ; TO  VEST  THE  SAID  AUTHORITY  WITH  SUCH
POWERS  AS  ARE  NECESSARY  FOR  FACILITATING  THE  PLANNING  AND
IMPLEMENTATION  OF  THE  POLICY  RELATING  TO  THE  TOURISM  INDUSTRY
AND  OTHER  RELATED  INDUSTRIES ; TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  REGULATION
AND  MONITORING  OF  THE  INDUSTRY ; TO  REPEAL  THE  CEYLON  TOURIST
B OARD  ACT , NO . 10 OF  1966 AND  TO  REPEAL  CERTAIN  PROVISIONS
OF  THE  TOURIST  DEVELOPMENT  ACT , NO . 14 OF  1968; AND  TO
PROVIDE  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL
THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Tourism  Act,  No. 38 of
2005 and shall come into operation on such date as the
Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette
(hereinafter referred to as “the appointed date”).
PART I
C HAPTER  I
SRI LANKA  TOURISM  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY
2. (1) There shall be established for the purposes of this
Act, an Authority called the Sri Lanka Tourism Development
Authority (hereinafter referred to as “the Authority”).
(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1) be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.
(3) The seal of the Authority shall be kept in the custody
of the Authority and may be altered in such manner as may be
determined by the Authority.
Short title and
date of operation.
Establishment of
the Sri Lanka
Tourism
Development
Authority.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(4) The seal of the Authority shall be affixed to all
instruments signed by or on behalf of the Authority, in the
presence of the Chairman and two members of the Authority
who shall sign such document in token thereof.
3. The objectives of the Authority shall be—
(a) to develop Sri Lanka as a tourist and travel
destination both in Sri Lanka and abroad;
(b) to advise the Minister in charge of the subject of
Tourism on matters relating to travel and the tourism
industry, within the policy formulated by the
Cabinet of Ministers, in relation to this sector;
(c) to provide guidance to the Sri Lanka Tourism
Promotion Bureau to develop, promote and market
Sri Lanka as a tourist and travel destination both in
Sri Lanka and abroad;
(d) to provide guidance to the Sri Lanka Institute of
Tourism and Hotel Management to undertake human
resource training and development activities;
(e) to work towards the enhancement of the tourism
and travel sectors in order to secure a contribution
for the expansion and development of Sri Lanka’s
economy;
(f) to develop and promote adequate, attractive and
efficient tourist services, inclusive of the hospitality
industry in a sustainable manner;
(g) to license and accredit tourist enterprises in order to
develop, enforce and maintain locally and
internationally accepted standards in relation to the
tourism industry and other related industries;
(h) to encourage persons or bodies of persons in the
private sector to participate in the promotion of the
tourism industry and the promotional and training
activities connected with such industry;
Objectives of the
Authority.

<!-- page 4 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 3
 
(i) to do all such other acts as may be necessary or
conducive to the attainment of all or any of the
above objectives.
4. The Authority shall consist of the following persons
appointed by the Minister:—
(a) the Chairman of the Authority;
(b) the Director-General of the Authority appointed
under section 10, (hereinafter referred to as “the
Director-General”);
(c) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject to Tourism or his
representative;
(d) the Secretary to the Treasury or his representative;
(e) one member nominated by the Tourist Hotels
Association of Sri Lanka;
(f) one member nominated by the Sri Lanka Association
of Inbound Tour Operators;
(g) one member nominated by the Travel Agents
Association of Sri Lanka;
(h) one member appointed by the Minister from among
persons possessing experience and knowledge in
the fields of travel and tourism; and
(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Provincial Councils or his
representative.
5. (1) A person shall be disqualified from being
appointed or from continuing, as a member of the Authority,
if he is, or becomes,—
(a) the owner, partner, director, majority shareholder or
an employee of, or in, any business which operates
or provides tourist services of any class or description.
Composition of
the Authority.
Disqualification
from membership
of the Authority
&c,.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(b) a member of Parliament or a member of a Provincial
Council or of a local authority;
(c) convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude;
(d) of unsound mind or physically incapacitated ;
(e) an undischarged bankrupt or an insolvent; or
(f) absent without prior notice from three consecutive
meetings of the Authority:
Provided however that the provisions of paragraph (a)
shall not apply in respect of a member appointed in terms of
paragraphs (e), (f), (g) and (h) of section 4.
(2) Every appointed member of the Authority shall unless
he earlier vacates office by death or resignation, hold office
for a period of three years from the date of his appointment to
such office and shall be eligible for re-appointment.
(3) A member of the Authority may resign from office, at
any time by letter addressed in that behalf to the Minister.
(4) A member of the Authority, who is in any way, directly
or indirectly interested in any contract entered into, or
proposed to be entered into by the Authority, shall disclose
the nature of his interest at any meeting of the Authority and
such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the
Authority. Such member shall not participate in any
deliberation or decision of the Authority in respect of any
matter connected with such interest.
(5) No act or proceeding of the Authority shall be deemed
to be invalid only by reason of the existence of a vacancy in
its membership or any defect in the appointment of a member
thereof.

<!-- page 6 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 5
(6) The Minister may, if it is expedent to do so, remove
from office any member of the Authority other than the
Director-General, for reasons assigned.
(7) The Chairman, Director-General or an appointed
member may resign from his office, by letter addressed to the
Minister. Such resignation shall be effective from the date of
its acceptance by the Minister.
(8) In the event of the death, resignation or removal of
the Chairman or any appointed member, the Minster may
appoint another person to succeed such Chairman or member
as the case may be. The person so appointed shall hold office
for the unexpired portion of the term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.
(9) Where the Chairman or any appointed member is
temporarily unable to perform the duties, of his office on
account of ill-health, absence from Sri Lanka or for any other
cause, the Minster may appoint any person to act in the place
of the Chairman or such member.
6. (1) The Authority shall formulate and present to the
Minister —
(a) the proposed long term goals for tourist development
is Sri Lanka;
(b) the proposed four year plan for the development of
tourism within Sri Lanka.
(2) The Minster shall on receipt of the long term goals and
the four year plan under subsection (1), submit the same to
the Cabinet of Ministers for approval. The Cabinet of
Ministers may approve the long term goals and the four year
plan with or without amendments :
Provided that the aforesaid four year plan shall be revised
annually in order to include changes in policy or include
other new long term goals. Every such revision shall be
submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for approval.
Preparation and
approval of the
long term goals
and the four-year
plan.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
7. (1) The Chairman of the Authority shall preside at all
meetings of the Authority. In the absence of the Chairman
from any such meeting any member elected by the members
present shall preside at such meeting.
(2) The Chairman or the person presiding at any meeting,
shall in addition to his vote, have a casting vote.
(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Authority shall be
five members, unless otherwise agreed upon by the Authority.
(4) The Authority may make rules for the regulation of
the procedure to be followed at the meetings of the Authority
and for the transaction of business at such meetings.
8. The principal office of the Authority shall be situated
in Colombo, in Sri Lanka. The Authority may however
establish and maintain branch offices within or outside Sri
Lanka.
9. (1) The Authority may delegate all or any of the
powers, duties or functions conferred on it or assigned to it,
by this Act or any other written law, to the Chairman.
Notwithstanding such delegation, the Authority may continue
to exercise, perform and discharge any power, duty or function,
so delegated.
(2) In the exercise,  performance and discharge of the
powers, duties and functions conferred on or assigned to him
in terms of subsection (1), the Chairman shall be subject to
the general or special directions of the Authority.
10. (1) There shall be appointed by the Minister on the
advice of the Authority a person to be the Director-General,
who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority.
The criteria applicable and the procedure to be followed in
the appointment of the Director-General shall be as
prescribed.
Meetings of the
Authority &c,.
Head office of the
Authority.
Delegation of
powers of the
Authority.
The Director-
General  to be the
Chief Executive
Officer.

<!-- page 8 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 7
(2) The Minister may, on a request made in writing by the
Authority for reasons stated, and after such inquiry as is
necessary, remove the Director-General from office for reasons
assigned. The Director-General shall thereupon be deemed
to have vacated office.
(3) The Authority may on a proposal of the Chairman
delegate to the Director-General such power or function as is
deemed necessary. The Director-General shall act in
accordance with rules of the Authority as may be made in
that behalf.
(4) The Director-General shall hold office for a period of
five years from the date of his appointment as  Director-
General.
11. (1) The Chairman shall be responsible for ensuring
co-ordination of the activities within the Tourism
Development Areas declared under section 26.
(2) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the
Authority and in his absence any member elected by the
members present shall preside at such meeting.
12. The Authority may exercise, perform and discharge
all or any of the following powers, duties and functions :—
(a) to act with the concurrence of the Minister, as an
agent of the government for  the transaction of
business connected with the tourism or travel
industry;
(b) to engage in, assist in or promote the improvement
of facilities being provided for tourists to Sri Lanka
and to develop Sri Lanka as a tourist destination;
(c) to establish, maintain and operate services
connected with the tourism industry and to co-
ordinate the activities of the persons providing such
services for tourists;
Powers &c,. of the
Chairman.
Powers and
functions of the
Authority.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(d) to prescribe, regulate, maintain and enforce the
standards to be maintained by the different
enterprises of the tourism and travel industry;
(e) to license the different enterprises, on criteria to be
determined by the Authority and to prescribe the
terms and conditions applicable to the same;
(f) to acquire, hold, take on lease, hire, pledge or
otherwise dispose of any movable or immovable
property: provided however, immovable property
may be disposed of only with the prior written
consent of the Minister;
(g) to engage consultants both local and foreign,
whenever the need to do so arises for the efficient
discharge of its functions;
(h) to liase with the Provincial authorities whenever
the need to do so arises on any matter relating to the
tourism industry;
(i) to promote and assist in the development of support
industries and services;
(j) to establish companies or other bodies in order to
facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the
Act;
(k) to make rules in respect of matters specified in the
Act;
(l) to carry on the business of providing transport
facilities to persons visiting tourist attractions in
Sri Lanka;
(m ) with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers—
(i) to formulate and prepare a four year plan, and
other relevant plans and programmes for the
development of tourism within and outside
Sri Lanka in keeping with its objectives;

<!-- page 10 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 9
(ii) to invest the money of the Authority in any
business within or outside Sri Lanka, which
will promote or be conducive to the promotion
of, the tourism industry in Sri Lanka;
(iii) to enter into any joint venture with any person
or form a company, whether in Sri Lanka or
outside, in order to discharge all or any of the
functions of the Authority;
(n) with the approval of the Minister—
(i) to manage, control or supervise tourism
enterprises, within or outside Sri Lanka, by
appointing Directors or advisors, or by
entering into collaboration with other persons;
(ii) to borrow money, whether by way of overdraft,
loan or otherwise for the purposes of the
Authority;
(iii) to provide financial assistance by way of grant,
loan or otherwise, subject to such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the
Authority, to persons intending to engage in
tourist or travel services;
(o) to levy fees or other charges for services, facilities
or equipment provided by the Authority;
(p) to exercise, perform and discharge all such powers,
duties and functions as are by or under this Act vested
in or assigned or delegated to the Authority; and
(q) to do all such other acts and things as may be
necessary or conducive to the exercise, performance
and discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
13. It shall be the duty of the Authority—
(a) to advise the Minister on all matters relating to the
tourism and travel industry on a request of the
Minister or on its own motion;
(b) to advise the tourism and travel industry and other
related enterprises with regard to the developments
in the field;
(c) to prepare and submit to the Minister schemes in
respect of the establishment, regulation and
supervision, development and control of tourist
resorts and tourist services and the persons employed
in or about the same; and
(d) to formulate proposals in respect of the above for
the guidance of the Minister.
14. The members of the Authority shall be remunerated
at such rates and in such manner and be subject to such terms
and conditions of service, as may from time to time, be
determined by the Minster in consultation with the Minister
incharge of the subject of Finance.
15. (1) There may be appointed to the staff of the
Authority such officers and servants as the Authority may
deem necessary for the efficient discharge of the powers,
function and duties assigned to or conferred on, the Authority
under the Act.
(2) The Authority may, subject to the general directions
of the Minister as to policy—
(a) appoint, dismiss and exercise disciplinary control
over the staff of the Authority;
(b) determine the salary, wages or other remuneration
of such staff; and
(c) determine the terms and conditions of service of
such staff.
Special duties of
the Authority.
Remuneration and
terms and
conditions of
service of
members.
Staff of the
Authority.

<!-- page 12 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 11
(3) (a) At the request of the Authority any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and the
Minister in charge of the subject of Public Administration,
be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority for
such period as may be determined by the Authority with like
consent or with like consent be permanently appointed to
such staff.
(b) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appionted to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall  mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to him.
(c) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, mutatis mutandis, apply to
and in relation to him.
(d) Where the Authority employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Authority by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations under such contract.
16. (1) The Authority may establish and maintain such
departments as it may consider necessary for the proper and
efficient conduct of the affairs of the Authority.
(2) The Authority shall determine the duties and functions
to be assigned to each of the departments established under
subsection (1).
(3) The Authority may with the concurrence of the Minister
appoint such number of Committees comprising of its
members or any other persons possessing appropriate
expertise to assist the Authority in the discharge of its
functions. Such Committees shall at all times be headed by a
member of the Authority.
Departments and
Committees of the
Authority.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(4) The Authority may make rules setting out the functions
of such Committees.
17. (1) The Authority may make rules relating to the
exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, duties
and functions vested in, or assigned to, the Authority, in
respect of any matter for which rules are authorized to be
made.
(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall come into
operation upon being approved by the Minister. Every such
rule shall be published in the Gazette.
18. (1) The Minister may, in consultation with the
Authority, issue general policy directions to the Authority,
not inconsistent with the provisions of the  Act, in relation to
the  exercise, performance and discharge by the Authority of
its powers, duties and functions.
(2) The Authority shall give effect to any such directions
issued by the Minister.
(3) The Authority shall also furnish to the Minister such
information as the Minister may from time to time require in
relation to the activities and property of the Authority.
CHAPTER II
F
INANCE  AND  ACCOUNTS
19. (1) There shall be a Fund established for the general
financial purposes of the Authority. There shall be paid into
the Fund :—
(a) all such money as may be voted by Parliament for
the management and administration of the affairs of
the Authority ;
(b) all rates, duties, fees and charges levied by the
Authority under the regulations or rules made or
deemed to be made under the  provisions of this Act
Power of
Authority to make
rules.
Authority to
comply with
directions issued
by the Minister.
Fund of the
Authority.

<!-- page 14 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 13
or in the exercise of  any powers conferred on the
Authority by or under this Act ;
(c) all revenue derived by the Authority from any
property vested in or administered by the Authority ;
(d) all revenue derived by the Authority from services
provided by the Authority ;
(e) all money received by way of charges for services
provided by the Authority or on behalf of the
Authority by an authorized agent, and for any
certificate, license or approval granted by it for the
purposes  stated in the Act ; and
(f) all other sums otherwise accruing to the credit of
the Authority.
(2) The Authority shall make rules, with the concurrence
of the Minister, for the withdrawal of any moneys from the
Fund and no sum shall be withdrawn from the Fund except in
accordance with such rules.
20. (1) The Authority shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its assets and liabilities, income and expenditure and
all other transactions of the Authority.
(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shall
apply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.
(3) (a) The Authority shall on receipt of the Auditor-
General’s report in respect of any year, cause the report of the
Director-General on the administration of the affairs of the
Authority which shall contain a detailed report of the steps
taken for the furtherance of the objectives of the Act, to be
transmitted to  the Minister along with the following
documents :—
(i) the Auditor-Generals’ report for the relevant year;
Audit of accounts.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(ii) the Balance Sheet for the relevant year ; and
(iii) the Profit and Loss Account for the relevant year.
(b) The Minister shall cause copies of the report and
documents transmitted to him under paragraph (a) to be laid
before Parliament.
(4) The financial year of the Authority shall be the
calender year.
(5) The Authority shall have the power, where the Auditor
General considers it to be necessary, to engage the services of
qualified auditors to assist in the preparation of the reports
and accounts required by this section, who shall act under
the direction  and control of the Auditor-General.
For the purposes of this section “qualified auditor” shall
have the same meaning as in paragraph (8) of Article 154 of
the  Constitution.
21. Every member, officer or servant of the Authority
shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning,
and for the purposes, of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).
22. The Authority shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter
26) and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.
Members, officers
and servants of the
Authority deemed
to be public
servants.
Authority deemed
to be a Scheduled
Institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.
(Chapter 26)

<!-- page 16 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 15
CHAPTER III
TOURISM  DEVELOPMENT  FUND
23. (1) There shall be established for the purposes of this
Act a Fund to be called the Tourism Development Fund
(hereinafter referred to as “the Fund”) which shall be utilized
for the  development and promotion of tourism in accordance
with the  provisions hereinafter set out and any regulations
which may be  made in that behalf. The Fund shall be
managed and administerd  by the Authority.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund established by
subsection (1) —
(a) one-third of the sum collected by way of
Embarkation Levy in terms of section 2 of the
Finance Act, No. 25 of 2003 ; and
(b) all such sums of money as are required to be paid
into such fund by or under this Act.
(3) Thers shall be paid out of the Fund—
(a) all sums of money required to defray any
expenditure incurred by any organization or any
person in the promotion or development of tourism,
in accordance with regulations which may be made
in that  behalf ; and
(b) all sums of money as are required to be paid out of
such Fund.
(4) The accounts of the Fund shall be audited in
accordance with paragraph (8) of Article 154 of the
Constitution.
(5) The report of the Auditor-General on the accounts of
the Fund shall be placed before Parliament by the Minister.
Establishment of
the Tourism
Development
Fund.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
24. (1) There shall be charged, levied and collected by
the Director-General, in terms of section 12 of the Finance
Act, No. 25 of 2003, a Tourism Development Levy, on the
turnover of every institution, licensed under the Tourist
Development Act, No. 14 of 1968
(2) The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 25 of
2003 shall apply in relation to the imposition of the levy, the
method of payment of the levy and the manner of furnishing
returns relating to the collection of such levy to the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury.
(3) Rules may be made by the Authority for the
management and administration of the levy.
(4) The levy charged and levied in terms of the aforesaid
provisions shall be entered into a register by the providers of
the respective servics and shall be properly accounted for
and separate accounts maintained by the provider of such
services, of the monies paid as levy.
(5) A monthly statement, containing in the prescribed
manner all the details of the amounts collected as levy shall
be forwarded to the Authority by each service provider on or
before the fifteenth day of the succeeding month.
(6) All monies collected on account of the levy charged
by the Authority shall be paid to the Authority within fifteen
days of the submission of the monthly satatement as provided
for in subsection (5).
(7) Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with
the provisions of subsection (5) and (6) of this section shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act.
(8) The moneys collected by way of the levy by the
Director-General, shall be paid into the Tourist Development
Fund established under subsection (1) of section 23 and all
Levy of the
Tourism
Development
Levy.

<!-- page 18 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 17
monies lying to the credit of the Fund shall be disbursed in
the  following manner :—
(a) a sum amounting to seventy percentum (70%) to be
paid to the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau
established under section 40 ;
(b) a sum amounting to twelve percentum (12%) to be
paid to the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel
Management  established under section 33 ;
(c) a sum amounting to fourteen percentum (14%) to
be paid to the Authority ; and
(d) a sum amounting to four percentum (4%) to be paid
to the Sri Lanka Convention Bureau established
under section 42.
(9) The moneys collected by way of the levy and disbursed
in the manner set out in subsection (8) ahall be used solely
for the purposes of making payments in connection with the
promotion and marketing of Sri Lanka as a tourist and travel
destination.
PART II
C
HAPTER IV
TOURIST  DEVELOPMENT  AREAS
25. The Authority shall have jurisdiction in and over any
Tourist Development Area declared in terms of section 26.
26. (1) The Minister may on the recommendation of
the Authority from time to time, declare by Order published
in the Gazette, any area to be a Tourist Development Area
(hereinafter referred to as “an Area”).
Authority to have
jurisdiction over a
declared area.
Declaration of
Tourist
Development
Areas.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(2) The Authority may prior to making any
recommendation under subsection (1), conduct such public
hearing  after due notice to the inhabitants of that area or any
other stakeholders, in such manner as shall be prescribed.
(3) Regulations may be made prescribing the tourist
services and commercial and other activities which may be
carried out within an Area declared in terms of  subsection
(1). Such regulations may also include lists of facilities  and
places of historical or environmental interest which amount
to tourist attractions, within such Area.
27. (1) Every Order published in terms of section 26
shall specify the boundaries of the area or areas so declared.
An  Area may include any National Holiday Resort or any
other area administered by the Authority under any written
law.
(2) Every Order in terms of section 26 shall be valid for a
period of ten years.
(3) Upon the declaration of any area in terms of section
26, the Authority may exercise, perform and discharge in
relation to any such Area declared in terms of section 26 the
powers, duties or functions conferred or imposed on or
assigned to, any person, body or authority by any relevant
written law, in so far as the  same is necessary, in consultation
with the relevant authorites  specified in the aforesaid written
laws and to the extent agreed.
(4) The Authority may by regulation specify—
(a) the conditions applicable to access to any area which
falls within an Area declared in terms of section 26.
Such regulations shall not however apply in  respect
of public roads, public monuments, places of
worship, public parks, public offices, schools,
dispensaries and other public places and facilities
provided by either the government, a Provincial
Council or a local authority, which were  in existence
at the time of the promulgation of such regulation ;
Orders relating to
Tourist
Development
Areas.

<!-- page 20 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 19
(b) the categories of commercial actvities which in the
opinion of the Minister would  affect the Tourism
industry and which may  therefore require
prohibition within any  such Area or Resort, taking
into consideration the necessity for providing
security and safety to the persons entering  such
areas and for taking measures for the prevention or
mitigation of health hazards within such areas ; and
(c) the facilities and sites available within an Area for
use by tourists, including sites of interest and places
of recreation.
28. (1) Any person who within an Area declared in terms
of section 26, prevents or acts in such a manner as to prevent
any other person from enjoying the facilities available within
such Area or does any act which interferes  with the privacy
of any other person, or contravenes any regulation made under
paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (3) of section 27 shall be
guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after trial be
liable to a fine not less than rupees twenty five thousand and
not exceeding one hundred thousand.
(2) For the purposes of this Part “privacy” shall include
the right of any person to be left alone in his enjoyment of
the  environment, and the facilities and services available
within any area declared as a Tourist Development Area in
terms of section 26, without any intrusion into his private
life, which intrusion could be considered offensive to a
reasonable person.
29. (1) Upon the declaration of an Area in terms of
section 26, the Authority shall for a period of ten years, be
vested with all the powers necessary for the environmental
planning and preservation of archaeology under the National
Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980 and the Antiquities
Ordinance (Chapter 188), to such extent on the same is
necessary for the implementation of the development plan
within the declared area.
Protection of
privacy within any
area declared
under section 26.
Authority to be
vested with powers
under the National
Environmental Act
and the Antiquities
Ordinance.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(2) The Central Environmental Authority shall, in respect
of any matter where the Authority is vested with the power in
terms of subsection (1), be required to submit its
recommendation to the Authority within the prescribed
period.
(3) (a) Upon the declaration of any Area in terms of
section 26, it shall be lawful for the Minister, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in the National Environmental Act,
No. 47 of 1980 to make regulations in consultation with the
Minister  in charge of the subject of Environment to prescribe
the criteria to be followed in respect of environmental
planning within such area. The procedure to be followed by
the Central Environmental Authority in this respect and the
time within which such recommendations have to be made
shall be as prescribed.
(b) Where the Authority is not in agreement with a
recommendation of the Central Environmental Authority, it
shall refer to matter to the Minister in charge of the subject of
Environment, whose decision thereon shall be final. A member
of the respective Committee shall be required to be present at
all times when any such matter is being considered.
(c)The Minister, with the concurrence of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Environment, shall make such
regulations as may be necessary prescribing the procedure to
be followed in the making of recommendations and the time
within which any such recommendation should be made.
(d) The Minister in charge of the subject of Environment
shall make regulations prescribing the criteria to be followed
in environmental planning within an Area as is declared under
section 26.
(4) (a) Upon the declaration of any area in terms of section
26, it shall be lawful for the Authority to exercise powers in
respect of making available facilities to visitors at the sites of

<!-- page 22 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 21
such antiquites, in terms of the Antiquities Ordinance
(Chapter 188) within such area. In the exercise of these powers
the  Authority shall obtain the consent of the Commissioner
of Archaeology. The procedure to be followed in obtaining
such consent shall be as prescribed.
(b) The Minister shall, with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Antiquities, make such
regulations as may be necessary prescribing the procedure to
be followed in the preservation of antiquities within any
such Area as is declared under section 26.
(5) Regulations may be made specifying the extent to
which and the manner in which and the persons by whom the
provisions of any other written law shall be applied in relation
there to. Any such regulation shall be made in consultation
with the Minister in charge of the  relevant subject.
(6) In this section “Central Environmental Authority”
means the Central Environmental Authority established under
the  National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.
30. Trekking areas and nature trails shall be declared
and identified for such use. within any Area declared in terms
of section 26.  Fees as prescribed by regulation shall be charged
from persons using the trekking areas or nature trails. The
manner in which such areas should be used shall also be
prescribed. The  Minister shall make regulations in
concurrence with the Minister in charge of the relevant
subject.
31. (1) The Authority shall, mutatis mutandis, exercise
all powers under the Tourist Development Act, No. 14 of
1968 in respect of any Area declared under section 26 .
Declaration of
trekking areas and
nature trails.
Authority to
exercise powers
&c,.

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
PART III
CHAPTER V
TOURISM  ADVISORY  COMMITTEE
32. (1) There shall be established a body to be called the
Tourism Advisory Committee (hereinafter referred to as the
“Advisory Committee”) for the purpose fo advising the
Minister and the Authority on any matters in relation to the
travel and tourism industry.
(2) The Advisory Committee shall consist of—
(a) the following ex-officio members :—
(i) the Chairman of the Authority ;
(ii)the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Institute of
Tourism and Hotel Management established
in terms of section 33;
(iii)the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Tourism
Promotion Bureau established in terms of
section 41 ;
(iv) the Chief executive Officer of the national
carrier of Sri Lanka ; and
(b) not less than five and not more than eleven persons
who possess wide experience and qualifications in
relation to global travel, tourism and related
industries, who shall be appointed by the Minister.
(3) One of such persons shall be appointed as the
Chairman of the Advisory Committee.
(4) the Minister may for reasons assigned remove any
member of the Advisory Committee.
Establishment of
the Tourism
Advisory
Committee.

<!-- page 24 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 23
(5) It shall be the duty of the Advisory Committee to
tender advise on the future direction and strategy of the tourist
and travel industry and make its recommendations thereon.
(6) The Minister may give special or general directions
in writing as to the performance of the duties and the exercise
of the  powers of the Advisory Committee, and the Advisory
Committee shall give effect to such directions.
(7) The Authority may forward any matter to the Advisory
Committee for its advise and the Advisory Committee shall
forward its advise within the shortest possible period.
(8) The term of office of the members of the Advisory
Committee shall be three years: Provided that a member
appionted in place of a member who resigns or otherwise
vactes office, shall hold office for the unexpired part of the
term of office of the  member whom he succeeds.
(9) Any member who vacates office by effluxion of time
shall be eligible for re-appointment.
(10) (a) Any member of the Advisory Committee may
resign from office by letter addressed to the Minister.
(b) Where a member is temporarily unable to discharge
the duties of his office on account of ill health, absence from
Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint some
other  person to act as a member in his place for the period of
his absence.
(11) The Advisory Committee may with the approval of
the Minister, appoint such officers or servants to assist the
Advisory Committee in carrying out its duties under this
Part.
(12) Where necessary, the members of the Advisory
Committee and other officers and servants may be paid such
remuneration out of the fund as may be determined by the
Authority.

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
CHAPTER VI
SRI LANKA  INSTITUTE  OF  TOURISM  AND  HOTEL  MANAGEMENT
33. There shall be established a body called and known
as the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management,
(hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”) which shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and which may sue and be sued in such name.
34. The objectives of the Institute shall be :—
(a) the identification of areas connected to the tourism
industry where training of personnel is needed and
obtaining the services of the best academic and
professional trainers is essential;
(b) the development of curricula in identified areas of
study,
(c) to provide tertiary education and vocational training
in subjects related to tourism, to such extent as the
same is required for the development of tourism;
(d) to co-operate with persons or bodies training persons
both local or foreign to engage in work wholly or
partly connected with tourism;
(e) to award certificates of participation to each
individual indicating the nature of the qualification
obtained from the Institute;
(f) to own, manage and participate in the ownership
and management of schools and training centres
wholly or partly connected with tourism; and
(g) to exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties
and functions conferred or imposed on the Institute
by or under this Act or any other law in force for the
time being for the purpose of the attainment of its
objectives.
Establishment of
the Sri Lanka
Institute of
Tourism and Hotel
Management.
Objectives of the
Institute.

<!-- page 26 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 25
35. (1) There shall be a Board of Management
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) of the Institute,
appointed by the Minister who shall be charged with the
management and administration of the Institute.
(2) The Board shall comprise—
(a) the person appointed as Chairman of the Board of
Governors of the Institute;
(b) the Director-General of the Institute appointed under
section 36;
(c) the Director-General of the Authority appointed
under section 10;
(d) two persons appointed by the Minister who shall be
persons possessing knowledge in the fields of
tourism, travel and training in hotel management;
(e) the Managing - Director of the Sri Lanka Tourism
Promotion Bureau established under section 40;
(f) six persons appointed by the Minister in
consultation with the Tourist Hotels Association of
Sri Lanka, the Travel Agents Association of
Sri Lanka, the Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour
Operators and the Hotel School Graduates
Association and selected in the following manner:—
(i) two representatives from the Tourist Hotels
Association of Sri Lanka;
(ii) one person nominated by the Travel Agents
Association of Sri Lanka;
(iii)one person nominated by the Sri Lanka
Association of Inbound Tour Operators; and
(iv) two nominees from the Hotel School Graduates
Association; and
Board of
Management
of the
Institute.

<!-- page 27 -->

26 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(g) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Tourism or his representative.
36. (1) The staff of the Institute shall consist of the
following:—
(a) the Director-General of the Institute appointed by
the Minister on the recommendation of the Board
of the Institute;
(b) such academic staff as are necessary for the conduct
of educational programs, who shall be appointed
by the Institute with the approval of the Board;
(c) such other officers and servants as the Board shall
deem necessary for effectively carrying out the
functions of the Institute.
(2) The procedure to be followed for the making of the
recommendation under paragraph (a) above shall be as
prescribed.
(3) The Director -General of the Institute shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Institute and the staff of the Institute
shall be responsible for the administration and conduct of
the business of the Institute, and shall carry out such duties
as are entrusted to them by the Director-General and in such
manner as is specified by the Director-General on the
recommendation of the Board.
(4) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Board
may—
(a) appoint, dismiss and exercise disciplinary control
over the staff of the Institute;
(b) fix wages and salaries or other remuneration of such
staff giving due consideration to current market
rates; and
Staff of the
Institute.

<!-- page 28 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 27
(c) determine the terms and conditions of service of
such staff.
37. (1) The term of office of the members of the Board
shall be three years : Provided that a member appointed in
place of a member who resigns or otherwise vacates office,
shall hold office for the unexpired part of the term of office of
the member whom he succeeds.
(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or
from continuing as Chairman of the Institute if he is, or
becomes, the owner, a partner, a director, a majority shareholder
or an employee of, or in, any business, which provides training
in tourist services of any class or description and in hotel
management.
(3) Any member who vacates office by effluxion of time
shall be eligible for re-appointment.
(4) The Minister may remove any member of the Board
from office, for reasons assigned.
(5) (a) Any member of the Board may resign from office
by letter addressed to the Minister.
(b) Where a member is temporarily unable to discharge
the duties of his office on account of ill health, absence from
Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint some
other person to act as a member in his place for the period of
his absence.
 (6 ) The Board may with the approval of the Minister,
appoint such officers or servants to assist the Board in carrying
out its duties under this Part.
 (7) Where necessary, the Members of the Board and other
officers and servants may be paid such remuneration out of
the fund as may be determined by the Authority.
Term of office
&c,. of members
of the Board.

<!-- page 29 -->

28 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
38. (1) The Hotel School established under the
provisions of the Ceylon Tourist Board Act, No. 10 of 1966
shall vest in the Institute from the date of the coming into
operation of this Act.
(2) All property movable and immovable belonging to
the Institute on the date of vesting shall stand transferred to
the Institute.
(3) All members of the staff of the Hotel School shall on
the date of the coming into operation of this Act, be deemed
to be the staff of the Institute, with effect from the said date.
(4) All moneys lying to the credit of the Hotel School
shall be transferred to the Fund established under section 19.
39. (1) The Institute shall in consultation with the
Minister appoint an Academic Affairs Board, which shall
consist of a Director who shall be the Chairman, and four
other members.
(2) The Academic Affairs Board shall be responsible for
the implementation and management of the academic
activities of the Institute. The Academic Affairs Board shall
be charged with the administration of any school conducted
or operated by the Institute.
(3) Regulations may be made prescribing—
(a) the manner of appointing the members and to the
Academic Affairs Board and the manner in which
the schools under the Institute should be
administered;
(b) the criteria required of persons seeking to establish,
manage or operate privately owned Hotel Schools
for training in Tourism and Hotel Management and
the manner in which such Schools should be
administered.
Hotel School to
vest in the
Institute.
Appointment of
Academic Affairs
Board of the
Institute.

<!-- page 30 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 29
CHAPTER VII
SRI  LANKA  TOURISM  PROMOTION  BUREAU
40. (1) There shall be established a body, which shall
be called and known as the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion
Bureau (hereinafter referred to as “the Bureau”) which shall
be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and which may sue or be sued in such name.
(2) The Bureau shall comprise—
(a) the person appointed by the Minister to be the
Chairman of the Bureau;
(b) the Director-General of the Authority appointed
under section 10;
(c) the Managing Director of the Bureau;
(d) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance or his representative;
and
(e) not more than six persons who shall be nominees of
the Joint Council of the Sri Lanka Association of
Inbound Tour Operators and the Tourist Hotels
Association of Sri Lanka; and
(f) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Tourism or his representative.
(3) The person appointed as Chairman shall be a person
having knowledge and experience in marketing and
advertising insofar as they relate to the tourism industry.
(4) The Bureau shall have the following objectives:—
(a) Marketing and promoting of Sri Lanka directly or
indirectly, as a tourist and travel destination of
Sri Lanka Tourism
Promotion Bureau.

<!-- page 31 -->

30 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
quality, in accordance with the Tourist Development
Plan in consultation with the Authority;
(b) promoting Sri Lanka as a gateway to the South Asian
Region; and
(c) making Sri Lanka known as a centre of excellence
in tourism management and development in the
region.
(5) The Bureau shall be entrusted with such powers, duties
and functions as may be assigned to it by the Minister from
time to time and with such other duties and functions as may
from time to time, taking into consideration the needs of the
tourist industry, be assigned.
(6) The Authority shall make an annual allocation to the
Bureau for the implementation of the powers, duties and
functions assigned to it and it shall be the responsibility of
the Bureau to make optimum use of the funds allocated.
(7) The administration of the affairs of the Bureau shall
be entrusted to a Managing - Director who shall be appointed
by the Minister for such purpose. The qualifications and other
criteria that shall be required of the person to be appointed to
the position of Managing - Director shall be as prescribed.
(8) For the purpose of carrying out efficiently its duties
connected with the promotion and marketing of Sri Lanka
both within Sri Lanka and abroad, the Bureau shall maintain
offices both within Sri Lanka and abroad.
(9) The Bureau shall submit to the Minister, before the
expiry of a period of three months from the end of each
calendar year—
(a) a report of its work during that year;

<!-- page 32 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 31
(b) a copy of its’ audited annual accounts for the
previous calendar year within three months of the
current year, and half year accounts before the end
of the seventh month of the calendar year ;
(c) a statement containing such particulars as specified
by the Ministry, amounting to an estimate of its
income and expenditure for the succeeding calendar
year;
(d) a plan for a period of three years, projecting the
work to be achieved by the Bureau;
(e) a statement containing achievements and
performance relating to the plan presented for the
previous year.
41. (1) The term of office of the members of the Bureau
shall be three years. Provided that a member appointed in
place of a member who resigns or otherwise vacates office,
shall hold office for the unexpired part of the term of office of
the member whom he succeeds.
(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or from continuing as Chairman of the Bureau if he is, or
becomes, the owner, a partner, a working director, a majority
shareholder or an employee of, or in, any business which
operates or provides tourist services of any class or description.
(3) Any member who vacates office by effluxion of time
shall be eligible for re-appointment.
(4) (a) Any member of the Bureau may resign from office
by letter addressed to the Minister.
(b) Where a member of the Bureau is temporarily unable
to discharge his duties of his office on account of ill health,
absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may
appoint some other person to act as a member in his place for
the period of his absence.
Term of office &c,
of members of the
Bureau.

<!-- page 33 -->

32 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(5) The Bureau may with the approval of the Minister,
appoint such officers or servants to assist the Bureau in
carrying out its duties under this Part.
(6) Where necessary, the members of the Bureau and other
officerrs and servants may be paid such remuneration out of
the fund as may be determined by the Authority.
CHAPTER VIII
SRI LANKA  CONVENTION  BUREAU
42. (1) There shall be established a body which shall
be called and known as the Sri Lanka Convention Bureau
(hereinafter referred to as the “Convention Bureau”) which
shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a
common seal and which may sue or be sued in such name.
(2) The objectives of the Convention Bureau shall be :—
(a) to promote Sri Lanka as a venue for international,
regional and domestic conventions, meetings and
exhibitions, and as an incentive travel destination;
(b) to provide a common policy designed to ensure the
co-ordinated and co-operative development and
marketing of Sri Lanka as a venue for international,
regional and domestic conventions, meetings and
exhibitions and as an incentive travel destination;
(c) to co-ordinate and assist the promotion,
development and servicing by the public and private
sector of international, regional and domestic
conventions, meetings exhibitions and incentive
travel;
(d) to co-ordinate and co-operate with convention,
exhibition and incentive travel organizers in
Sri Lanka and overseas to ensure the successful
staging of conventions, meetings, and exhibitions
and the implementation of incentive travel
programmes.
Sri Lanka
Convention
Bureau.

<!-- page 34 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 33
(e) to prescribe and enforce the maintenance of
professional standards by persons or organizations
involved in handling various aspects of conventions,
meetings, exhibitions and incentive travel;
(f) to encourage and promote the development of
professional skills among the different categories
of persons or organizations involved in handling
convention, meetings, exhibitions and incentive
travel ;
(g) to affiliate with, obtain membership of, or enter into
any agreement with any association or organization
engaged in developing or promoting conventions,
meetings, exhibitions and incentive travel;
(h) to provide guidance to the Bureau to develop,
promote and market Sri Lanka as a tourist and travel
destination both in Sri Lanka and abroad;
(i) to develop and promote adequate, attractive and
efficient tourist services, inclusive of the hospitality
industry, in a sustainable manner; and
(j) to do in Sri Lanka or elsewhere all such acts and
things incidental or conductive to the attainment of
the objects of the Bureau.
43. (1) There shall be a Board of Management of the
Convention Bureau comprising not less than five and not
more than thirteen members.
(2) The following shall be the nominated members of the
Board of Management:—
(i) the Director-General of the Bandaranaike Memorial
International Conference Hall and the exhibition
Centre or his representative;
(ii) the President of the Tourist Hotels Association of
Sri Lanka or his representative;
Board of
Management of
the Convention
Bureau.

<!-- page 35 -->

34 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(iii)the President of the Sri Lanka Association of Inbound
Tour Operators or the Vice President of such
Association;
(iv) the President of the Colombo City Tourist Hotels
Association or his representative;
(v) the General President of the Sri Lanka Association
for the Advancement of Science or the Vice President
of such Association;
(vi) the President of the Organisation of Professional
Associations of Sri Lanka or the Vice President of
such Association;
(vii) the President of the Federation of Chambers of
Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka;
(viii) the person representing the Ministry of Finance on
the Board of the Tourism Development Authority;
(ix) the Director-General of the Tourism Development
Authority appointed under section 10;
(x) an executive of Sri Lankan Airlines Limited,
nominated by the management of Sri Lankan
Airlines Limited or an officer not below the rank of
Senior Executive; and
(xi) two nominees of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Tourism, one of whom shall be an officer of that
Ministry.
(2) The Chairman of the Convention Bureau shall be
nominated by the Minister in charge of the subject of Tourism
from among the persons who are members of the Board
appointed under subsection (1). The Chairman shall hold
office for a period of three years.

<!-- page 36 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 35
(3) The Board of Management of the Convention Bureau
is authorised to remove any member of the Board if the
member is absent from three consecutive board meetings and
is not represented by an alternate Member.
(4) The Minister in charge of the subject of Tourism may
in his discretion appoint a person who is the Chairman or
President of an Association representing an under-represented
sector of the industry as a member of the Board. Such member
shall however not have the right to vote.
(5) Any remuneration to the members of the Board of
Management of the Convention Bureau shall be determined
by in consultation with the Minister of Finance.
(6) A member of the Board of Management of the
Convention Bureau shall not vote in respect of any contract in
which he is directly interested, or on any matter arising through
such contract, and, if he does so, his vote shall not be counted.
44. The office of a member of the Board of Management
of the Convention Bureau shall be vacated if that member,—
(a) becomes bankrupt, or insolvent, or makes any
arrangement, or composition, with his creditors
generally; or
(b) is prohibited from being a member of the Board of
Management by reason of any order made under the
provisions of this Act; or
(c) becomes of unsound mind; or
(d) resigns his office by notice in writing to the
Convention Bureau; or
(e) ceases to be a member of the Board of Management
of the Convention Bureau in terms of the Act.
Disqualifications.

<!-- page 37 -->

36 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
45. The Convention Bureau shall employ a person to be
the General-Manager of the Convention Bureau. The General-
Manager shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Bureau
and the terms and conditions of employment of the General-
Manager shall be specified by the Board of Management of
the Convention Bureau.
46. (1) A person appointed to the Board of Management
of the Convention Bureau in place of a member of the Board
of Management shall be called an “alternate member”.
(2) A person appointed to be an alternate member shall
not receive in respect of such appointment, any remuneration
from the Convention Bureau. The Board of Management of
the Convention Bureau may however reimburse the alternate
member such reasonable expenses as he may incur in attending
and returning from meetings of the Board of Management of
the Convention Bureau which he is entitled to attend, or
which such member may otherwise properly incur in, or about,
the business of the Convention Bureau, or may pay such
allowances as it may think proper in respect of these expenses.
(3) An alternate member to be nominated by the relevant
Board member in terms of subsection (2) of section 44 shall
be entitled to receive notices of all meetings of the Board of
Management  of the Convention Bureau, and to attend and
vote as a member of the Board of Management at any such
meeting at which his appointer is not present, and generally
to perform all the functions of his appointer in the absence of
such appointer.
(4) An alternate member may be appointed for a specified
period, or consequent to or until a specified event.
(5) An alternate member ceases to be a member of the
Board of Management of the Convention Bureau if—
(a) his appointer ceases to be a member of the Board of
Management of the Convention Bureau; or
General-Manager
of the Convention
Bureau.
Alternate members
of the Board of
Management of
the Convention
Bureau.

<!-- page 38 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 37
(b) the alternate member compounds with his creditors,
or is adjudged an insolvent ; or
(c) the alternate member resigns his office by notice in
writing ; or
(d) the alternate member of the Board of Management
of the Convention Bureau becomes a lunatic or a
person of unsound mind ; or
(e) the appointment of the alternate members of the
Board of Management of the Convention Bureau is
revoked by notice in writing by his appointer.
47. The Convention Bureau shall receive four percentum
(4%) of the total sum collected as Tourist Development Levy
and any other money allocated to it by the Government, for
the efficient functioning of the Convention Bureau.
PART IV
C
HAPTER  IX
R EGISTRA TION OF  TOURIST  ENTERPRISES  AND  TOURIST  SERVICES  AND
R EGULATION  OF  PRICES , FEES , RATES  AND  CHARGES  IN RESPECT  OF
TOURIST  SERVICES
48. (1) The Minister may, on the recommendation of
the Authority by Order published in the Gazette classify
certain businesses and services being operated within the
tourist and travel industry, as Tourist Enterprises and Tourist
Services, respectively.
(2) Every Order made under this section shall be placed
before Parliament.
(3) Every Tourist Enterprise and Tourist Service falling
within the classification made in terms of subsection (1) shall
be registered with the Authority and a license issued in the
name of such Enterprise or Service by the Authority, according
to the different classifications. A Register of Licensed Tourist
Monies of the
Bureau.
Declaration and
registration of
Tourist Enterprises
and Tourist
Services.

<!-- page 39 -->

38 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
Enterprises and Tourist Services should be maintained by
the Authority. The procedures to be followed and the manner
of issuing licenses shall be as prescribed.
(4) No Tourist Enterprise or Tourist Service shall carry on
business unless they are registered with the Authority in terms
of this section. Any Tourist Enterprise or Tourist Service
carrying on business without being registered or who have
not been issued with a license, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act and shall be liable to have such registration
and license cancelled.
(5) Fees payable for such licensing and registration shall
from time to time be specified by Order published in the Gazette.
(6) A license issued in terms of subsection (2) shall be
valid for such period as prescribed by regulations and shall
be issued in accordance with the procedure prescribed for the
renewal of licenses.
(7) A license issued under this section shall be subject to
requirement to maintain the minimum standards of the
services being provided by any Licensed Tourist Enterprise
or Tourist Service.
(8) The Authority shall make rules relating to-
(a) the presentation of a detailed Report to the Authority
prior to the issue of a License by the Tourist
Enterprise or Tourist Service setting out its capacity
and ability to provide the service for which the
licence is being sought ; and
(b) the manner of carrying out inspections of the service
being provided by the licensed Tourist Enterprise
or Tourist Service under the license issued to it and
the monitoring of the same.
(9) Every Tourist Enterprise and Tourist Service licensed
in terms of this section, shall in every advertisement,
communication or other notification relating to the services

<!-- page 40 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 39
being provided by it, include a statement to the effect that it
is a registered Tourist Enterprise or Tourist Service to which
a license has been issued in terms of this section.
(10) It shall be an offence for any Tourist Enterprise and
Tourist Service, which has not been registered to hold out
that it is a registered Tourist Enterprise and Tourist Service.
49. (1) The Minister on the advice of the Authority shall
make regulations prescribing Codes of Couduct which shall
be applicable in respect of all or any of the following Tourist
Enterprises and Tourist Services :-
(a) Tourist Hotels ;
(b) Travel Agents ;
(c) Tourist Guide Lecturers ;
(d) Specified Tourist Services (being a tourist service
consisting of services not falling within any of the
above) as may be identified by the Minister by Order
published in the Gazette in consultation with the
Authority.
(2) Any person who fails to comply with any matter set out
in any Code of Conduct framed in terms of this section shall
be guilty of an offence and be liable to a fine of rupees one
hundred thousand.
50. (1) The Minister on the advice of the Authority, may
categorize classes of Tourist Enterprises and Tourist Services
and from time to time prescribe the standards to be maintained
by any such enterprise or service.
(2) Where the Minister has categorized the classes of
Tourist Enterprises and Tourist Services, the Authority may
issue a Certificate of Standards to any class of Tourist
Enterprises or Tourist Services categorised under
subsection (1).
Powers of Minister
to prescribe Codes
of Conduct.
Tourist Services
and Tourist
Enterprises to be
categorized from
time to time.

<!-- page 41 -->

40 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(3) Where any service being provided by any Tourist
Enterprise or Tourist Service is found to be below the standard
specified in the Certificate of Standards issued to it, the
Authority may identify steps which the enterprise or service
is required to take to improve its standards and achieve the
standard specified in the Certificate. Where any enterprise or
service fails to comply with such steps as are identified by
the Authority, the Authority shall forthwith cancel the
Certificate issued to such enterprise or service.
51. Any person to whom the  grant of a license in terms
of subsection (2) of section 43 is refused or whose Certificate
has been cancelled in terms of section 45, may appeal to an
appeals tribunal appointed by the Minister for this purpose.
The composition of the Tribunal and the procedure to be
followed by the Tribunal shall be prescribed.
52. (1) The minister shall prescribe a symbol to be the
symbol of the Authority.  All duly registered travel and tourist
enterprises would be authorized to use or display the symbol
in the manner prescribed.
(2) No person shall without the sanction of the Authority
use or display the symbol of the Authority.
(3) Any person who without the permission of the
Authority uses or displays the symbol of the Authority or a
symbol or representation so nearly representing the symbol
of the Authority in such a manner as to mislead or confuse a
third party, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
53. (1) The Chairman of the Authority on the
recommendation of the members of the Authority may, where
it appears to him to be expedient so to do, after such
consultation as may appear to be necessary, by Order regulate
the prices, rates, fees or charges that may be imposed, levied,
demanded or recovered for the provision of any tourist
service. Such order is in this Act referred to as a “Price
Regulation Order”.
Appeals.
Symbol of the
Authority.
Price Regulation
Order.

<!-- page 42 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 41
(2) Any Price Regulation Order—
(a) may be made operative to all tourist services
throughout Sri Lanka, or may be limited in its
operation to tourist services in any such place or
area in Sri Lanka as may be specified in the order ;
(b) may be limited in its application to any such
description of tourist services as may be so specified ;
(c) may regulate prices, rates, fees or charges in respect
of tourist services of different descriptions or
different classes of tourist services of the same
description ; and
(d) may prescribe the conditions subject to which such
prices, rates, fees or charges may be imposed, levied,
demanded or recovered by any such services,
including conditions as to quality and standards of
the amenities or facilities afforded by any such
services.
(3) (a) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by the preceding provisions of this section, the
Director-General of the Authority shall, in making any Price
Regulation Order have regard primarily, to the necessity of
ensuring that any description of tourist services of any one
class shall be entitled to impose, levy, demand or recover
higher maximum prices, rates, fees or charges than any other
class of tourist services of the same description.
(b) For the purposes of this Chapter, the term “class”, in
relation to any travel or tourist service of any description,
means the classification allotted or given to that service in
the register maintained for such purpose as required by law.
(4) Every Price Regulation Order shall come into
operation when such Order is made and signed by the
Chairman of the Authority

<!-- page 43 -->

42 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(5) After any Price Regulation Order has been signed by
the Chairman of the Authority, public notice thereof shall
forthwith be given—
(a) by the publication of such Order in the Gazette ; and
(b) in any other manner as may be prescribed by
regulations made for the purpose under this Act.
(6) Every Price Regulation Order shall, within two weeks
of the date on which it comes into operation, be placed before
the Minister for his consideration, and the Minister may
thereupon approve or rescind the Order.
(7) Where any Price Regulation Order is rescinded by the
Minister under subsection (6), notice of such rescission shall
be published in the Gazette, and the Order shall be deemed to
be rescinded with effect from the date of such publication,
but without prejudice to anything done or suffered thereunder
or any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or
incurred thereunder.
(8) Where any Price Regulation Order has been approved
by the Minister, notification of such approval shall be
published in the Gazette.
(9) Any Price Regulation Order made in terms of the above
provisions may from time to time in the best interests of the
travel and tourist trade, be amended or varied.
(10) Every Price Regulation Order made under this section
and approved by the Minister shall be placed before
Parliament.
54. Where any Price Regulation Order is for the time
being in operation, the proprietor or manager of every tourist
service to which that Order relates shall—
(a) maintain, or cause to be maintained, a register of
prices, rates, fees or charges levied in respect of each
Obligations upon
the making of a
Price Regulation
Order.

<!-- page 44 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 43
of the services provided by such proprietor or
manager and referred to in the Order ;
(b) make, or cause to be made, such register available
for inspection by the Director-General of the
Authority or any person authorized in writing in
that behalf by the Director-General ; and
(c) exhibit, in a conspicuous place and in such manner
as may be directed by the Director-General, a list of
the prices, rates, fees or charges referred to in that
Order.
PART V
C
HAPTER  X
G ENERAL
55. Any expense lawfully incurred by the Authority in
any suit or prosecution brought by or against the Authority
before any Court shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority,
and any cost paid to, or recovered by, the Authority in any
such suit or prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the
Authority.
56. No writ against person or property shall issue against
a member of the Authority in any action brought against the
Authority.
57. Every instrument purporting to be an instrument
issued by the Authority and to be sealed as required by this
Act, or to be signed by or on behalf of the Authority shall be
admissible in evidence and be deemed to be prima facie
evidence thereof.
58. The Authority or any person authorized in that behalf
by the Authority may by notice require any person to furnish
to the Authority or the person so authorized, within such
period as shall be specified in the notice, all such returns or
information relating to such matters as may be required in
Payment of
expenses incurred
in suit or
prosecution.
No writ to lie
against any
member of the
Authority.
Instruments to be
prima facie
evidence.
Authority to call
for information.

<!-- page 45 -->

44 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
order to facilitate the preparation by the Authority of tourist
or other schemes necessary for the implementation of the
provisions of this Act, as are within the knowledge of that
person.
59. The Authority or any person authorized in that
behalf by the Authority may, on application made in that
behalf to the Magistrate, for the purpose of the exercise or
performance of the powers or duties conferred or imposed on
the Authority under this Act, enter upon or into any land or
structure situated in the area and may make such inspetions,
surveys, examinations or inquiries as may be necessary for
any such purpose.
60. (1) Any notice, order, instrument or other document
required under this or any Order made thereunder to be served
on any person, may be served-
(a) by delivering it that person ; or
(b) by leaving it at the usual or last known place of
abode of that person, or in the case of a body
corporate, at the registered office of that body.
(2) Any document which is served in accordance with
the provisions of  subsection (1) shall be deemed to have
been duly served on the person to whom it is addressed.
61. (1) Any person who wishes to be employed in any
travel or tourist service shall register themselves with the
Authority in accordance with regulations which may be made
in that behalf, as fit and suitable persons therefor.
(2) Any person who engages in employment in the travel
or tourist services without registering with the Authority shall
be guilty of an offence.
62. (1) The Authority may make rules in respect of all
or any matter for which Rules are authorized or required by
this Act to be made.
Authority may
enter upon land
&c,.
Manner of service
of notice &c,.
Power of
Authority to make
rules.
Persons willing to
be employed in
travel or tourist
services to be
registered with the
Authority.

<!-- page 46 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 45
(2) No rule made by the Authority under this Act shall
have effect until it has been approved by the Minister. Every
such rule shall be published in the Gazette.
63. (1) Every person who—
(a) knowingly makes any false or incorrect statement
in any application, return or other document made
or furnished under or for the purposes of this Act or
any Order made thereunder ;
(b) false or refuses to furnish any information or return
required by the Act ; or
(c) resists or obstructs any person in the exercise,
discharge or performance of any power, function or
duty conferred or imposed upon that person by or
under this Act or any Order made thereunder,
shall be guilty of an offence.
(2) Every person who commits an offence,  under this
Act shall, on conviction after summery trial before a
Magistrate be liable to imprisonment not exceeding two years
or a fine of not exceeding two hundred thousand rupees or
both such fine and imprisonment.
64. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall
be instituted in any Court except with the written sanction
of the Authority.
65. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then,-
(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director and officer of that body corporate ; or
Offences.
Sanction of
Authority to be
obtained for
prosecutions.
Offences by body
of persons.

<!-- page 47 -->

46 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of that
firm,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence :
Provided however, that a director or an officer of such
body corporate, or a partner of such firm, shall not be deemed
to be guilty of such offence if he proves that such offence as
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised, due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.
66. (1) Any offence under this Act may, if no prosecution
for such offence is pending be compounded by the Director-
General of the Authority on the payment by the accused of
such sum of money as may be determined by the Director-
General of the Authority or if a prosecution for such offence
is actually pending, be so compounded by the Director-
General of the Authority with the concurrence of the
Magistrate, upon the Magistrate recording reasons for so
compounding.
(2) Compounding of an offence under this section shall
have the effect of an acquittal.
(3) Monies paid by the accused person for the purpose of
compounding an offence shall be credited to the Fund of the
Authority.
67. (1) The Ceylon Tourist Board Act, No. 10 of 1966 is
hereby repealed. The Minister shall by Order published in
the Gazette appoint the date on which such repeal shall take
effect.
(2) From and after  the repeal of the Ceylon Tourist Board
Act, No. 10 of 1966,—
(a) all movable and immovable property vested in the
Ceylon Tourist Board on the day preceding the date
of repeal, shall with effect from the date appointed
for the repeal, vest in the Authority ;
Compounding of
offences.
Repeal of the
Ceylon
Tourist
Board Act,
No. 10 of
1966.

<!-- page 48 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 47
(b) all contracts, and agreements entered into by or with
the Ceylon Tourist Board and subsisting on the day
preceding the date of repeal, shall, with effect from
the date appointed for the repeal, be deemed to be
contracts and agreements entered into by or with
the Authority ;
(c) all actions and proceedings instituted by or against
the Ceylon Tourist Board and pending on the day
preceding the date of repeal, shall, with effect from
the date appointed for the repeal, be deemed to be
actions and proceedings instituted by or against the
Authority as the case may be, and may be continued
and completed accordingly ;
(d) all persons who were members, officers and servants
of the Ceylon Tourist Board on the day preceding
the date of repeal, shall, with effect from the date
appointed for the repeal, be deemed to be members,
officers and servants of the Authority ; and
(e) all judgments and orders made in favour or against
the Ceylon Tourist Board and remaining unsatisfied
on the date preceding the date of repeal, shall, with
effect from date appointed for the repeal, be deemed
to be judgments and orders made in favour of, or
against, the Authority, as the case may be, and may
be enforced accordingly ;
(f) all training schools and institutes being controlled
and managed by the Ceylon Tourist Board on the
date preceding the date of repeal, shall, with effect
from date appointed for the repeal, be deemed to
vest in the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel
Management established by section 33.
(3) All permits and license issued in terms of the provisions
to the Ceylon Tourist Board Act, No. 10 of 1966 prior to the
repeal of the aforesaid Act, shall continue to be valid and
effectual as if issued under the provisions of this Act unless
and until permits and license are issued in terms of this Act.

<!-- page 49 -->

48 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
68. The Tourist Development Act, No. 14 of 1968 is
hereby amended as follows :-
(1) by the insertion immediately after section 1 of that
Act of the following new section which shall have
effect as section 1
A  of that Act :-
1A . Wherever the expressions “principal
Act” and “Board” appear in this Act, such
expressions shall be read and construed as
being a reference to the “Tourism Act, No.
38 of 2005” and the “Sri Lanka Tourism
Development Authority” established by
section 2 of the “Tourism Act, No. 38 of
2005”, respectively.”;
(2) by the repeal of sections 77, 78, 79, 80, 81 and 82 of
Chapter I of Part IV of that Act;
(3) in section 103 of that Act—
(a) by the repeal of the definition of the expression
“Board” ;
(b) by the repeal of the definition of the expression
“Competent Authority”; and
(c) by the repeal of the definition of the expression
“principal Act”; and
(4) by the repeal of the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh
Schedules to that Act.
69. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of matters for which regulations are authorized or required to
be made or to be prescribed by this Act.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and  shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified, in the regulation.
Amendment of
Tourist
Development Act,
No. 14 of 1968.
“Tourism Act,
No. 38 of 2005”
and “Sri Lanka
Tourism
Development
Authority ” to be
substituted for
the expressions
“principal Act”
and “Board”,
respectively.
Regulations.

<!-- page 50 -->

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 49
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient, after the date of its publication, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the date of
such disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
70. Where any land or any interest in any land is required
by the Authority for any of its purposes, that land or interest
therein may be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act
(Chapter 460) by the Government for the Authority and the
provisions of that Act shall apply for the purposes of the
acquisition of that land, or interest therein. Such land or such
interest therein shall, for the purposes of the Land Acquisition
Act (Chapter 460), be deemed to be required for a public
purpose.
71. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Compulsory
acquisition of
land.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 51 -->

50 Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.