

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
561
561
wxl 1"752 - 2012 ud¾;= 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'03'30
No. 1,752 – FRIDAY , MARCH 30, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 564
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 569
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 05th April, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd
March, 2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,751 of 23.03.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
562
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
563
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
564
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 30th  Ap ril, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
13th March, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Wennappuwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Pitigal Koralaya South Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Kammal Pattuwa Puttalam
Division
03–1107
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :
(a) Administrative Branch,
(b) Air Field Construction Branch,
(c) Medical Branch,
(d) Dental Branch,
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the
professional qualifications given below :
(a) Administrative Branch :
Administrative Officers - Male (Regular)
* Bachelor Degree in Commerce/Management/Arts or
equivalent with one (1) year post qualification experience
in Management/Accounting ; or
* Fully qualified chartered Accountants with one (1) year
post qualification experience in auditing ; or

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
565
* One (1) year Diploma in HRM with one (1) year post
qualification experience in Management/Accounting field
and a minimum of six (6) passes at the G . C. E. O/L
examination including credit passes in English language,
Science or Mathematics and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/
Tamil langauge in one sitting (additional and optional
subjects not considered) ; or
* Chartered Intermediate Exam with one (1) year post
experience in Management/Accounting and a minimum
of six (6) passes at the G . C. E. O/L examination including
credit passes in English Language, Science or
Mathematics and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered).
(b) Air Field Construction Branch
Engineering Officers (Civil/Mechanical/Electrical) -
Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
* BSc Engineering with Charter in Civil, Mechanical and
Electrical streams, MIE (SL) and at least three (3) years
experience after the Charter ; or
* BSc Engineering with Charter in Civil, Mechanical and
Electrical streams and MIE (SL) ; or
* Bsc Engineering in Civil, Mechanical and Electrical
streams from Universities recognized by the University
Grants Commission of Sri Lanka with AMIE (SL) ; or
* NDT/NDES/HNDE/Open University Diploma in
Civil, Mecanical and Electrical streams with three (3)
years post qualification experience and without post
qualification experience.
Architect – Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
* Candidates with B Arch and Charter or BSc (BE), MSc.
(Arch) and Charter qualification ; or
* Candidates with B Arch or BSc (BE) qualification.
Quantity Surveyor – Male/Female (Regular/
Volunteer)
* Candidates with BSc. (QS) and Member of the Institute
of Quantity Surveyors in Sri Lanka ; or
* Technical Member of the Institute of Quantity
Surveyors in Sri Lanka and one (1) year post
qualification experience in the relevant field.
Surveyor - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Candidates with BSc (Surveying Science) ; or
* Candidates with Surveyor Diploma from ISM
Diyatalawa and three (3) years post qualification
experience in the relevant field.
Note :
(1) Selected candidates will be mainly based in the Defence
Headquarters Complex, Akuregoda, Battaramulla.
(2) Post qualification experience in High Rise Building
Constraction projects will be an added qualification.
(c) Medical Branch :
Medical Officers - Male/female (Regular/Volunteer)
Flight Lieutenant .– MBBS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
(d) Dental Branch :
Dental Officers - Male/female (Regular/Volunteer)
Flight Lieutenant .– BDS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Dental Students - Male/Female (Regular) :
Pilot Officer : Cmpleted 2nd BDS and beginning of 3rd
year.
Flying Officer : Completed final BDS Part I and studying
in the final year.
Note :
(1) Selected Dental Student candidates will be required to
serve an obligatory period of 10 years from the date of
Commission to the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
(2) Selected students will be released from the Sri Lanka Air
Force until completion of final year. They will also be
commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant on
completion of BDS Degree and full registration with the
SLMC.
(3) Opportunities will be granted for Post Graduate studies
depending on the exigencies of the service.
(4) Dental students to submit a certificate from their respective
Universities about their year of studies.
3. Other Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried
(c) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
(d) Height : Male - 5' 5" and above
: Female - 5' 4" and above
(e
) Weight : Body Mass Index should according
to the Physical Efficiency Test
Standards of the Sri Lanka Air Force
Weight (Kg)
BMI ––––––––––
Height
2(m)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
566
(f) Age : As at 31st May, 2012
(1) Administrative Branch : Not more than 30 years
and Dental Branch
(Dental Students)
(2) Air field Construction, : Not more than 35 years
Medical Branches and
Dental Branch (Dental
Officers)
(g) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(h) Colour Vision : CP2
Standard
(i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (With
or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may have a special qualifications may at
the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height provided he/
she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.- Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot
Officer, Flight Lieutenant, Flight Lieutenant or Squadron Leader as
applicable in keeping with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the president’s pleasure”.
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of section 11 of the Air Force Act
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in  the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15( b)(17).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :
Pilot Officer – Rs. 229,200 p. a.
Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 =
Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain – Rs. 441,060 – 18 x 12,600 =
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Pay applicable to Medical and Dental Officers :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 313,920 - 2 x 7,740 - Rs. 329,400
p. a.
Grade II - Rs. 337,140 - 8 x 7,800 - Rs. 399,540 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140 p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 - 12 x 15,720 -
Rs. 697,320.
(c) Other allowances applicable to Medical and Dental
Officers :
(1) Pensionable allowances
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I – Rs. 3,400 per month
Specialist Grade - Rs. 3,400 per month
(2) Non pensionable allowances :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 2,135 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 400 per month
(3) Extra duty allowances - Rs. 15,000 per month
(4) Extra duty payments :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 210 per hour
Grade II - Rs. 280 per hour
Grade I - Rs. 300 per hour
Specialist Grade - Rs. 350 per hour
(5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d) are
to be calculated separately as applicable.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
567
(d) Service Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 5,850 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
(3) Hard line allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
(5) Special hard allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100
will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 13,861.50 per month (if
permitted to live out).
(10) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Sepcial allowance 10% of consolidated salary.
(12) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
(13) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(14) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(15) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
(16) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(17) Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,850 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
(18) Service allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as
applicable (Payable to service Medical and Dental
Officers in consideration to the number of complete
years of service)
(19) Additional service allowance Rs. 1,500 per month
(applicable to service Medical and Dental Officers
only)
(20) 1/20 Allowance - Con pay x 1/20 x 03 days (Maximum)
per month (applicable to service Medical and Dental
Officers only).
16. Pensions/Gratuities .- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :-
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 05th April, 2012
under registered cover. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked  “Application for
Commission in the ........... Branch” Applications received
after the closing date and not in accordance with the
requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
1. Certificate of Registration of birth ;
2. Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
3. Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant.
4. Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc.
5. Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
*Note.– Originals of these certificates should be produced only
if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews, No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(
d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
568
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE
IN THE ................ BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full name (As per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Branch applied :––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
8. Postal address :–––––––––––.
9. E-mail address :–––––––––––.
10. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
11. Height :–––––'––––––".
12. District :–––––––––––.
13. Electorate :–––––––––––.
14. Grama Seva Division :–––––––––––.
15. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
16. Civil status :–––––––––––.
17. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Schoo/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University examination examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
18. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if
applicable ) :
Name and address Nature of Period of Service
of employer employment From  To
19. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present
address
Father
Mother
20. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
21. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
22. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
–––––––––––.
23. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
24. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
25. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
26. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination of
employment :–––––––––––.
27. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
28. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
03–1099

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
569
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  &  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
SRI  LANKA  SURVEY  DEPARTMENT
Examination for the issue of Surveyor General’s
Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman - 2012
THE examination for the issue of Surveyor General’s certificate to
practice as an Authorized Draughtsman will be held in Colombo.
The examination will be in two parts:
Part I - Preparation of Co-ordinate Sheet
Part II - Plan work
2. Part I of the examination will be held on 21st July 2012 and
Part II on 20th and 21st October 2012. Candidates who fail Part I
will not be allowed to sit for Part II. Candidates should pass both
Part I and Part II at the same examination to qualify for the award
of the Surveyor General’s Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman.
3. Candidates are required to satisfy me that :-
(a) They can prepare a co-ordinate sheet from field notes and
co-ordinate a survey traverse;
(b) They can plot a plan accurately from field notes, both by
protractor and from Co-ordinates and  compute extents
correctly.
4. Applications for the examination must be prepared as per
specimen below and sent under registered post to “Senior
Superintendent of Surveys (Examinations), Institute of  Surveying
and Mapping, Diyatalawa” accompanied by a fee of Rs.300.
Payment by cash may be made to the Institute of Surveying and
Mapping, Diyatalawa or by money orders, should be made payable
to the “Senior Deputy Surveyor General (Survey Training Institute)”
and post office “Diyatalawa”. Attach the original receipt or the
original money order. (Please do not paste the receipt or money
order to the application). Remittance by stamps and cheques will
not be accepted. The envelope should be labeled as “Examination
for the Issue of Surveyor General’s Certificate as Authorized
Draughtsman - 2012" on the top left hand corner.
5. Examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
6. Applications closing on 25th May 2012. Applications will
not be accepted after that.
7. Drawing papers and co-ordinate sheets will be supplied at
the examination hall. However, candidates should bring their own
drawing instruments, mathematical tables for computation of
coordinates and all other material they require. Use of non-
programmable scientific calculators will be allowed with the
permission of the Supervisor at the examination hall.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
8. (i) Every candidate should prove his/her identity to the
satisfactions of the Supervisor by the production of any one of the
following documents.
(a) An Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
registration of persons;
  (b) A valid Passport;
 (c) Any certificate, license or other document which
embodies a photograph of the holder and issued within
three years of the date of examination on the authority of
a Government Department.
 (ii) No candidate for the examination shall be entitled to be
examined unless he / she furnished proof of his/ her identity required
by paragraph 8 (i).
9. This examination will be held under the metric system.
S. M. W. F
ERNANDO,
Surveyor General.
Surveyor General’s Office
P.O. Box 506
Colombo 05,
15th March, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
S
RI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
EXAMINA TION FOR THE ISSUE OF SURVEYOR GENERAL’S CERTIFICATE AS
AUTHORIZED DRAUGHTSMAN - 2012
                                                 Index No:
        (For office use)
(a) (i) Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :––––––––––––.
(ii) Names  denoted by  initials :––––––––––––.
(b) Sex :––––––––––––.
(c) Designation :––––––––––––.
(d) Official address :––––––––––––.
(e) Permanent address :––––––––––––.
(f) Date of birth :––––––––––––.
(g) Educational qualifications :––––––––––––.
(h) Medium through which the candidate proposed to sit this
examination : Sinhala / Tamil / English :––––––––––––.
(i) Fees Paid: Rs. :––––––––––––.
(j) Money Order / Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
Office of Issue :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
570
(ii) If the applicant has passed the above examination in
Tamil medium, he should posses at least one of the
following qualifications.
(a) The General Certificate of Education (Ordinary
Level) Examination in six subjects obtained in not
more than two sitting with a credit pass in Sinhala
Language or Sinhala Literature or English Language
or English Literature.
(iii) If the applicant has passed the above examination in
English medium, he should possess at least one of the
following qualifications ;
(a) The General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects obtained in not more than
two sittings with a credit pass in Sinhala Language or
Sinhala Literature or Tamil Language or Tamil Literature.
06. The applicants who possess the required qualifications will
have to appear for a written examination. On the results of the
written examination the applicants who have reached the required
limit of marks will be recrutied after being subjected to an interview.
(i) Syllabus.– Language (Sinhala/Tamil/English). An essay
on a literary or general subject, precis writing or other
tests of comprehension, question on vocabulary, idioms
and their usage or language, correction of errors etc. (The
standard of this paper will be equal to that of the General
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination).
(ii) Translation.– This subject will consist of three question
papers, i. e. :
(i) Translation from Sinhala into Tamil or English
(ii) Translation from Tamil into Sinhala or English
(iii) Translation from English into Sinhala or Tamil.
(Applicants are required to translate a literary passage, a passage
of general interest, an extract from an official report or document, a
newspaper article or a report).
It is compulsory for the applicants to answer a language paper
under 6(i) and two translation papers under 6(ii) above depending on
their qualifications. The applicants should select the two translation
papers in consistent with the post applied for as per paragraph 01.
An applicant who is competent in all three languages may sit for the
third paper too. The time duration for each paper is two hours.
Note.– Marks will be deducted for illegible hand writing and
spelling mistakes.
07. Selected applicants should serve in any part of the Island in
which they are called upon to serve.
08. Specimen Application Form provided at the end of this
notification should be followed in applying for this Examination and
the applicants should prepare their applications strictly in accordance
with the specimen Application Form. A receipt obtained by paying
a non-refundable fee of Rs. 500 to any People's Bank Branch to the
( Attach  the  original  receipt  if  paid  to the Institute  of
Surveying  and  Mapping, Diyatalawa or the original money order
if paid by money order.)
I do hereby certify that above details are true and correct.
 ................................
Signature of Applicant.
Date
03–1133
–––––––––––––––––
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of
Grade II Interpreters in the Courts' Management Assistant
Service of Sri Lanka - 2012
APPLICATIONS are called from those who possess the
qualifications mentioned in this notice to be recruited as Sinhala/
Tamil or Sinhala/English or Tamil/English Interpreters in Grade II of
the Courts Management Assistant Service of Sri Lanka.
02. These posts are permanent and pensionable.
03. Salary Scale.– The post carries a monthly salary scale of
Rs. 15,610 - 10/170 - 6 x 240 - 14 -320 - Rs. 23,230. The initial salary
step would be Rs. 16,290.
(Note.– The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination before reaching the
6th salary step and the 2nd Efficiency Bar without an
Examination before reaching the 13th salary step).
04. Age.– The applicants should not be less than 18 years and not
more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications. (The
upper age limit will not apply for officers already in the public
service).
05. Qualifications.– The applicants should possess the following
qualifications :
(1) Should have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in old
syllabus in all four (04) subjects in one sitting or should
have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in new syllabus
in all three (03) subjects in one and the same sitting.
(i) If the applicant has passed the above examination in
Sinhala medium, he should possess at least one of the
following qualifications.
(a) The General Certificate of Education (Ordinary
Level) Examination in six subjects obtained in not
more than two sittings, with a credit pass in the
English Language or English Literature or Tamil
Language or Tamil Literature.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
571
credit of the account of Secretary, Judicial Service Commission"
No. 297100199025039 of the People's Bank, Dam Street Branch
should be affixed on the appropriate space provided for in the
application form.
09. Application should be sent under registered cover addressed
to the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission Secretariat, Colombo
12 to reach on or before 30th April, 2012. The name of the examination
should be written on the top left hand corner containing the
application. Applications received after the closing date of applications
will be rejected. Applications from officers in Public Service should
be submitted through their respective Heads of the Departments.
10. Any question with regard to the application, the decision of
the Judicial Service Commission will be final.
S. N. G
OPALLAWA,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
Colombo 12,
15th March, 2012.
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF GRADE II
INTERPRETERS IN THE COURTS' MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT
SERVICE OF SRI LANKA – 2012
(N. B.– The form should be correctly and legibly filled by own
hand writing of the candidate. No. 01 to 11 should be stated in first
pages of the application. Write the given number in the relevant
cage).
Index No. :
(For office use only)
01. (i) Last name with initials :––––––––––.
(ii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
02. Sex :
Female 01
Male 02
03. Permanent address :––––––––––.
04. Address to which the Admission Card should be sent to :––––.
05. Permanent District :––––––––––.
06. Telephone Number :
07. National Identity Card Number :
08. ( a) Date of birth :––––––––––.
(b) Age as at the closing date :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Dates :––––––––.
09. Medium of the interpreter post applying for :
(i) Sinhala - Tamil
(ii) Sinhala - English
(iii) Tamil - English
10. Papers you wish to appear for :
(i) 1. Sinhala
2. Tamil
3. English
(ii) Translation :
1. Sinhala to Tamil or English
2. Tamil to Sinhala or English
3. English to Sinhala or Tamil
(iii) Third question paper
(If the applicant wishes to appear
for this paper, indicate the number)
11. If already employed in the Government Service :
(i) Ministry/Department :––––––––––.
(ii) Present post :––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to the present post :––––––––––.
(iv) Date of confirmation in the present post and the reference
No. :––––––––––.
(v) Office address :––––––––––.
12. Qualifications :
(a) State under which numbers in paragraph 05 you qualify :–
–––––––––.
(b) Educational qualifications :
(Indicate results of each examination separately with their
index numbers).
Highest qualifications : (G . C. E. (A/L) Examination) :
Index No. :––––––––––.   Year :––––––––––.
Serial Subjects Grade
No.
(c) Results of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Index No. :––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––.
Serial Subjects Grade
No.
Index No. :––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––.
Serial Subjects Grade
No.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
572
Note.– Affix below the receipt obtained by paying the relevant fee
according to the instructions given in the Circular so as not
to be detached.
I certify that to the above information given in this form are true
and I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination.
I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to
be false or incorrect before appointment I am liable to be disqualified
and if so found after appointment I am liable to be dismissed without
any compensation.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEP ARTMENT
I hereby certify that above candidate is an employee in this
Ministry/Department and that the information furnished by him/her
are correct and that he/she could be/could not be released from his/
her present post, if selected to the above post.
–––––––––––,
Head of Department.
Name :––––––––––.
Stamp :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
03–1128
–––––––––––––––––
THE  MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE   AND  URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
Coast Conservation and Coastal Resources
Management Department
THE OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE
POST OF THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANT OF THE "B"
SECTION OF GRADE II OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNICAL
SERVICES – 2012
THE applications are called by the Director General of Coast
Conservation and Coastal Resource Management from the citizens
of the Sri Lanka, who have obtained the qualifications mentioned in
this notice for the Open Competitive Examination for the post of
the Technical Assistant of the "B" Section of Grade II of the Sri
Lanka Technical Services.
The numbers of vacancies will be 3 (Three).
2. Employment Conditions. – The vacancy of the Technical
Assistant of the "B" Section of Grade II of the Sri Lanka Technical
Services will be filled in accordance to the general conditions
governing the recruitments in state sector and the under mentioned
conditions :
2.1 The selected officers will be subjected to the condition
of serving any area of the Island.
2.2 The employment is subjected to a probation period of
three year. In the event of the selected officer is a
permanent employee in an employment of state sector
such officer will be subjected to a one year of probation
period.
2.3 In order to make the appointment permanent the selected
officer should pass the first efficiency bar examination
before the third salary increment from the date of
appointment.
2.4 Within five (5) years after the recruitment the officer
should obtain the proficiency of second official language
in accordance to the provisions in Public Administration
Circular of 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
2.5 The selected officer will be subjected to the orders of
State Service Commission, the provisions of the
Establishment Code, Financial Regulations and the
directives and regulations issued by the government from
time to time and the regulations of the Ministry and the
Department.
03. Salary Scale. – In accordance to the Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006(IV) and 07/2008, monthly salary will be MN-
3-2006-A., Rs. 15,005-4x180-6x240-11x320-20x360- Rs. 27,885.
04. Age Limit :
4.1 At the closing date of the applications the applicants
should not less than 18 years old and not more than 45
years old. However the maximum age limit will not be
applicable to the officers currently serving in the
government sector ;
4.2 The applicants should be the citizens of Sri Lanka ;
4.3 The applicants should bear a good character and fine
health conditions.
05. Educational Qualifications :
5.1 Pass in G. C. E. (O/L) in six subjects with credits for
Sinhala/Tamil/English language or Literature,
Mathematics, Science and one more credit for another
subject in not more than two sittings ; and
5.2 Pass in G. C. E. (A/L) in three Science subjects (except
General Test) including two subjects of Pure
Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, Combined
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry in on sitting. (It is
sufficient to have three passes under old syllabus in one
sitting).

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
573
5.3 Completion of a course recognized by the Tertiary and
Vocational Educational Commission, on the usage of Excel
and Auto CAD applicable to the official duty field.
06. Professional qualifications.– Applicants should possess one
of the following qualifications with the basic educational
qualifications mentioned aforesaid in 05 :
6.1 National Diploma on Technology awarded by the
Moratuwa University or Hardy Institute of Ampara.
6.2 National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the National
Apprentice and Technical Training Authority.
6.3 Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the
Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
6.4 Diploma on Technology offered by the Open University.
6.5 Completion of the first part of the Engineering
examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Engineering
Institute.
6.6 Any other qualifications which is considered equal to
above technical qualifications by the Sri Lanka Technical
Services Board.
07. Method of Recruitment .– The applicants those who have
completed the basic qualifications should face for the General
Competitive Examination conducted by the Coast Conservation
and Coastal Resources Management Department.
Applicants should get 40% or more marks for every paper in
the General Competitive Examination and they will be called for an
interview according to the order of marks they achieved. No marks
will be given at the interview and the applicants who could prove
their qualifications will be recruited according to the merit order of
the total marks achieved at the examination.
08. Examination :
8.1 The Director General of the Coast Conservation and
Coastal Resources Management will conduct this
examination at the Department at the end of April,
2012.
8.2 This examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English medium.
8.3 The candidates can apply to sit for the examination
at any language medium on their choice. However it
will not be permitted to change the applied language
medium at the time of examination.
8.4 Examination fee will be Rs. 500.
A money order written in favour of the Director
General of the Coast Conservation and Coastal
Resources Management to encash at the Maligawatta
Post Office should affix at the proper place of the
application.
8.5 Subjects for the examination.– The examination will
consist of two papers.  i. e. :
1. Intelligence quotient (I.Q.)
2. Comprehension.
8.6 Syllabus :
1. Intelligence quotient (I. Q.) - Duration 01 hour -
Total marks 100
Evaluation of the applicant's decisions and logical
ways of thinking and the power of thinking,
analyzing and decision making.
2. Comprehension - Duration 01 hour - Total marks
100
Language comprehension and understanding a
document or a memorandum of fairly complicated
paragraph and summarizing and expressing the
basic meaning clearly and accurately in his/her
own words.
09. Method of sending the applications :–
9.1 Following the specimen appeared at the end of this notice,
details with regard to No. 01 to No. 05 should be
mentioned in the first page of the application and the
rest should appear on the other pages. Such applications
should be sent to the address of the Director General,
Coast Conservation and Coastal Resources Management
Department, 4th Floor, New Secretariat, Maligawatta,
Colombo 10, to receive thereon or before 20th April,
2012. The words to the effect of "Open Competitive
Examination for the Technical Assistant" of the 'B' Section
of Grade II of the Sri Lanka Technical Services" should
be clearly mentioned on the top-left corner of the
envelope carrying the application form.
Note .– It is mandatory that the applications of
government servants should be forwarded through
their respective Head of the Department/
Institution.
9.2 The applications that are not duly perfected will be
rejected. No complaints will be entertained regarding the
lose or delay of the applications at the mail.
9.3 No acknowledgements will be sent with regard to the
applications. In the event that the applicants not receiving
the Examination Admission Card 07 days before the date
of examination the Director General of Coast Conservation
and Coastal Resources Management.
Should be notified immediately with the following
details :
(i) Full name of the applicant ;
(ii) Address ;
(iii) Date of the application posted, Registered Number,
name of the Post Office.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
574
10. The applicants should annex the photostat copies of the
following certificates to their application :
(i) Certificate of birth ;
(ii) Certificate to establish the educational qualifications ;
(iii) Certificate to establish the professional qualifications.
The identity of the candidate .– Every candidate sitting for the
examination should submit following document to prove his/her
identity at the examination hall.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
the Registration of Persons ; or
(ii) Valid passport (issued 3 years prior to the examination).
Providing false information .– If any applicant found to be not
completed the required qualifications to sit for the examination, the
candidature of such applicant could be nullified before the
examination or during the examination or after the examination or at
any other occasion. It the information provided by any applicant
found to be false only after the recruitment he/she will be subjected
to dismiss from the service.
11. The Director General of Coast Conservation and Coastal
Resources Management has the discretion to decide on any other
problem over a issue that is not mentioned in this gazette notification.
Dr. A
NIL PREMARATNE,
Director General of the
Coast Conservation and
Coastal Resources Management.
Coast Conservation and
Coastal Resources Management Department,
Maligawatta,
On the 14th date of March, 2012.
T
HE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
COAST CONSERVATION AND COASTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
DEP ARTMENT
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANT
OF 'B' SECTION OF GRADE II OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNICAL SERVICE – 2012
(for the official use only)
Language medium for the examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(write the appropriate number in the cage)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with the initials :–––––––––––.
(In block letters. Ex : SILV A A. B.)
1.2 Name indicating by initials :–––––––––––.
(In block letters)
1.3 Full name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Address :
2.1 Private :–––––––––––.
2.2 Official :–––––––––––.
2.3 The address to sent the examination admission papers
:–––––––––––.
03. Whether the applicant a Sri Lankan citizen :–––––––––––.
04. 4.1 Date of birth :
Year :        Month :               Date :
4.2 National Identification Card Number :
05. 5.1 Gender :
Female
Male
5.2 Civil Status :
Married
Unmarried
Divorced
06. Educational qualifications :
6.1 G . C. E. (O/L) :
Year :–––––––––.   Examination Number :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
obtained obtained
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
6.2 G . C. E. (A/L) :
Year :–––––––––.   Examination Number :–––––––––.
Subject Grade obtained
1.
2.
3.
4.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.03.2012
575
07. Professional qualifications :
Name of the Institute where Duration Grade
Course the course of course obtained
followed
1.
2.
3.
08. Experience :
Vocational Experience Institute Duration
1.
2.
09. Detail regarding language aptitude :
Language Reading Writing Speaking
1.
2.
3.
10. Detail regarding the computer skills :
Certificates Name of the Institute Year Subject
that issued the
certificates
1.
2.
3.
11. Name of the post office where the examination fees were paid
:–––––––––.
Money order No.  :–––––––––.
Total examination fee is Rs. 500. The money orders obtained
from the any of the post offices in the Island in favour of Director
General of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resources
Management, payable at Maligawatta Post Office. (Please affix
the receipt here).
12. I declare that all the details mentioned by me in this application
are true and  accurate. I am aware that I will be disqualified to be
selected if any of these details found to be false before my
recruitment and also I am aware that I will be subjected to
dismiss from the service without any compensation if any of
these details found to be false only after my recruitment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date  :–––––––––.
(Only applicable to the officers currently serving in the
permanent employment of government service).
Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institute
I certify that I have inspected the details furnished by the above
officer and they are correct and if he/she get qualified to be secruited
to above post I can/cannot release him from his/him current position.
––––––––––––,
Head of the Department/Institute.
(Official Seal should be placed)
Designation  :–––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––.
Date  :–––––––––.
03–1081
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.