

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'05'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.05.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1707$15 - 2011 uehs 25 jeks nodod - 2011'05'25
No. 1707/15 -  WEDNESDAY  MAY  25,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
L.D.B. 3/2009
SRI  LANKA  ELECTRICITY  ACT,  No.  20  OF  2009
RULES made by the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka under Section 53 of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009,
read with subsection (1) and (3) of section 39 of the aforesaid Act.
Chairman,
Public Utilities Commission of
Sri Lanka.
Colombo,
24th May, 2011.
Rules
1. These Rules may be cited as the Electricity (Dispute Resolution Procedure) Rules,
PART  I
R
ESOLUTION OF DISPUTES BY THE PARTIES TO THE DISPUTE
2. A party to a dispute who wishes to resolve such dispute may for that purpose send to the other party to that
dispute a written request, setting out the matter in dispute between them and any other facts that such party considers to be
relevant thereto, including a proposal for the resolution of the same. The request shall also specify a date for a meeting in
order to endeavour to resolve such dispute.
3. The request referred to in rule 2 shall be sent by registered post and shall be deemed to have been received by the
other party on the next day of delivery of mail immediately following the date of posting, unless the parties have agreed to
any other means of services, such as facsimile or electronic mail. Where the parties have agreed upon any other means of
service, the request shall be deemed to have been received only upon acknowledgement of the receipt thereof by the other
party.
4. Within fourteen (14) days of the date of receipt or the deemed date of receipt, as the case may be, of the request,
the parties to the dispute shall meet at a convenient venue and on a date and time as agreed upon between the parties and
upon so meeting, make every endeavour to reach a mutually acceptable settlement to the dispute.
5. Where the parties are able to reach a settlement, such settlement shall be put into writing and both parties shall
affix there signature to the document signifying their agreement to the terms of such settlement.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'05'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.05.2011
2A
6. Where, within fourteen (14) days of the date of the first meeting referred to in rule 4 or within thirty (30) days of
the date of receipt or the deemed date receipt, as the case may be, of the request referred to in rule 3, the parties to the dispute
having made every effort to resolve the dispute are unable to reach a mutually acceptable settlement, either party to the
dispute may, by a signed written communication addressed to the Commission, inform the Commission of the failure to settle
the dispute and shall call upon the Commission to resolve the same.
7. The written communication referred to in rule 6, shall include :-
(a) the names and addresses of all the parties to the dispute ;
(b) the facts relevant to the dispute ; and
(c) the resolution sought by the parties, along with copies of any written arrangement that the parties had
entered with.
PART  II
R
ESOLUTION OF DISPUTES REFERRED TO THE COMMISSION
8. Where the dispute referred to the Commission under rule 6 is a dispute that is specified in paragraph (b) of
subsection (1) of section 39 of the Act and the Commission in terms of the provisions of subsection (2) of that section decides
that it is more appropriate for such dispute to be determined by a court or through arbitration, the Commission shall in writing
inform the parties whose names are mentioned in the written communication referred to in rule 7, of its decision.
9. Where the Commission decides to resolve any dispute referred to it under rule 6 through mediation, the Commission
shall for that purpose appoint a panel mediators consisting of three persons (in these Rules referred to as “the Panel”), one
of whom shall function as the Chief Mediaor. The Panel shall in mediating and resolving the dispute have the power to hold
such inquiries and call for such documents or information as it considers necessary, including the obtaining of advice from
any person who has special knowledge or expertise in relation to the subject matter of the dispute.
10. The Panel shall thereafter arrive at a determination of its own for the resolution of the dispute, which shall be
reduced to writing and the seal of the Commission shall be placed upon the document.
11. The Panel shall in order to facilitate a resolution to the dispute before them, shall have the power to :-
(a) notify in writing, to the parties to the dispute and such other parties whose presence is considered by it to
be necessary of the purpose of resolving the dispute, to be present as a mediation conference, either
together or individually, at a time and place specified in the notification ;
(b) call upon any person notified to be present at the mediation conference, to bring any witnesses or documents
who or which may be of assistance in arriving at a resolution to the dispute ;
(c) convene such mediation conferences as may be necessary in order to arrive at an amicable settlement to the
dispute ;
(d) maintain confidentiality in respect of all evidence given, documents and information submitted and of any
other matters that are revealed or discussed during the conduct of the mediation conference ;
(e) obtain the advice of any person who has special knowledge or expertise pertaining to the subject matter of the
dispute, where the Commission considers such advise to be necessary and helpful in arriving at a settlement ;
(f) endeavour to cause the parties to the dispute to reach an amicable settlement which is acceptable to both
parties ; and
(g) complete its proceedings and arrive at a settlement to the dispute within ninety (90) days of the date of the
reference, referred to in rule 6.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'05'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.05.2011
3A
12. It shall be the duty of every party to a dispute brought for resolution by mediation, to :-
(a) disclose fully and honestly all matter which are relevant and necessary for the Panel to facilities the parties
to the dispute to arrive at a settlement to such dispute ; and
(b) refrain from revealing any information of a confidential nature, disclosed or discussed at a mediation
conference.
13. At the conclusion of the mediation conference, the parties to a dispute may, as the case may be :-
(a) agree to a settlement, in which case the terms of the settlement shall be reduced to writing and be signed by
the members of the Panel and all the parties to the dispute. The seal of the Commission shall thereupon be
placed upon the document containing the settlement and a copy of the same shall immediately be issued to
each of the parties to the dispute ; or
(b) not agree to a settlement, in which case the members of the Panel shall in the presence of such parties, open
the sealed document containing its determination made under rule 10 and submit the same to the parties as
the resolution reached by the Commission in regard to that dispute, and issue a copy thereof to each of the
parties to the dispute.
14. Where the parties to the dispute do not wish to accept the resolution reached by the Commission as referred to
in paragraph (b) of Rule 13 as a resolution to their dispute, the Commission shall have the authority to refer such dispute to
be determined either by an appropriate court or to arbitration, as the case may be, in terms of subsection (2) of section 39 of
the Act.
15. References, Communications and Submission may be made to the Commission by registered post, facsimile,
electronic mail or through any other means of electronic communication made available by the Commission. In the case of
facsimile, electronic mail or electronic communication, the reference, communication or submissions shall be deemed to be
received, only upon acknowledgement of receipt thereof by the recipient.
16. Where a dispute referred to the Commission is resolved by a mediation process under these rules, the Commission
may at the conclusion of all deliberations pertaining to the same, charge as expenses of the Commission, such amount as shall
be determined by the Commission and the amount to be paid by the parties to the dispute in equal proportion.
17. In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires :-
“Act” means the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009 ;
“Commission” means the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka, established by the Public Utilities Commission
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002 ; and
“dispute” means a dispute arising in connection with the supply or use of electricity as refered to in subsection
(1) of section 39 of the Act.
06-179
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.