

<!-- page 1 -->

669 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
669
¡â¤ 1,450 _ 2006 °Œ¾ł  16 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.06.16
No. 1,450 – FRIDAY,  JUNE   16,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... —
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 671
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd June, 2006 should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 09th June, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
Note.— Foundation for Civilian Bravery (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 26, 2006

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
670
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B2-B 079230

<!-- page 3 -->

671 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT FOR GRADE II
POSTS OF THE COURTS INTERPRETER’S SERVICE OF
SRI LANKA - 2006
01. IT  is hereby informed that an Examination will be held in Colombo
in terms of Section 09 of Part II of the Scheduled Public Officers
Minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.224/15 dated 23rd December,
1982 in accordance with the rules and syllabus contained therein
appendix ‘M’ for recruitment to the posts mentioned below :
Posts :
1. Sinhala - Tamil Interpreters ;
2. Sinhala - English Interpreters ;
3. Tamil - English Interpreters.
02. These posts are permanent and pensionable
03. Salary Scale.— Rs. 15,540-6x 140-6 x 210-14x290-Rs. 21,700.
Note.—  Efficiency Bar Examination before reaching the salary
step of Rs. 16,100 and Efficiency Bar without an Examination
before reaching the salary step of Rs. 17,430
04. Age.—  Applicant should not be less than 18 years  and not
more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications
(The upper age limit will not apply for officers already in the Public
Service).
05. Qualifications.— Applicants should possess the following
qualifications :
(i) Four (4) passes in G. C. E. Advanced Level Examination in
old syllabus or three (3) passes in new syllabus in one and
the same sitting.
In addition,
If the applicant has passed the above examination in
English medium, he/she should posses the following
qualifications:
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects obtained in not more than two
sittings with a credit pass in English Language syllabus ‘A’
or in English Literature or in Tamil Language syllabus ‘A’ or
in Tamil Literature.
If the applicant has passed the above examination in Tamil
medium, he/she should posses the following qualifications :
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects obtained in not more than two
sittings with a Credit pass in Sinhala Language syllabus ‘A’
or in Sinhala Literature or in  Tamil Language syllabus ‘A’ or
in Tamil Literature.
If the applicant has passed the above examination in English
medium, he/she should possess the following qualifications.
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects obtained in not more than two
sittings with a Credit pass in Sinhala Language syllabus ‘A’
or in Tamil Language syllabus ‘A’ or in Tamil Literature.
or
(ii)Being an officer holding a permanent post in the Clerical
Service “Stenographers Service  or the Typists Service”
having a continuous satisfactory service if not less than four
years in a Court or in a Government Legal Institution.
or
(iii)Being an officer holding a permanent post in the Interpreters
Service or the Translators Service in a Government
Department or being an officer holding a permanent post in
a Government Department having passed the Government
Interpreters’ Examination.
06. Applicants who possess the required qualifications will have
to appear for a written examination in the following subjects :
Syllabus
(i) Language (Sinhala/Tamil/English) An essay on literary or
general subjects, precise writing, and other tests of
comprehension, questions on vocabulary, idioms and their
usage, correction of errors etc. (The standard of this paper
will be equal to that of the General Certificate of
Education(Advance Level) Examination.
(ii)Translation.— This subject will consist of three question
papers. i. e.
(i) Translation from Sinhala into Tamil or English ;
(ii) Translation from Tamil into Sinhala or English ;
(iii) Translation from English into Sinhala or Tamil.
(Candidates are required to translate a literary passage, a passage
of general interest, an extract from an official report or document, a
newspaper article or a report).
It is compulsory for the candidates to answer a language paper
under (i) and two translation papers under (ii) above depending on
their qualifications. Selection of the two language should be consistent
with the post applied for as per Section 01.A candidate who is
competent in all three languages may        sit for the third paper too.
The time duration for each paper is two hours.
Note.—  In all written papers, marks will be deducted for had
Hand writing and spelling mistakes.
07. Specimen Application Form provided at the end of this
notification should be followed in applying for this Examination and
the applicants should prepare their applications strictly in accordance

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
672
with the Specimen Application Form.  F or this purpose A4 size
single sheet of paper should be used (no other size of paper should
be used). The application form may be type-written, but it
should be filled legibly and accurately by applicants in their own
handwriting.
08. Applicants are required to send by Money Order Rs.250 as
Examination Fee in the name of Secretary, Judicial Service Commission
payable at Colombo Courts, P. O. which with should be annexed to
the Application. The Examination fee will not be refunded under any
circumstances nor will be transferred to any other examination.
09. Application should be sent under registered cover addressed
to the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission Office,  Colombo 2 to
reach him on or before 15th July,  2006. The name of the Examination
should be written on the top left hand corner of the cover containing
the Application. Application received after the closing date to
applications will be rejected.  Applications from officers in Public
Service should be submitted through their respective Heads of
Departments.
10. Candidates are required to prove their identity to the
Supervisor at the Examination Center when appearing for each
examination paper. Any one of the following documents may be
used for this purpose :
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) Valid Passport ;
(c) Valid Identity Card issued by the Postal Department.
11. Candidates are bound to abide by the rules formulated by the
Secretary, Judicial Service Commission in conducting the Examination
and those violating such rules will make themselves liable for
disqualification of candidature.
12. My decision will be final on any question arising in respect of
applications.
P. W. D. C. Jayatilake,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Office of the Judicial Service Commission,
Colombo 12,
24th May, 2006.
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION
EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT FOR GRADE II
POSTS  OF THE COURTS  INTERPRETERS'  SERVICE OF
 SRI LANKA - 2002.
(Important : The application should be filled legibly and accurately
by the applicant in his/her own handwriting, Items 01 to 08 should
appear in page one. Where appropriate, the relevant number should
be mentioned in the box provided)
Examination No :
(For official use only)
01. (i) Last name with initials :———,
(ii)Names denoted by initials :———,
02. Sex : (1) Female
(2) Male
03. Permanent Address :———,
04. Address to which Admission Card should be sent :———,
05. Interpreter Post applied for :———,
(i) Sinhala - T amil
(ii) Sinhala - English
(iii) Tamil - English
06. Question papers you wish to appear for :
(i) Language (1) Sinahala
(2) Tamil
(3) English
(ii)Translation 1. Sinhala into Tamil or
English Language
2. Tamil into Sinhala or
English Language
3. English into Sinhala or
Tamil Language
(iii)Denote the number if appearing for
 the third question paper
07. (a)  Date of Birth :
Year ................, Month ..............., Date.................. .
(b) Age on the closing date of application  :
Years ................., Months ..............., Days............... .
08. If you are in Public Service, please, state :
(i) Ministry/Department/Court :———,
(ii)Present position held :———,
(iii)Date of appointment to same :———,
(iv) Date of confimation in same and file reference :———,
(v) Office address :———,
09. Qualification :
(a) Please state under which item number in Section 05 of the
Gazette notification you qualify :———,
(b) Education Qualifications :———,
(Please state the results of each examination separately
with index Numbers) :

<!-- page 5 -->

673 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
Main Qualifications :
Name of the Examination and Year Subjects Results
Index Number
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Index Number Year Subjects Results
Remarks.— Applicants are required to annex the money order
obtained in terms of the Gazette Notification :
1. Money Order No. :———,
2. Issuing Post Office :———,
3. Date :———,
4. Amount :———,
I declare that the Particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and accurate. I agree to abide by all conditions relating to this
Examination and am aware that if any particulars contained here are
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable for disqualification before
appointment and for dimissal from service without any compensation
in the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
Signature of Applicant
Date :———,
Certificate by the Head of the Department
I certify that the above named applicant is  an officer serving in
this Ministry/Department/Court his/her work, behaviour and
attendance is satisfactory and that the information provided by him/
her is correct 6. I also agree to release him/her from the post him/her
from the post he/she now holds in the event of being selected.
Signature.
Date :———,
Ministry Secretary/Head of the Department :———,
Designation :———,
Address :———,
Official Stamp
06-374
MINISTRY  OF  FOREIGN  AFFAIRS
Competitive Examination for filling vacancies in the Public
Management Assistants’ Service Cadre (Stenographers)
in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad – 2006
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for selection of English
Stenographers for appointment to Sri Lanka Missions Abroad, from
the officers of Public Management Assistants’ Service/Provincial
Government  Management Assistants’ Service, Stenographers in the
Semi-Government Organizations such as Corporations/State Banks,
Other Statutory Bodies and the Private Sector.
01. Eligibility.–
1.1 Should be a Sri Lankan citizen and if the applicant is married,
spouse should also be a Sri Lankan  citizen ;
1.2 Should be an officer in the Grade I, II and III of the Public
Management Assistants’ Service under the Director General
of Combined Services or an officer of the Provincial
Government Management Assistants’ Service who is not
more than 56 years of age on the closing date of application
and has completed a minimum of 05 years service ; or
Should be a Stenographer in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
who is serving on contract basis and is not more than 56
years of age on the closing date of applications ; or
Should be an English Stenographer in Semi-Government
Organizations such as Corporations, State Banks, Other
Statutory Bodies and the Private Sector who is not more
than 55 years of age on the closing date of application and
having a minimum of 05 years of experience in English
Stenography.
02. Those who are presently serving in Sri Lanka Missions abroad
are not eligible to apply.
03. Method of Selection :
3.1 Applicants will be required to sit for a test in English
Stenography. The speed in Stenography require for the test
will be 80 w. p. m. Those who have secured 40% or more at
this test will be called upon to sit for a test on computer
literacy and an interview. However, in case if there are
insufficient number of qualified applicants with the above
mark levels at the written examinations, Secretary to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs will reserve the right to call
candidates with lesser marks for the interview.
3.2 Marks allocated for tests and the interview will be as
follows :
(a) English Stenography - 100 marks
(b) Computer Literacy - 50 marks
(c) Interview - 50 marks
B 3  - B 079273

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
674
3.3 The interview (maximum 50 marks) will be conducted by a
Board appointed by the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
04. Terms of Engagement :
4.1 (a) An officer selected will be required to serve initially in
Colombo at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a
specified period not exceeding two years prior to being
posted to a Sri Lanka Mission abroad. If his/her work
and conduct during this initial period of service at the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs are found to be
unsatisfactory, his/her selection is liable to be cancelled.
The period of service in the Ministry can be changed
according to the requirement of the Ministry.
(b) Posting will be decided on the basis of requirement of
respective Missions and the officer’s suitability and
competence (in foreign language, etc). In deciding on
such postings, there is no obligation on the part of the
Ministry to consider the officer’s personal needs and
grievances (Childrens’ education etc.). Further the
Ministry is not bound to fill the vacancies purely in
accordance of the order of merit of the selection tests.
(c) An officer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka
Mission Abroad, is normally required to serve abroad
for a period of three years on terms and conditions as
stipulated by the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
and to enter into an agreement to that effect.
4.2 English Stenographers selected from Corporations, State
Banks, Statutory Bodies and Private Sector have to serve
for a contractual period of 05 years in the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs as well as in  Sri Lanka Mission abroad (02 years
initially in the Ministry and 03 years in a Mission).
However, the period of service in the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and Sri Lanka Mission abroad can vary depending
on the exigencies of the service. They will be reverted to
their previous posts after the expiry of the contract period
of 05 years.
4.3 Officers of the Public Management Assistants’ Service/
Provincial Government Management Assistants’ Service if
selected, will continue to be paid on the present salary scales.
Others will be paid a fixed salary of Rs. 7,800 per month.
In addition, they will be paid an Overseas Allowance that is
applicable, in accordance with existing rules and regulations
while they are serving in Sri Lanka Missions aborad.
4.4 When a selected officer is posted to Sri Lanka Mission
abroad, the Government will meet the cost of air passage to
the country of posting and back, accommodation there and
other allowances as determined by the Secretary, Ministry
of Foreign Affairs during his/her service abroad only in
respect of the officer, his/her spouse and two eligible children.
(For the purpose of this clause “eligible children” means
children under 21 years of age).
05. Method of Application :
5.1 Printed application forms will not be issued. Applicants in
the Public Service should submit their applications in the
specimen application appearing in No. 1. Applicants not
in the Public Service should submit their Application  in
the specimen application appearing in No. 2. Application
should be prepared on a A–4 size paper and should be
forwarded through the respective Heads of Department/
Institution. If the specimen application is No. 1 category,
the front page should contain Item No. 1–15  and the balance
carried to the page 2. If  the specimen application is No. 2
category the front page should catain item No. 1–13 and
the balance carried to the page 2.  Every application should
carry an endorsement from the Head of Department as to
the suitability of the applicant for service overseas, that
the applicant if selected, can be released from his/her present
post immediately and that the particulars given in the
application are correct.
5.2 The application should be forwarded by registered post to
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Organization & Foreign Examination Division, Department
of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla, on or before
07.07.2006 and should be marked “Examination for Selection
of Stenographers to fill Vacancies in Sri Lanka Missions
Abroad” on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. No
application received after the closing date will be accepted.
06. Examination Fees.— Examination fee is Rs. 200. This amount
should be credited to the Commissioner General of Examination’s
Revenue Head of, 4000-20-03-20-13. This fee can be paid to any
Post Office. The receipt obtained should be pasted in the relevant
cage of the application. (Receipt number, date and the Post Office
should be noted). Under no circumstances, the examination fees will
be refunded. Money Orders, stamps or any other receipt will not be
accepted for payment of examination fees.
07. Any application , which is not completed in every respect, is
liable to be rejected. No complaints that an application has been lost
or delayed in the post will not be considered. The certificate of the
Head of the Department/Institution in the application, is compulsory.
08. Admission to the Examination.
08.1 Applications will not be acknowledged. Applicants will be
summoned for the written examination according to the order
in which the applications were received.
08.2 The Commissioner-General of Examinations, will issue
Admission Cards to those applicants who are eligible. A
candidate presenting himself for the examination must
produce his/her admission card after certifying his/her
signature, to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre. A
candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will
not be permitted to sit for the Examination.
08.3 A candidate must sit the Examination at the Examination
Hall assigned to him/her. Every candidate should surrender
to the Supervisor of the Hall, the admission card relevant to
the hall on the first day of his/her presenting himself/herself
for the examination at that hall. A set of rules to be observed
by all candidates is published in the Gazette.

<!-- page 7 -->

675 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
9. penalty for Furnishing False Information :
9.1 If a candidate is found to be ineligible to sit this examination
at any stage prior to, during or after the examination, his/her
candidature is liable to be rejected.
9.2 If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate are found
to be false within his/her knowledge, or if he/she Willfully
suppressed any material fact, he/she will be liable to dismissal
from the Public Service.
10. Identification of Candidate :
10.1 A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the
Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for
each subject he/she offers. For this purpose any of the
following documents will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) Valid Identity Card recently issued by the Post Master
General.
(iii) A valid Passport issued not more than three years
before this Examination.
H. M. G. S. P
ALIHAKKARA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
P. O. Box 583, Republic Building,
Colombo 01.
01st June, 2006.
SPECIMEN FORM No. 1
A PPLICATION  FOR  POST  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANT ’S SERVICE
(ENGLISH  STENOGRAPHERS  ( IN SRI LANKA  MISSIONS  ABROAD
(For Government Sector Employees)
(for Office use only)
01. (i) Full name of Applicant:————.
(ii)Last names with initials MR./MRS./MISS :—————.
(In Block Letters)
Eg : MR./MRS/MISS SILV A M.A.
02. Address :
(a) Official : —————.
(b) Private : —————.
(c) Address where the admission should be sent : ————
(In Block Letters)
03. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :———, Month : ————, Date :———.
(ii)Age as at closing date of application :
Years :———, Months :———, Days :————.
04. Civil Status :—————————.
05. If married, name of spouse and his/her nationality :
06. Number of children, their Names, Dates of Birth and their
Ages :––––––––.
07. If spouse is employed, particulars of employment (if a State
Officer give full particulars) :—————.
08. Educational Qualifications (including medium) :—————.
09. Date of First Appointment under Government/Provincial
Public/Local Government Sector, as a Stenographer/
Typist :———.
10. Date of Confirmation: ——————.
11. Present Grade and Date of Entry to it : ——————.
12. Present Annual Salary :—————————.
13. Nature of Present duties :————————-
14. Speed in :
(a) English Stenography :——————.
(b) English Typing : ——————.
15. Proficiency in:
(a) English Language :——————.
(b) Sinhala/Tamil Language :—————.
(c) Computer Literacy :———————.
(d) Other Foreign Languages :—————.
16. Sri Lanka Missions (if any) in which the applicant had served
earlier and the period :—————.
17. Any other qualifications :——————.
18. Remarks :—————.
Applicants are required to paste the receipt for examination fees
obtained from the Post Office for the correct amount as per
terms of the Gazette Notification :—————.
1. No. of the Receipt :——————.
2. Post Office :—————.
3. Date :—————.
4. Amount :—————.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
676
19. Certificate by Applicant :
I declare that during the five years preceding 17.06.2006, I have
earned all increments, and that I have not subjected to any form of
disciplinary punishment (excluding warning), and that to the best of
my knowledge and belief, the information given in this form is correct
and accurate.
————————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—————.
P
ART  B
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
(To be filled by the Head of the Department)
I have ascertained that during the five years preceding 17.06.2006,
Mr./Mrs./M/s. ……… has (a) earned all his/her increments, (b) not
been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment (excluding
warning).
I certify that the particulars given in the application are correct.
This officer if selected, could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
———————.,
Signature of Head of the Department.
Name of the Attestor :—————.
Designation :—————.
Address :—————.
Date :——————.
SPECIMEN FORM No. 2
A
PPLICA TION FOR  POST  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS ’ SERVICE
(ENGLISH  STENOGRAPHERS )  IN SRI LANKA  MISSIONS  ABROAD
(For Private Sector Employees)
PART  A
(for Office use only)
01. (i) Full name of Applicant:—————.
(ii)Last names with initials : MR/MRS/MISS:—————.
(In Block Letters)
Eg : MR./MRS/MISS SILV A M.A.
02. Address :
(a) Official : ——————.
(b) Private : —————.
(c) Address where the admission should be sent : ———.
(In Block Letters)
03. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :———,Month : ———. Date :————.
(ii)Age as at closing date of application :
Years :———, Months :———, Days :———.
04. Civil Status :————.
05. If married, name of spouse and his/her nationality :
06. Number of children, their Names, Dates of Birth and their Ages
:–––––––––.
07. If spouse is employed, particulars of employment (if a State
Officer give full particulars) :————.
08. Educational Qualifications (including medium) :—————.
09. Name of Institution and the period where the applicant has
served during the five years preceding the closing date (Please
annex service certificates):—————.
Name of Institution Designation Period
from               to
10. Present Annual Salary :—————.
11. Nature of Present duties :—————.
12. Speed in :
(a) English Stenography :————.
(b) English Typing : —————.
13. Proficiency in:
(a) English Language :—————.
(b) Sinhala/Tamil Language :—————.
(c) Computer Literacy :—————.
(d) Other Foreign Languages :————.
14. Sri Lanka Missions (if any) in which the applicant had served
earlier and the period :————.
15. Any other qualifications :—————.
16. Remarks :————.
Applicants are required to paste the receipt for examination fees
obtained from the Post Office for the correct amount as per
terms of the Gazette Notification :————.
1. No. of the Receipt :—————.
2. Post Office :—————————.
3. Date :———————————.
4. Amount :————————.

<!-- page 9 -->

677 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
17. Certificate by Applicant :
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is
true and correct. I am aware that, should any of the information given
by me above are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable for
disqualification before selection and to dismissal without
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
———————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :——–—.
P
ART  B
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF INSTITUTION)
(To be filled by the Head of the Institution)
I, certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss..................................is
serving in this Institution from ....................................his/her work
and conduct are satisfactory, the details furnished above are correct
according to the records available in this Office and placed his/her
signature before me on ..............2006.
This officer if selected,could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
——————,
Signature of Head of Institution.
Full Name of the Attestor :————.
Designation :————.,
Address :——————.,
Date :——————.
06-453
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS AND PROJECT OFFICERS
RECRUITED UNDER THE MINISTRY OF PLAN
IMPLEMENTATION - 2006
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for
Development Officers and Project Officers recruited under
the Ministry of Plan Implementation which should be passed
before the  reach the Third Salary step, will be held in Colombo in
October 2006 by the Commissioner General of Examinations and
that the closing date for applications will be on 14th July, 2006.
02. Scheme of Examination :-
This Efficiency bar examination will consist of the following
subjects:-
(i) Financial Regulation Office System (2hours)Marks -
100
(ii)English Language ( 1 1/2 hours) Marks - 100
Note:-
(a) An Officer may sit all subjects in one attempt or several
attempts.
(b) A candidate should obtain 40% or above, of the marks in
each paper for a pass
03. Subjects :-
(I) Financial Regulations/Office System (2 hours)
(i) State Management Structure of Sri  Lanka
(ii)Financial Management and Annual Estimates
(iii)Orders of the Establishment Code and Financial
Regulations
The following Chapters of the Establishment Code
will be covered I, II, IV , V , VII, IX,XII,  XV , XXIII,
XXVI, XXVII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII
State Financial Regulations - 1st Section (except the
chapter X)
(iv) Office Management
(II) English Language (1 1/2 h)
This question paper is designed to test the English knowledge
required for the Development Officers to carry out their
duties. This paper will be equal to G.C.E. (O/L) paper and
will consist of language knowledge, essay writing, precise
writing, grammar and comprehension.
04. Qualifications :-
All Development Officers and Project Officers recruited
under the Ministry of Plan Implementation are eligible to sit for the
examination.
05. Method of Application :-
(a) An application form should  be prepared on a A4 size paper
using both sides according to the specimen form appended
at the end of this notification. Column 01 to 07 should be in
the first page and 8 upwards should be in the second page.
The form should be filled in by the candidate’s own
handwriting.
(b) Examination fees will be levied from the candidates who sit
for this examination on the following  basis :
(i) For the first sitting Free
(ii)For the whole examination
after the first sitting Rs. 115
(iii)For a single subject Rs. 75

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
678
A cash receipt obtained from any Divisional Secretariat in
the Island Drawn in favour to the Revenue Head 4000-20-
03-20-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations should
be affixed to the application. Keeping a photocopy of the
receipt for the payment may be useful.
(c) Applications should be sent through the Heads of the
Departments by registered post to reach the Commissioner
General of Examinations, National Evaluation and testing
Services, Organization and foreign examination Division,
Department of Examination of Sri Lanka, Pelawaththa,
Battaramulla on or before 14th July, 2005. The name of the
examination should be mentioned on the top left-hand corner
of the envelope. (Keeping a photocopy of the application
form may be useful).
(d) Applications should be prepared in the language in which
the candidate sits for the examination.
(e) Applications which are not in the above relevant format and
do not contain all information and delay to reach will be
rejected with out any notification. No allegation that an
application has been lost or delayed in the post will be
considered.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards together with a copy of the Time Table to all
candidates whose applications have been accepted. If a candidates
doesn’t’ receive his Admission Card at least seven days before the
day of the examination he should communicate without delay to the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign
Examinations Division, Sri Lanka Examinations Department,
Pelawaththa, Battaramulla informing him that he has not received
the Admission Card and giving the following information.
(i) Name of the Examination
(ii) Full Name of Applicant
(iii) Full postal Address
(iv) A photocopy of the application
(v) A photocopy of the cash receipt
07. Identity Cards :-
Candidature will be required to prove their identity (in respect of
each subject) in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor. For this purpose any of the following document will be
accepted.
(a) A valid Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for
Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations has the power
to cancel or reject the candidate of any applicant who is unable to
provide anyone of the above mentioned documents.
08. Heads of the Departments/Offices are requested to
grant duty leave to officers of their Departments/Offices who have
been issued Admission Cards by the Commissioner General of
Examinations to present themselves at the examinations.
09. Any matter not provided for in these Regulations will be
dealt with discretion of this Ministry.
Ajith Nivard Cabraal,
Secretary,
Ministry of Plan Implementation.
Ministry of Plan Implementation,
Central Bank Building,
Janadhipathi Mawatha,
Colombo 01.
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER AND PROJECT OFFICERS
RECRUITED UNDER THE MINISTRY OF PLAN
IMPLEMENTATION - 2006
(Note : This form should be filled correctly and legibly in
candidate’s own handwriting)
(for office use only)
Language Medium in which you
sit for the Examination
Sinhala-2/Tamil-3/English-4
(Put the appropriate number in relevant cage)
01. (i) Surname with  initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :-
(ii) Surname with initials (In English capital letters) :-
Ex: Mr./Mrs./Miss SILV A, B.A.
(iii)Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :-
(iv) Names denoted by initials (In English capital letters) :-
02. (i) Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :-
(ii) Address the Admission should be post (In English capital
letters) :-
03.  Date of Birth :-
Year : Month: D ate:
04.Date of assuming duties as a Development Officers/Project
Officers :-
(The correct date on which duties were assumed should be stated)

<!-- page 11 -->

679 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.06.2006
Year; Month; D ate:
05. Subjects applied for under para 2 of the Gazette Notification :-
(i) ……………………………….
(ii) ……………………………….
06. Are you sitting for the examination for the first time ?
07. If not the first sitting, examination fees paid :-
Fee for the whole examination is Rs. 115/- for one subject
Rs. 75/   A cash receipt obtained from any Divisional Secretariat
in the island drawn in favour  to the Revenue Head 4000-20-
03-20-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations should be
affixed to the application .
(Keeping a photocopy of the receipt for the payment
 may be useful.)
To paste the receipt
08. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this application
are correct and also that I am entitled to sit for the examination
in the language medium indicated above.
………………………
Candidates’ Signature.
Date:-
Note: The candidate should sign in the presence of Head of his/
her Department or an officer authorized to sing on behalf of such
Head of Department of his local Head.
09.Attestation :-
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………….who is an officer
in my office and who is known to me personally his/her signature in
my presence this……………..day of …………………..2006.
..........................
Signature of Attester
(Official Seal should be placed).
Name:
Designation :
Address:
10. Certificate of Head of the Department ;
I certify,
(i) that the particulars furnished above have been checked and
found to be correct
(ii)that the candidate is eligible to sit for this examination.
.........................
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Seal should be placed).
Name:————.
Designation :————.
Address:————.
06-474
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.