

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'11'18
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 18.11.2021
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
ExTRaoRDinaR y
(Published by authority)
PaRT i: SEcTion ( i) – GEnERaL
Government Notifications
wxl 2254$35 – 2021 fkdjeïn¾ 18 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2021'11'18
no. 2254/35 – ThuRSDay, novEmbER 18, 2021
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 35386 – 15 (2021/11)
L. D. - B 1/2010
EmPLoymEnT oF WomEn, younG PERSonS anD chiLDREn acT, no. 47 oF 1956
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour under section 31 read with section 20A of the Employment of Women, 
Young Persons and Children Act, No. 47 of 1956.
 Nimal Siripala de Silv a,
 Minister of Labour.
15th November, 2021.
Colombo.
Regulations
 1. These regulations may be cited as the Hazardous Occupations Regulations No. 01 of 2021.
 2. A person shall not employ anyone under eighteen years of age in any type of work:-
 (i)  as a demestic worker;
 (ii)  involving a slaughter house or cutting, cleaning, chopping of meat;
 (iii)  involving taking care of animals, feeding and training them;
	 (iv)	 	concerning	aquaculture	including	prawn	farms	or	jelly-fish	farms;
 (v)  involving the manufacture, storage, packaging, selling, handling or transport of agro-chemicals including pesticides, 
weedicides or fungicides;
	 (vi)	 	involving	 the	use	of	chemicals	for	processing	of	food	items	including	fish,	meat,	vegetables	or	fruits	and	the	use	
of chemicals to ripen fruits;
 (vii)  involving the production, transport, handling or sale of alcohol or toddy;


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'11'18
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 18.11.2021
 2A
 (viii)  involving cultivation, harvesting, packaging, handling or transporting of tobacco;
 (ix)  involving the manufacture, transport, handling or sale of tobacco products;
 (x)  involving the manufacture, handling, transport or disposal of hazardous chemicals;
 (xi)  involving the use, handling, transportation or disposal of radioactive materials;
 (xii)  involving the manufacture, handling, transport or disposal of lead, zinc, arsenic, mercury, chromium, nickel, 
silver, cadmium or any such hazardous chemicals or substances; 
 (xiii)  involving the manufacture or handling of lime, silicate, asbestos or cement;
 (xiv)  involving the use of chemicals or cosmetics in beauty parlors;
 (xv)  in a spa;
 (xvi)  related to computer or electronic devices that is harmful to psychological well-being or online access;
 (xvii)  in or about a club, liquor bar or a casino;
	 (xviii)	 	dealing	with	the	manufacture,	transport,	handling	or	sale	of	explosives	or	fire	arms;
 (xix)  involving the use cleaning, operating or repairing of machinery in operation and machinery with sharp edges;
 (xx)  in or about a grinding mill;
	 (xxi)	 	in	commercial	fishing	or	deep-water	fishing	operations;
 (xxii)  in or about maintenance of swimming pools;
 (xxiii)  involving carrying of weight or the use of any device that should result in bodily injury within a port, harbour, 
bay, yard, jetty or estuary;
 (xxiv)  involving operating boats;
 (xxv)  involving the transportation of passengers;
 (xxvi)  involving diving;
	 (xxvii)	 	involving	trudging	through	or	plucking	flowers	in	wet	lands;
 (xxviii) undertaken underground or in caves;
	 (xxix)	 in	or	about	construction	sites	except	light	office	work	within	the	office	premises	of	the	construction	site;
 (xxx) involving the smelting of metals;
 (xxxi) involving the screening of sand for glass manufacturing;
 (xxxii) involving the melting or cutting of glass;
 (xxxiii) involving high voltage electrical wire lines;
 (xxxiv) in any location where height is -
 (a) above 1.5 metres (each side) and safety measures are not provided; or 
 (b) above 3.0 metres (each side) even if safety measures are provided;
 (xxxv) involving the collection, disposal or scavenging of garbage or sewage or cleaning of canals or drainage;
 (xxxvi) in or about medical laboratories or requires the use of medical equipment;
 (xxxvii) relating to clinical or biological waste;
 (xxxviii) connected with the tanning of leather;
 (xxxix) involving the collection, splitting, chopping or logging of wood in a forest or in any other work place;
 (xl) involving climbing of trees or felling of trees;
 (xli) (a) involving the lifting, carrying or moving of any load, in the case of males, over 8 kilograms in weight and 
in the case of females, over 5 kilograms in weight, for distances exceeding 50 metres and for continuous 
periods exceeding 10 minutes in duration without an interval for at least 3 minutes, and for an aggregate 
period (inclusive of intervals) exceeding 4 hours in a day; or
  (b) involving loading or unloading of any load to or from a vehicle, in the case of males, over 8 kilograms in 
weight and in the case of females, over 5 kilograms in weight for continuous periods exceeding 10 minutes 
in duration without an interval of at least 3 minutes, and for an aggregate period (inclusive of intervals) 
exceeding 2 hours in a day:

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'11'18
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 18.11.2021
 3A
   Provided, that in the case of males the load shall not exceed 10 kilograms in weight and in the case of 
females the load shall not exceed 7 kilograms in weight.
 (xlii) involving the manufacture of brass articles or casting silicon;
	 (xliii)	 involving	the	manufacture	or	sale	of	fire	crackers	or	any	other	explosive;
	 (xliv)	 where	performances	involving	a	flammable	substance	or	fire	is	used;
 (xlv) involving serving of alcohol in any hotel, restaurant, eating house or liquor bar;
 (xlvi) in or about a lake, pond, stream, river, reservoir, wharf, canal or beach;
 (xlvii) in stone mining, carrying of stones to, or from a stone crusher or stone breaking and stone crushing;
 (xlviii) involving sand mining in or about a port;
 (xlix) involving loading or unloading of sand to, or from a vehicle or a vessel;
 (l) at a lime stone kiln;
 (li) in a mine or a quarry;
 (lii) in a foundry or a metal grinding place;
 (liii) in a kiln for the manufacture of bricks or roof tiles;
 (liv) involving the accompanying of tourists as guides;
 (lv) involving the painting of buildings;
 (lvi) involving the following operations in the manufacture of textiles:-
  (a) yarn making;
  (b) carding;
  (c) spinning; 
  (d) weaving; 
  (e) melting of wax;
  (f) mixing with dyes;
  (g) putting in moulds ; and 
  (h) working with hydro extracting machines;
 (lvii) involving in any of the following activities relating to the manufacture of garments:-
  (a) stacking
  (b) straight knife or band knife cutting; and
	 	 (c)	 finishing,	pressing	and	ironing;
 (lviii) involving the production of rubber sheets by the chemical treatment of latex;
 (lix) involving the providing of security for persons, property or animals;
 (lx) involving the packing, handling, loading or unloading of glass or glassware;
 (lxi) involving tile cutting;
 (lxii) in carpentry involving the use of tools, polishing or spraying wood preservatives to any wooden item or furniture;
 (lixiii) involving levelling, ramping or tarring, for the purpose of road construction or land reclamation;
 (lxiv) involving the harvesting, packing, loading or transport of salt;
 (lxv) involving cooking or baking in commercial establishments;
 (lxvi) on a vessel operationg inland or on maritime waters;
 (lxvii) involving circus or acrobatic performances, others dangerous performances or handling of animals;
 (lxviii) harmful to health, safety or morals in relation to a movie, tele-drama or any other printed, transmitted or published 
material;
 (lxix) involving changing of tyres of heavy vehicles;
 (lxx) in a mortuary, funeral parlour or a cemetery; or 
 (lxxi) which is likely to harm the health or safety of such young person.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'11'18
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 18.11.2021
 4A
 3. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires-
 "bar" includes a karaoke bar;
 "casino" shall have the same meaning as in the Casino Business (Regulation) Act, No. 17 of 2010;
 "club" means a club licensed under the Licensing of Clubs Law, No. 17 of 1975;     
 "explosives" shall have the same meaning as in the Explosives Act, No. 21 of 1956;
 "forest" shall have the same meaning as in the Forest Ordinance (Chapter 283);
 "hazardous chemical" means - 
 (a) any matter, whether liquid, solid or gaseous, the discharge, emission or deposit, into the environment, is 
prohibited by the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980 or any regulations made under section 32 
of that Act; or
 (b) any fuel, the use of which is prohibited by the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980 or by regulations 
made under section 32 of that Act;
 "pesticides" shall have the same meaning as in the Control of Pesticides Act, No. 33 of 1980;
	 "port"	means	a	specified	port	within	the	meaning	of	the	Sri	Lanka	Ports	 Authority	Act,	No.	51	of	1979;
 "radioactive material" has the same meaning as in the Atomic Energy Act, No. 40 of 2014;
 "tobacco product" shall have the same meaning as in the National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol Act, No. 27 of 
2006;
 "vessel" shall have the same meaning as in the Employment of Women, Young Persons and Children Act, No. 47 of 
1956;
 "young person" shall have the same meaning as in the Employment of Women, Young Persons and Children Act, No. 
47 of 1956;
 4. These regulations shall not apply to a young person who is an intern, apprentice or a trainee attached to any Government 
or Non-Governmental Institute or Technical College for the purpose of skills development.
 5. The Hazardous Occupations Regulations, 2010 published in Extraordinary 
Gazzette No. 1667/41 of August 20, 2010 are 
hereby rescinded.
11 - 798
    
 
PRINTED  AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOvERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANkA.