

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF S RI  LANKA – 17.09.2018
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notifications
wxl 2089$17 – 2018 iema;eïn¾ ui 17 jeks i÷od – 2018'09'17
No. 2089/17 – MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
CENTRAL   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
REGULATIONS  UNDER  SECTION  47 (1)  OF  THE  EARLY  CHILDHOOD  DEVELOPMENT
CHARTER  No.  03  OF  2015  OF  THE  CENTRAL  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Sarath Ekenayeke,  Chief  Minister of  Central Province, impose the following regulations as per the powers vested in me by
section 47 (1) of the early childhood development charter No. 03 of 2015 of the Central Provincial Council.
SARATH  EKENAYEKE,
The Chief  Minister and
Minister of Finance, Planning, Law and Order,
Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Manpower, Education and Cultural Affairs,
Tourism, Land, Trade and Commerce, Food Supplies and
Distribution, Investment Coordination and
subjects which are not taken under any other
Ministry of  Central Provincial Council.
At the Chief Minister’s Office,
Central Provincial Council Complex,
Pallekele,
03rd September, 2018.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG4230 – 12 (09/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF S RI  LANKA – 17.09.2018
IMPOSING  REGULATIONS  REGARDING  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  DEVELOPMENT
SOCIETIES  IN  EARLY CHILDHOOD  DEVELOPMENT  CENTERS
1. Following regulations are imposed as follows for the establishment of  development societies with the
intention of productively utilizing human resource for the qualitative, quantitative and structural
development of early childhood development centers.
2.  Development society of the early childhood development center shall be a structure that focuses on
the sustainability of the center comprising of its management, instructors and parents.
3. ( a) Using the development society to improve the quality of the center through development of its
physical and learning environment.
(b) Assisting the management to ensure the responsibility and accountability of the center.
(c) Assisting the management to act with transparency and flexibility.
(d) Assisting the management to make decisions on a logical basis through participation
management.
(e) Prioritizing the basic requirements of the center and influencing the society to achieve them.
(f) Influencing the center towards development approaches with decision making and planning
strategies based on data and information.
(g) Improving the productivity of the center by strengthening the mutual relationship among parents
of the children.
(h) Assisting to ensure the existence and functioning of the early childhood development center
through its main objectives.
(i) Actively assisting in the process of creating public awareness on early childhood development.
4. ( a) A development society must be established in each early childhood development center operating
in the central province.
(b) Each such development society should be registered under the early childhood development
unit of Central province.
(c) Office bearers shall carry out all the administrative affairs of the society.
(d) An odd number of executive members, proportionate to the number of children in the center can
be decided as per the decision made at a general meeting of the society.
Regulations for
the
establishment of
development
societies in Early
Childhood
Development
Societies.
Structure of
development
societies in Early
Childhood
Development
Societies.
Objectives of
establishing
development
societies in Early
Childhood
Development.
Establishing  the
Early childhood
Development
Society.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF S RI  LANKA – 17.09.2018
3A
(e) Only the director of early childhood development unit of central province or his representative
can supervise, acquire information from and participate at the development societies.
5. ( a) Parents of each child enrolled in the center is eligible for the membership of  this society.
(b) The office bearers of the society shall comprise of a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, Assistant
Secretary, Treasurer, Accounts Inspector and Society Members.
(c) Manager/Owner, instructors and assistant instructors shall be ex-officio members of the society.
(d) The posts of Secretary and Treasurer shall be given to the Parents of children.
(e) When appointing members for key posts they should equally represent the area under the
purview of the society.
(f) The Chief Instructor of the early childhood development center shall become ex-offcio Chairman.
6.  ( a) The objectives of the society’s constitution shall be the same as that of the objectives mentioned
in regulation No. 03.
(b) Each development society shall adopt  a constitution that is approved at a general meeting.
(c) Each development society should have a constitution that includes all the provisions regarding
apponting and removal of officers and holding annual, general and other meetings.
(d) When an  office bearer resigns or secedes, all the doucuments in his possession must be duly
returned as stated in the society’s constitution.
(e) If objectives other than those stated in regulation No. 03 are to be included in the society’s
constitution, they should not contradict the aforementioned.
(f) (i) Any amendment or repeal to the constitution can only by done at the general meeting.
(ii) In order to amend or repeal the constitution, a majority of 2/3 of votes from the total number
of members is needed.
(g) Provisions regarding extraordinary meetings and other meetings as decided at the general
meeting may be included in the constitution.
7. ( a) When preparing the constitution, the registered name of the centre should come first and it
should be followed by the term ‘‘Development Society’’.
(b) The address of the society must be the same as that of the address of the center.
(c) The official term of office bearers of the society shall limit to a period of one year.
8. Following decisions can be made at a general meeting :
(a) Holding an inaugural meeting to implement the tasks of the society.
Membership of
the society
Office bearers.
Constitution of
the Early
Childhood
Development
Society.
Name, Address
and Official
Term of the
Early Childhood
Development
Society.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF S RI  LANKA – 17.09.2018
(b) Appointing the office bearers at the inaugural meeting.
(c) Contribute to the qualitative and structural development of all aspects of the center.
(d) Preparing, presenting at the annual general meeting and duly incorporating the society’s
constitution.
(e) Working according to the society’s constitution.
(f) Holding at least three general meetings in the course of a year.
(g) Holding a general meeting within three months from the date of publishing these regulations.
(h) Transferring all the relevant and consequent duties and powers for achieving the main objectives
and aims of the society.
(i) Assisting the duties of the centre whenever requested by the administration.
(j) Decide the quorum for meetings/board meetings/special meetings.
(k) Decide membership fees and the date of collecting fees
(l) Decide the bank in which the account of the society is to be maintained.
9.  Following decisions can be taken at a general meeting :
(a) If sub committees are needed to be established, one needs to specify what those committees
are and under which criteria those committees are to be formed.
(b) Decide the number of members, board members and their positions and the mumber of positions.
(c) Specifying the powers and duties of the sub committees.
(d) Decide the duration of meetings.
(e) Decide the provisions required to implement the decisions made at a general meeting.
10. Powers of the Chairman
(a) Call meetings as per the constitution.
(b) Chairing at meetings and subcommittee meetings.
(c) The Chairman’s vote shall be the decisive vote when there’s no majority of votes for a decision.
(d) Powers required to properly conduct the society in order to achieve its aims and objectives.
11. Powers of Secretary
(a) Call meetings when required as per the requirement of the Director of Early Childhood
Development Unit.
(b) Proper maintenance of minutes of meetings, memebership register and all other documents
and producing them to meetings as set out in the constitution and when required by the
society.
Powers and
Duties of the
Chairman.
Powers and
Duties of the
Secretary.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF S RI  LANKA – 17.09.2018
5A
(c) Call meetings under the provisions of the constitution,
(d) Implementing the decisions made by the board members,
(e) Carrying out organization works,
(f) Maintaining a register of all members of the society and maintaining other relevant documents.
12. Powers of the Treasurer
(a) Keeping records of all the money received by the society via different channels.
(b) Keeping records of all transactions made by the society.
(c) Making payments approved by the board members and keeping those records in relevant
books.
(d) Proper maintenance of documents and books in his charge and those recommended by the
board members.
(e) Present the summary of accounts to date at each meeting.
(f) Producing the books and documents of the society when required by the Chairman or board
members and/ or when ordered to do so.
(g) The constitution enables the Treasurer to spend up to Rs. 5,000 from the imprests.
(h) Issuing receipts when collecting membership fees and etc.
(i) Maintaining the records of membership fees, cash book, Accounts Inspector’s file, cheque
book, receipt books, inventory and other books and documents ordered by the board members
and performing accounting activities relevant to the early childhood development fund/
account.
(j) At the event of resignation/termination, all the documents and goods in his charge need to be
duly handed over to the president or to a board member assigned by the President.
13. Powers of Accounts Inspector.
(a) Annual inspection of accounts of the society.
(b) Producing reports of accounts when requested by the Director of Early Childhood Development
Unit and at the written request of the majority of parents.
14. ( a) The Secretary should possess the following documents and their due maintenance is considered
his responsibility :
(i) Members’ register,
(ii) Minutes of meetings,
(iii) Files containing correspondence letters and documents of the society,
(iv) Other books and documents recommended by the committee.
Powers and
Duties of the
Treasurer.
Powers and
Duties of
Account
Inspector.
Books and
documents that
should be in the
possession of the
Secretary.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF S RI  LANKA – 17.09.2018
(b) Following documents should be in the possession of the Treasurer :
(i) Register of Membership fees,
(ii) Cash book,
(iii) Cheque book,
(iv) Receipt book,
(v) Accounts Inspector’s reports,
(vi) Inventory,
(vii) Other books and documents recommended by the board members.
15. Each Development Society must maintain an account in a bank approved by the Central Bank.
(a) Financial sources of the account shall be as follows.
(b) Membership fees and all the aids and donations received by the Development Society.
(c) It is compulsory to get the signatures of the Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer in order to
withdraw money from the Society’s Account.
10 - 18
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
Accounting
Activities of the
Early Childhood
Development
Society.
Books and
documents that
should be in the
possession of
the Treasurer.