

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 09.12.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
THE  CIVIL  AVIATION  ACT,  NO.  14  OF  2010
Order under Section 6
L.D.B. 6/2017.
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 6 of the Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010, I, Prasanna Ranatunga, Minister
of Tourism, in consultation with the Civil Aviation Authority, do by this Order appoint, subject to the terms and conditions
specified in Schedule I, the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation as the Service Provider with effect from the date hereof for the
provision of aeronautical services at the aerodromes specified in Schedule II.
 P
RASANNA RANATUNGA,
Minister of Tourism.
Colombo,
 07th December, 2020.
SCHEDULE  I
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF APPOINTMENT
1. In providing the services at the aerodromes specified in Schedule II, the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (hereinafter
referred to as the “Service Provider”) shall conform to the applicable provisions in the Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of
2010 and regulations, rules or implementing standards made thereunder;
2. The Service Provider shall maintain in good order all movable and immovable properties which may be leased to the
Service Provider by the Authority or the Statutory Service Provider, as the case may be, for the provision of fuel and
lubricants, and shall not sublease such property to any third party;
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  G 33318 — 30 (12/2020)
Government Notifications
wxl 2205$9 - 2020 foieïn¾ ui 09 jeks nodod - 2020'12'09
No.  2205/9  - WEDNESDAY ,   DECEMBER   09,  2020

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 09.12.2020
2A
3. The  Service Provider shall obtain from the Authority the certificates of competency and licences required for the
provision of fuel and lubricants at the aerodromes specified in Schedule II in order to ensure that services are
provided in conformity with the applicable international standards and recommended practice;
4. The  Service Provider may enter into contract with airlines operating into and out of the aerodromes specified in
Schedule II in respect of the provision of fuel and lubricants under this Order and such contract shall not bind the
State in any manner;
5. The  Service Provider shall when required by the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in writing, furnish to the
Secretary, all relevant data, statistics and information concerning any administrative, operational, technical or
financial matters pertaining to the provision of services by the Service Provider under this Order;
6. The  Service Provider shall provide efficiently the services authorized by this Order to any aircraft operating into
and out of the aerodromes specified in Schedule II  during the published hours of the operations of such aerodromes
and shall not alter, delay, suspend or stop provision of services without approval from the Minister in writing;
7. The Service Provider shall constantly review the market demand and improve, expend or upgrade the provision of
services authorized by the Order and where necessary, ensure that the infrastructure, technology or operational
procedures of the Service Provider would not be an impediment for the growth and development of the aerodromes
specified in Schedule II;
8. The  charges to be levied by the Service Provider from airlines for the provision of services at the aerodromes
specified in Schedule II shall be competitive compared to the fuel prices in the region and such charges shall be
approved by the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister;
9. The Service Provider shall arrange an adequate insurance cover to meet the actual and potential liabilities or
compensations that may arise during its operations and the State shall not be liable for such liabilities or compensation;
10. The change of corporate identity, share capital or name of the Service Provider requires prior approval of the
Minister in writing;
11. The Service Provider shall not transfer or sublease the provision of services to the aerodromes specified in Schedule II
without written approval by the Minister;
12. For the purpose of this Order-
“Authority” means, the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka established by the Civil Aviation Authority of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 34  of  2002 ; and
“Minister” means, the Minister to whom the subject of Civil Aviation is assigned.
SCHEDULE  II
AERODROMES AT WHICH SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE SERVICE PROVIDER
(a) Bandaranaike International Airport, Colombo;
(b) Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport;
(c) Colombo International Airport, Ratmalana;
(d) Batticaloa International Airport; and
(e) Jaffna International Airport.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.