

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 7.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 13,  2007
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 12th July, 2007]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
CEYLON  HOTELS  CORPORATION
(REPEAL)  ACT,  NO . 25  OF  2007

<!-- page 2 -->

Ceylon Hotels Corporation (Repeal)
Act,  No. 25 of 2007
1
[Certified on 12th July, 2007]
L.D.—O. 41/2005.
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  TAKING  OVER  OF  THE  FUNCTIONS  OF  THE
CEYLON  HOTELS  CORPORATION  BY  A  PUBLIC COMPANY  INCORPORATED
FOR  THAT  PURPOSE ; TO  REPEAL  THE  CEYLON  HOTELS  CORPORA TION
A CT , NO . 14 OF  1966 ; AND  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH
AND  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation (Repeal) Act, No. 25 of 2007. The Minister may
by Order published  in the Gazette appoint a date (hereinafter
referred to as the “appointed date”) which date shall be the
date from which the repeal of the Ceylon Hotels Corporation
Act, No. 14 of 1966, shall take effect.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation Act, the Minister shall, in consultation with the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, direct the
Registrar of Companies, under subsection (1) of section 2 of
the Conversion of Public Corporations or Government Owned
Business Undertakings into Public Companies Act, No. 23 of
1987, to incorporate a company to take over the functions of
Ceylon Hotels Corporation as specified in the direction. The
company incorporated in pursuance of such direction shall
be designated as the “Ceylon Hotels Corporation Limited”.
The provisions of the Conversion of Public Corporations or
Government Owned Business Undertakings into Public
Companies  Act, No. 23 of 1987, shall apply to and in relation
to the Ceylon Hotels Corporation Limited :
Provided however, the provisions of subsection (3) of
section 2 of the Conversion of Public Corporations or
Government Owned Business Undertakings into Public
Companies Act, No. 23 of 1987 shall have no application to
Short title and
date of
operation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Ceylon Hotels Corporation (Repeal)
Act,  No. 25 of 2007
the vesting of the ordinary and preference shares held by the
Ceylon Hotels Corporation on the day immediately preceding
the appointed date and accordingly the ordinary and
preference share structure applicable on such date shall
continue to be applicable to the share structure of the Ceylon
Hotels Corporation Limited, with effect from the appointed
date :
Provided further that—
(a) the shareholders of the Ceylon Hotels Corporation
on the date immediately preceding the appointed
date shall with effect from the appointed date
continue to be the shareholders of the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation Limited ; and
(b) the Directors of the Ceylon Hotels Corporation
holding office on the date immediately preceding
the appointed date shall with effect from the
appointed date be deemed to be the first Directors
of the Ceylon Hotels Corporation Limited.
(3) Every reference to the “Ceylon Hotels Corporation”,
“shareholders of the Ceylon Hotels Corporation” and “the
Directors of the Ceylon Hotels Corporation ” in any written
law, notice, notification or other document shall be read and
construed as a reference respectively to “the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation Limited”, “shareholders of the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation Limited” and “the Directors of the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation Limited ”.
(4) (a) The officers and servants of the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the appointed date shall, with effect from the appointed date,
be offered employment in the Ceylon Hotels Corporation
Limited on terms and conditions not less favourable than
those enjoyed by them on the day immediately preceding
the appointed date.

<!-- page 4 -->

Ceylon Hotels Corporation (Repeal)
Act,  No. 25 of 2007
3
 
(b) The taking over of employment in the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation Limited by an employee of the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation, shall for purposes of the Termination of
Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, No. 45 of
1971, be deemed not to be a termination of the service of
such employee by the Ceylon Hotels Corporation.
(c) An officer or servant referred to in paragraph (a), who
wishes to opt out of service in the Ceylon Hotels Corporation
Limited may do so within three months from the date on
which he was notified of the available offer of serving in the
Ceylon Hotels  Corporation Limited. If an officer or servant
exercises his option not to accept the offer, he shall be paid
compensation under a voluntary retirement scheme to be
implemented in that behalf, with the approval of the Cabinet
of Ministers.
(d) An officer or servant who retires under the voluntary
retirement scheme referred to in paragraph (c) shall, being a
member of the Employees’ Provident Fund be paid in terms
of the provisions of sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (f) of
subsection (1) of section 23 of the Employees’ Provident
Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958, the total amount lying to the credit
in the individual account of such officer or servant in such
Fund, as soon as may be practicable after such officer or
servant retires obtaining compensation, under such voluntary
retirement scheme.
(5) The Secretary to the Treasury may, with the prior
approval of the Cabinet of Ministers dispose of the remaining
preference shares after converting them to ordinary shares of
the Ceylon Hotels Corporation or of any rights over such
shares, other than ten per centum of the shares which shall in
the manner directed by the Minister, be distributed among
the employees of the Ceylon Hotels Corporation, who on the
day immediately preceding the appointed date are so
employed, and such shares shall be vested in the Employees’
Provident Fund and the Employees’ Trust Fund, in the name
of such employees.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Ceylon Hotels Corporation (Repeal)
Act,  No. 25 of 2007
(6) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law the Memorandum and Articles of Association of
the Ceylon Hotels Corporation Limited, shall contain
provisions to the effect that the Board of Directors of the
Ceylon Hotels Corporation Limited shall include a member
of the Board of Trustees of the Employees’ Trust Fund.
2. (1) All contracts, agreements and other instruments of
the Ceylon Hotels Corporation, subsisting on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date shall, with effect
from the appointed date be deemed to be the contracts,
agreements and other instruments, as the case may be, entered
into by the Ceylon Hotels  Corporation Limited.
(2) All suits, actions and other legal proceedings instituted
by, or against the Ceylon Hotels Corporation and pending
on the day immediately preceding the appointed date shall,
with effect from the  appointed date be deemed to be suits,
actions and other proceedings instituted by, or against, as the
case may be, the Ceylon Hotels Corporation Limited.
(3) All the rights, liabilities and obligations of the Ceylon
Hotels Corporation subsisting on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date shall, with effect from the
appointed date be deemed to be the rights, liabilities and
obligations, as the case may be, of the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation Limited.
(4) Every decree, order or judgement entered in favour of
or against the Ceylon Hotels Corporation by any Court in
any action or proceeding, and remaining unsatisfied on the
day immediately preceding the appointed date, shall with
effect from the appointed date, be deemed to be a decree,
order or judgement entered in favour of or against, as the case
may be, the Ceylon Hotels Corporation Limited, and may
enforced accordingly.
Savings.

<!-- page 6 -->

Ceylon Hotels Corporation (Repeal)
Act,  No. 25 of 2007
5
3. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
4. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“Ceylon Hotels Corporation” means the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation established under the Ceylon Hotels
Corporation Act, No. 14 of 1966 ;
“Employees’ Provident Fund” means the Employees
Provident Fund established under the Employees
Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958 ;
“Employes’ Trust Fund” means the Employees Trust
Fund established under the Employees’ Trust Fund
Act, No. 46 of 1980 ; and
“Public Company” means a Public Company registered
under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Ceylon Hotels Corporation (Repeal)
Act,  No. 25 of 2007
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  AVENUE , COLOMBO  05  before  15th  December
  each year in respect of the year following.