

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 481
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 478
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"111 – 2019 fmnrjdß ui 15 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'02'15
No. 2,111 –  FRiday ,  FEbRuaRy 15, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th March, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd February, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
475-b 81496- 5,403 (02/2019)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
476
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
477
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
478
Posts – vacant
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Agriculture, Rural Economic Affairs, 
Livestock Development, Irrigation and fisheries & 
Aquatic Resources Development
REcRuitMENt to thE PoStS oF VEtERiNaRy 
SuRGEoN GRadE iii oF SRi LaNka aNiMaL 
PRoductioN aNd hEaLth SERVicE -2019
oN the direction of the Public Service commission, 
applications are called from graduates of Veterinary 
Medicine to select qualified persons for iii posts of 
Veterinary Surgeon Grade iii of the Sri Lanka animal 
Production and health Service. applications prepared as 
per the specimen form given at the end of this notification 
should be sent by registered post to the director General, 
department of animal Production and health, P.o.box 
13, Getambe, Peradeniya to reach on or before the under 
mentioned date. the “Post of Veterinary Surgeon Grade iii 
of Sri Lanka animal Production and health Service” should 
be clearly stated at the top left hand corner of the envelope.
(a) the last date for call of applications is 2019.03.22.
Note.– any complaint regarding the loss or delay of 
an application or a related letter in the post will 
not be considered. Losses arising by delaying the 
applications till the last date for applications should 
be borne by the applicants. applications made by 
those not fulfilling the basic qualifications will be 
rejected.
1. Method of recruitment to the service :
 (i) Recruitment to the existing vacancies of the post of 
Veterinary Surgeon will be made based on the merit 
list published by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine 
of the university of Peradeniya. the applicants 
with qualifications in veterinary medicine from 
a university recognized by the university Grants 
commission will be placed at the end of the 
merit list according to order of the registration 
date pertaining to the year of completion of the 
requirements for registration in the Sri Lanka 
Veterinary council.
 (ii) a number equal to one hundred and ten percent 
(110%) of the number of vacancies will be 
called for an interview and a number equal 
to the number of vacancies will be recruited  
according to the order in the merit list. No marks 
will be given for the interview.
 (iii) the number to be appointed and the effective date 
of such appointment will be decided based on the 
order by the Public Service commission.
2. Conditions of engagement in service :
 (i) this post is permanent. it includes a pension 
scheme. you should abide the policy decision 
of the government which will be taken in the 
future regarding the pension scheme entitled 
for your appointment. in addition you should 
contribute to the W&oP Pension Scheme. you 
should contribute the sum manipulated by the 
government occasionally.
 (ii) The selected candidates will be appointed to fill 
a vacancy in the post of veterinary surgeon in the 
Sri Lanka animal Production and health Service.
 (iii) it is required that you obtain a relevant level 
of proficiency specified as per the Public 
administration circular 1/2014 and the other 
circulars incidental to it. An officer selected to 
serve with qualifications in a language other 
than an Official Language is required to obtain 
the proficiency in an Official Language at level 
iii before he is made permanent in the post.the 
medium of your recruitment will be the one in 
which you have completed your degree.
 (iv) this appointment is subject to the terms and 
conditions of the service minute of Sri Lanka 
animal Production and health Service published 
in the Government Gazette No. 1840/51 of 13-12-
2013 and to the amended orders made to it from 
time to time, to the Procedural Rules of the Public 
Service commission, to the Establishment code 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
to the Financial Regulations of the government 
and to other departmental regulations.
3. Salary Scale. – as per schedule 01 of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016, the 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
479
monthly salary scale applicable to this post is Rs. 47,615- 10 
x 1,335 - 8 x 1,630 - 17 x 2,170 - 110,895 - (SL-1-2016). the 
payment of salary will be made according to the regulations 
mentioned in schedule ii of the above circular.
4. Educational qualifications.– a degree in Veterinary 
Science obtained from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission.
5. Age limit.– Should not be below 21 years and above 
the maximum age limit of 35 years on the closing date of 
applications.
6. Physical Qualifications :
 (i) ability to serve in any part of Sri Lanka by every 
candidate, and
 (ii) Possession of adequate physical and mental 
fitness to perform duties in the post, and the sound 
state of the physical health should be certified by 
a medical report.
7. Other Qualifications :
 (i) the applicants must be citizens of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) the applicants should be of excellent character.
 (iii) the applicants must have registered in the 
Veterinary council of Sri Lanka under the 
Veterinary surgeons and Practitioners act and 
The fulfillment of all the required qualifications 
for recruitment to the post by the closing date for 
applications.
8. The Interview :
General interview; (no marks will be given.)
Objective : To check the fulfilment of the requirements 
of the notification published as per the Scheme of 
Recruitment and the assessment of the physical 
fitness.
9. Method of Application :
 (i)  the application should be made using both sides 
of a 22-29 cm a 4 size paper, as per the format 
given in the specimen application form.
 (ii)  the originals of the following certificates should 
be presented once informed for the interview.
 (a) Birth certificate.
 (b) Degree certificate and other relevant 
certificates.
 (c) two character  certificates obtained 
recently (one of which should be from the 
Grama Niladhari of the area and certified 
by the divisional Secretary.)
 (d) Certificates of the highest examinations 
passed in Sinhala/t amil and English 
languages.
 (e) Certificate of Registration as a Veterinary 
Surgeon in the Sri Lanka Veterinary 
council.
10. Other Provisions :
 (i) the Public Service commission reserves the 
authority to take decisions on matters not set 
out in this Gazette Notification.
 (ii)  the Public Service commission reserves the 
right of making the final decision on the filling/ 
not filling the vacancies, or filling only a part of 
the vacancies.
 (iii) the Sinhala version will prevail in case of any 
inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil and 
English versions of this Gazette Notification.
 (iv) the candidature of any candidate will 
be cancelled if it is revealed to have no 
qualifications.
 (v) if it is revealed that an applicant has deliberately 
furnished some information knowing it is 
false, or deliberately suppressed an important 
information, then he/she is liable to be dismissed 
from service.
by order of the Public Service commission,
 k. d. S. 
RuwanchandRa,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of agriculture, Rural Economic  
 affairs, Livestock development, irrigation and 
 Fisheries & aquatic Resources.
30th January, 2019.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
480
Specimen FoRm oF application
application FoR RecRuitment FoR the v acancieS in the poSt oF veteRinaRy SuRgeon gRade iii oF the
SRi lanka animal pRoduction and health SeRvice
(For office use)
01.   (i) Name with initials:-
    in Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
    in English (block capitals)
   (ii) Names denoted by the initials (in English block capitals):-
02. National identity card No. :
03. Postal address :–––––––––––––.  
 (any change of the address should be intimated without delay.)
04.   i. Provincial council :–––––––––––––.
   ii. district :–––––––––––––. 
  of the permanent residence.
05. date of birth :  year :–––––––––––––.  Month :–––––––––––––.  date :–––––––––––––. 
 age as at the closing date of applications:   years :–––––––––––––.  Months :–––––––––––––.  days :–––––––––––––.
06. (a) Whether you are a Sri Lankan :–––––––––––––.
 (b) Ethnicity (Sinhala / Sri Lanka tamil / indian tamil / Muslim /other) :–––––––––––––.
07. (a)  Gender :–––––––––––––. 
 (b)  Whether married / single or widowed :–––––––––––––. 
08. Educational Qualifications:-
Degree / Post-graduate Degree
obtained
Class University Date of
completion of the degree
1.
2.
3.
09. Number and date of registration at the Sri Lanka Veterinary council :–––––––––––––.
10. Particulars of service: (if holding a permanent post at present)* :
Present post Period of service service station Department / Provincial
Councilfrom to
1.
2.
3.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
481
mINISTRy Of AGRICuLTuRE, RuRAL 
ECONOmIC AffAIRS, LIvESTOCk 
DEvELOPmENT, IRRIGATION AND fIShERIES 
AND AquATIC RESOuRCES DEvELOPmENT
Department of Animal Production and health
REcRuitMENt to PoSt oF tEchNicaL oFFicER 
oF SRi LaNka tEchNoLoGicaL SERVicE 
GRadE iii-2019
aPPLicatioNS are invited by the director General 
of the animal Production and health for the Sri Lanka 
technological Service open competitive Examination to 
recruit for the post of Technical Officer in Grade III of the 
department of animal Production and health.
02. examination.– the examination will be held in May 
2019 by the director General of animal Production and 
health, in terms of the Sri Lanka technological Service 
Minute. the right to postpone or cancel the examination 
shall be with the director General.
03. Conditions of the Service.– Recruitment will be made 
to the post of Technical Officer of Sri Lanka Technological 
Service Grade iii subjected to the general conditions of the 
Public Service and the following conditions governing the 
appointments of the Public Service.
 (i) The selected officer is subjected to the conditions 
of serving any part of the island.
 (ii) this post is permanent and pensionable. you are 
subject to any future policy decision taken by the 
Government in respect of the pension scheme 
that you are entitled to. Further, the selected 
applicant should contribute to the Widows’/
Widowers’ and orphan’ pension fund as ordered 
by the Govt, from time to time.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
11. 1 do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. 1 am 
aware that I will be disqualified if any particulars indicated here are detected false or incorrect before the 
selection and i will be subjected to dismissal from the service without any compensation if detected after 
the appointment. i also certify signing below that 1 have not been convicted of any criminal offence by any 
court of law.
 
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date   :–––––––––––––.
(* Applicable only to the applicants holding a permanent post in the Government)
i.  Certificate of the Head of the Department / Establishment
I certify that the above applicant Mr. /Mrs. /Miss ................................................................ is an officer of this 
department/.................................................. Provincial council holding a post of  ............................ .............. and that the 
particulars mentioned in the application are correct according to his / her personal file. 1 also inform that he / she can / cannot 
be released from this Department / from the Provincial Public Service if this officer is selected to this post. 
(strike off inapplicable words.)
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 head of the department / Establishment.
 (Official stamp)
date  :–––––––––––––.
address  :–––––––––––––.
02–642

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
482
 (iii) The officers, who are recruited under the open 
competitive examination, will be on probation 
for a period of 3 years. If a Public officer 
already confirmed in a permanent post in the 
Public Service is appointed, he will be kept 
under the acting period for a period of one 
year. The officers who are appointed by the 
open competitive examination should pass the 
relevant 1
st efficiency bar examination before 
confirmed in the post.
 (iv) All the officers who have recruited for the 
public service should obtain the proficiency in 
an official language in addition to the official 
language medium in which they gained 
qualifications to enter the Public Service within 
05 years from the date of appointment.
 (v) The selected officer is subjected to the orders of 
the Public Service commission provisions of 
the Establishments Code, financial regulations 
and conditions and regulations issued by 
the Government from time to time and the 
regulations of the Ministry and department.
04. Salary Scale.– MN-3-2016 - Technical Officer III
Rs. 31,040 -10x445 -11x660 - 10x730 -10x750-                       
Rs. 57,550
this post is entitled to the salary steps Rs. 31,040-10x445-
11x660 -10x730 -10x750- Rs. 57,550 of this salary scale. 
(Salaries shall be paid according to schedule - ii of the P a 
circular No.03/2016). The officer of the Grade III should 
pass the 1st efficiency bar examination before the 3rd 
increment.
05. Age Limit :
Minimum age limit: Should not be less than 18 years
Maximum age limit: not more than 30 years
06. Educational and Vocational Qualifications :
Educational Qualifications .– Should have passed 
G.c.E (ordinary Level) examination in one sitting 
in 06 subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/tamil/
English Language, Mathematics, Science, and one 
other subject.
and
G.c.E/ (a.L) in three science subjects in the stream 
of Science/Maths including two subjects from 
applied Mathematics, Pure Mathematics, 
chemistry, Physics, and combined Maths and pass 
the examination in one and the same sitting.
Vocational Qualifications. – National Engineering 
Diploma (for the field of Civil Engineering) offered 
by the university of Moratuwa or hardy institute-
ampara
or
Higher National Engineering Diploma (for the field 
of civil Engineering) offered by the Ministry of 
education and higher Education
or
technical diploma offered by the Sri Lanka open 
university
or
Successful completion of first part (for the field of 
civil engineering) of the Engineering Examination 
conducted by the Sri Lanka engineering institute 
Should have obtained other technical qualifications 
recognized by the Sri Lanka technological Services 
board that is considered to be similar in all respects to 
the above mentioned qualifications as accepted after 
consulting with the Ministry of higher Education & 
the institutes by which the above mentioned technical 
certificates are issued.
Physical Fitness.– Should be physically fit and bear an 
excellent moral character. Physical fitness should be proved 
by medical certificates.
Other :
 (i) applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Should bear an excellent character
 (iii) only when the candidate has completed all the 
qualifications and the relevant age limit in all 
respects at the closing date of the applications it 
would be accepted his/her eligibility at sitting for 
the competitive examination of recruiting to the 
post
7. Method of Recruitment. – all Recruitments will be 
carried out as per the relevant circulars and the Sri Lanka 
technological Service Minute.
candidates those who have obtained 40% marks or 
above for every question paper will be called for the 
interview based on merit. Marks will not be given at the 
interview: Candidates those who were able to confirm their 
qualifications will be recruited to the post based on the merit 
of the aggregate marks obtained at the written examination.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
483
8. examination.– this examination will be comprised with 02 papers.
Subjects Duration Maximum marks Passed marks
1.intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
2.General paper (technical 
and subject related test)
01 hour 100 40
 (i) the examination will be conducted in Sinhala/tamil and English Medium.
 (ii) candidates may answer in any language and all the papers should be answered in one language.
 (iii) Permission will not be given to change the Language Medium applied at the Examination.
 (iv) the examination fee will be Rs.400.
  A money order obtained from any post office drawn in favour of the Director General Animal Production 
and Health which is encashable at the post office, Peradeniya should be affixed on the relevant cage given 
in the application.
 (v)  Syllabus :
 (a) intelligence test-duration 1 hour, 100 marks
  this question paper is designed to examine the applicant’s logical reasoning, analytical thinking and 
the ability to take decisions.
 (b) General Question Paper (Question paper in technology and subject related) - duration 1 hour ,100 
marks. the question paper consists of the below mentioned subjects.
 (i) Measuring and Leveling
  chain surveying Leveling
  knowledge on thiodolite Plain table surveying
 (ii) Construction materials
  cement, lime, sand, granite, paints, varnish, plastic & glasses, knowledge to identify timber 
varieties which can be used as construction materials.
 (iii)  Constructing buildings and preparing estimates
  Methods of construction and situations of laying Foundations, erecting walls, timber roof, iron truss, 
towers, concrete beam and concrete towers/foundation/levels/stair case etc.
  Measuring, preparing estimates, estimating building material quantities and number of labourers 
required for constructions.
 (iV) bending movements/Fiowcharts
 (V) Services-electricity, water, sanitary
09. Method of Application :
 (i)  the application should be prepared in accordance with the specimen application form attached to this 
notification .Application should be prepared on paper 8 1/2x12 (A4) using both sides of it. The Application 
Should be sent under registered cover to reach the director General, department of animal Production and 
health, P.o.box 13,Getambe,Peradeniya on or before 08.03.2019. the words “ competitive Examination 
for the Recruitment to the Post of Technical Officer Grade III” should be written clearly on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope. the applications received after the closing date will be rejected.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
484
Note :
 (i)  the candidates who are in the Public Service should forward their application through the head of the 
department / institute.
 (ii) incomplete applications will be rejected. No allegation that an application has been delayed or lost in 
the post will be considered.
 (iii) application will not be acknowledged. a notice announcing the date of the examination will be published 
in the newspapers. if admissions are not received within four days prior to the date of the examination, 
the candidates are requested to inform the director General, department of animal Production & health 
immediately with the following particulars.
 (i) Full name of the applicant
 (ii) address
 (iii) Date of posting, registered No. and post office
10. the Photostat copies of the following should be attached to the application.
 i. Certificate of Birth
 ii. Educational /V ocational Certificates
Identity of the Candidate.– Every candidate is required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the Supervisor. the following documents are accepted for that purpose.
 i. National identity card issued by the commissioner General of Registration of Persons.
 ii. a valid Passport (issued 3 years prior to the date of the examination )
Submission of False Information :
If it reveals that a candidate has not gained the required qualifications to sit for the examination his / her 
candidature can be cancelled before or during the examination or after the examination or at any stage. if it 
appears that a candidate has submitted false information knowingly he / she will be dismissed from service.
the candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the general conditions pertaining to the appointment 
to the Public Service stipulated in the Paragraph (3) of this Gazette notification and rules and regulations for 
the candidates.
11. if Sinhala /tamil or English versions of the Gazette notification are comparative the Sinhala version will be 
accepted.
12. the director General, department of animal Production and health deserves himself the right to take a decision 
with regard to a problem arisen about the number to be recruited and that will be the final decision.
 dr.  k. d. 
aRiyapala,
 director General of animal Production and health(c.d).
department of animal Production and health,
Peradeniya,
29th January, 2019.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
485
miniStRy oF agRicultuRe, RuRal economic aFFaiRS, 
liveStock development
iRRigation and FiSheRieS and aquatic ReSouRceS 
development
depaRtment oF animal pRoduction and health
APPLICATIOn FOR The POST OF TeChnICAL 
OFFICeR OF SRI LAnkA TeChnOLOGICAL
SeRvICe GRADe III-2019
Medium selected  
     (For office use only) 
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
Sinhala  - 2
tamil  - 3 
English  - 4  
01. Name
  1.1 Name with initials (in block letters) :–––––––––.
   (Example. SiLVa. b.a.) 
  1.2 Full Name in Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
  1.3 N.i.c.No. :
02. address:
 Private address :–––––––––––––.
 Official Address :–––––––––––––.
 the address to which the admission card should be 
  sent :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) telephone Numbers :
   Mobile :–––––––––––––.
   Fixed :–––––––––––––.
03.   3.1 Gender (Mark the relevant cage) :
   Female :
   Male :
  3.2 date of birth : 
   y ear : Month : date :
  3.3 age as at the closing date of the application : 
   yea rs : Months :  days :
  3.4 civil Status : (Mark the relevant cage) :
   Married :
   Single :
04. Educational Qualifications : 
  4.1 G. c. E. (a/L) : 
   y ear :–––––––––––––.  Month :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index no. 
  4.2 G. c. E. (o/L) : 
   y ear :–––––––––––––.  Month :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index no. 
 4.3 (a) the institute from where the vocational 
qualifications obtained :–––––––––––––.
  (b)  The year in which the vocational qualifications 
obtained :–––––––––––––.
05. the present occupation and the previous posts held (if 
available) :
Post Institute From To
06. The name of the post office to which the examination 
fees had been paid  :–––––––––––––.
 No. of the Money order  :–––––––––––––.
the examination fee is Rs. 400 and can be paid 
to any post office in the island in favour of the 
director General, animal Production and health 
Paying office : Peradeniya
Affix the receipt here. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
486
07. i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that if any of 
the information furnished by me is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be 
dismissed without any compensation if such detection is made after appointment. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date  :–––––––––––––.
Relevant only for officers those who are holding permanent posts in the public service at present. 
Certificate of the Head of the Department : 
i certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................................................... is serving in this department as a ..
.................................. and foregoing particulars were checked by me and found to be correct. he/She could/could not be 
released from the present post held by him/her if selected for the above post. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  head of the department.
  (Rubber stamp should be placed)
designation  :–––––––––––––.
address  :–––––––––––––.
date  :–––––––––––––.
02–621
––––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND 
INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
Recruitment (Limited) to the Post of Nutritionist 
in Grade II belonging to Field / Office based 
Officer Segment 02 Service Category 
(mN 05 - 2006 A) - 2018
aPPLicatioNS are called for recruitment (on the 
limited basis) to the post of Nutritionist in Grade 
ii belonging to the Field / Office based Officer 
Segment 02 Service category (MN 05 - 2006 a) to 
fill the vacancies available at hospitals and institutions under 
the Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
01. Method Basic of Recruitment.– out of the applicants 
those who have satisfied the qualifications given in this 
notification candidates will be recruited to fill the available 
vacancies on the order of merits of the marks obtained at 
the written examination which will be conducted by the 
Secretary of the Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine or an institution approved by the Secretary and on 
the marks obtained at the interview conducted to assess the 
candidates’ eligibility (Number of recruits will be determined 
by the Secretary, Ministry of health based on the 
number of vacancies available under the Ministry 
and the service exigency of the Ministry.
02. Required Qualifications :
 i. Educational Qualifications :
  Shall have obtained a Special degree in Food 
Science and Nutrition from a university 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission
  or
  Shall have obtained a BSC Degree with first / 
second class division and a Post graduate degree 
in Food Science from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission.
 ii. experience :
  Shall be a public Officer confirmed in the service 
who completes a satisfactory service period 
during the preceding five (05) years and receives 
salaries under the salary code MN - 04 - 2006 a
 iii. Physical Fitness :
  Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in 
any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge the duties 
of the post.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
487
03. Other :
 (i) Shall have fulfilled all qualifications as at 15.03.2019.
 (ii) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (iii) Shall be of an excellent character.
04. Age limit.– not relevant
05. Written Test :
Question Paper Duration Maximum Marks Pass 
Mark
Syllabus
Subject Related 
test
02 hours 100 40% To test the candidates’ ability in general field based subject 
matters and practical applications relevant to the post
06. Salary scale.– in terms of the Schedule in of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 
monthly salary scale applicable to this post is Rs. 34,605 - 10 x 660 - 11 x 755 x 15 x 930 - Rs. 63,460 (MN - 05 - 2016 (a) 
you will be paid salaries in terms of the provisions of the above circular and as mentioned in schedule ii there of.
07. Eligibility evaluation interview will base on the following marking scheme.
Index
no.
Main heads under which 
marks are given
Marks will be given under the following headings Maximum
marks
01 Service experience in the 
relevant field
05 marks per one (01) year for the service experience in a field 
relevant to the applied post in the Public Service or Provincial Public 
service. (in addition to the basic period of experience required)
40
02 additional educational
qualifications
02.1 Marks will be given for the following in addition to the 
educational qualifications.
20
i. 10 marks per Post graduate degree in Food and Nutrition or Food 
and technology
II. 05 marks per Postgraduate Diploma relevant to the field 10
03 Researches and publications  
relevant to the field
05 marks per Research and publication (published in an recognized 
journal / for which a number has been obtained from the books 
Publication Board) relevant to the field (related to Human Nutrition.)
25
04 Performance shown at the 
interview
05
total marks 100
08. Terms of engagement in service and service conditions :
 i. Recruits shall be willing to serve in any part of the island.
 ii. this post is permanent and you will be subject to any policy decision taken by the Government regarding 
the Pensions scheme in future. Further, you shall contribute to the Windows’ / Widowers’ and orphans’ 
Pension scheme as prescribed by the Government from time to time.
 iii. Applications should be certified by the Head of the Department / Institution.
 iV . Experience should be certified by the Head of the Department.
 V.  this appointment is subject to a probation period of one (01) year

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
488
 Vi. Relevant level of language proficiency shall be obtained in terms of the Public Administration Circular 
01/2014 and circulars subsequent thereto.
 Vii. a number of candidates twice the number of available vacancies or at least 05 candidates will be called 
for the eligibility assessment interview in the order of merits of marks obtained by the candidates at the 
written examination.
 Viii. Recruitments will be made in the order of merits of the aggregate marks obtained by the candidates at the 
written test and the eligibility evaluation interview based on the number of vacancies available.
 iX. Qualifications of candidates will also be checked at the eligibility evaluation interview.
09. Method of Application :
 i. applications should be forwarded to reach the following address on or before 15.03.2019. applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected.
  director (admin) 07
  Ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero 
Mawatha colombo 10.
 ii. the words “application for Recruitment (Limited) to the post of Nutritionist” should be mentioned on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
 iii. Further correspondence in this regard may proceed via e-mail. therefore it is compulsory to mention your 
e - mail address which is in use and be on the alert.
 iV . Examination fee - Examination fee which is Rs. 500/= should be paid to any branch of bank of ceylon to be 
credited to the account No. 7041318 in the name of “director General of health Services”, at thaprobane 
Branch, Bank of Ceylon. The receipt issued for the payment should be affixed in the cage given in the 
application not so as to be detached.
 V.  Applications not complying with the specimen form of application appended at the end of this notification 
will be rejected. complaints on loss or delay of applications in the post shall not be entertained.
 Vi. Applications which do not comply with the terms of this notification shall be rejected.
 Vii. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
 Viii. Eligible candidates will be called for the examination and they will be notified thereon two weeks before 
the examination to the address indicated in the application.
Note:
 • Candidate shall certify that each section of the application is filled and the particulars furnished in the 
application are correct.
 • All recruits shall be subject to all rules and regulations applicable to Public Officers, provisions of the 
Establishments code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, provisions of the Scheme of Recruitment 
for field / Office based Officer Segment 02 (MN 05 - 2006 A), policies prescribed by the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous Medicine, Financial Regulations and other regulations and rules and regulations 
imposed by the government from time to time.
 •  Any matter regarding recruitment to this post which has been provided/not provided for in this General 
circular will be determined by the Secretary of Ministry of health. in case of any inconsistency between the 
texts in Sinhala, tamil and English language, the text in Sinhala language shall prevail.
 geethamani c. kaRunaRathne, 
 actg. Secretary, 
 Ministry of health, Nutrition & indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of health, Nutrition & indigenous Medicine,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
30th January, 2019.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
489
SPEciMEN FoRM oF aPPLicatioN
RecRuitment (limited) to the poSt oF nutRitioniSt oF the miniStRy oF health,
nutRition and indigenouS medicine
district of Residence :   Language Medium of Examination : 
(Sinhala - S/ English - E/ tamil - t)
01.  i.  Name with initials (in Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
  ii. Name with initials in English block capitals :––––––––––––.
  iii. Full Name (in Sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––––.
  iV . Full Name ( in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent Residential address :
  i. in Sinhala / tamil :––––––––––––.
  ii. in English block capitals :––––––––––––.
03. Address (Official) :
 (any change of the address should be informed immediately)
  iii. in Sinhala/ tamil :––––––––––––. 
  iV . in English block capitals :––––––––––––.
04. E-mail address :––––––––––––.
05. telephone number :––––––––––––.
06. date of birth :––––––––––––.
07. National identity card No. :––––––––––––.
08. Gender (Male/ Female) :––––––––––––.
09. Whether you are a Sri Lanka citizen :––––––––––––.
10. district indicated by the candidate as his/ her permanent residential district :––––––––––––.
11. civil Status (Married/ Single) :––––––––––––.
12. Qualifications :
 (Qualifications given under paragraph 02 of the notification)
 Educational Qualifications :––––––––––––.
 Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––.
 Experience :––––––––––––.
13. Particulars of the receipt for payment of examination fees :
  13.1 Office at which examination fee was paid  :––––––––––––.
  13.2 Number and date of receipt :––––––––––––.
  13.3 amount paid :––––––––––––.
Firmly paste here the receipt issued by a branch of bank of ceylon for the payment of Rs. 500.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
14. To be filled by the Head of the Department/ Institution
  i. Name of the officer :––––––––––––.
  ii. National identity card No. :––––––––––––. 
  iii. the post held at the time of application to the examination :––––––––––––.
  iV . has a continuous service period of 05 years been completed as at closing date of applications :––––––––––––.
  V.  Has a letter of confirmation in the appointment been issued ? If issued, attach a certified copy of the letter of 
confirmation :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
490
  Vi. have all increments been earned during the period of 05 years immediately prior to the closing date of applications  
:––––––––––––.
   if so, particulars :––––––––––––.
  Vii. has the candidate been subjected to any disciplinary punishment during the period of 05 years immediately prior 
to the closing date of applications :––––––––––––.
   (if yes, give particulars)
  Viii. Is there any disciplinary enquiry pending against the candidate? :––––––––––––.
   (if yes, give particulars)
  iX. Has the candidate been convicted by any court of law ? :––––––––––––.
   (if yes, give particulars)
15. Certificate of the Applicant :
i declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that my 
application will be cancelled if any particular containing in the application is found to be incorrect or false before selection 
and i am liable to be dismissed from service without any compensation if found so after selection.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
16. Recommendation of the head of the department/institution :
i certify that the applicant Mr./ Mrs./ Miss .........................................................................................is serving in 
this department/ Provincial council/ institution from ......................... he/ She holds a permanent and pensionable post. he/ 
She has earned all increments during the past  ..................................... years and has not been subject to any disciplinary 
punishment of any kind (except warning) and all the particulars furnished above were checked referring to the records 
available at this office and found correct and he/ she can/cannot be released from the present post if selected, and he/she 
placed his/ her signature in my presence on .........................................
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department/institution.
Name :––––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
department/ institution :–––––––––––––.
(Rubber Stamp)
02–534
––––––––––––––––––––
OPEN WRITTEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION fOR RECRuITmENT TO GRADE III Of ThE 
COuRT  REGISTRARS' SERvICE Of SRI LANkA IN ThE SChEDuLED PubLIC OffICERS' 
SERvICE - 2018(2019)
thE notice to call for applications for above mentioned competitive Examination (Sinhala/t amil/English) was published 
in the Gazette No. 2110 dated 08.02.2019 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 
02. It is informed that paragraph 04 of the Tamil notification should be amended as follows :
04. Recruitment Qualifications.– Applicants shall have completed following qualifications to be recruited to Grade 
III of Court Registrars' Service of Sri Lanka in the Scheduled Public Officers' Service. 
Vf

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2019
491
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.
(a) (i) be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) applicant should be a person of an excellent moral character, 
 (iii) All the applicants recruited to the Scheduled Public Officers' Service shall have a sound physical and 
mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the duties of the post. 
(b) attorney-at-Law of the Supreme court ;
or
(c) Shall have obtained a degree from a university Recognized by the university Grants commission or an 
institute recognized by the university Grants commission as a degree awarding institute or any other 
qualification considered as equivalent by the Judicial Service Commission. 
Note.– date of enrolment as an attorney-at-Law or the effective date of the degree should be on or before the 
closing date of the application. 
(d) Age.– Should be not less than 22 years and not more than 45 years of age on the closing date of applications. 
 
 "accordingly only whose date of birth falls on 08.02.1997 or prior to said date and whose date of birth falls 
on 08.02.1974 or after said date will qualify to apply".
 (The upper age limit shall not be applicable to officers who are alerady in the Government Service, Provincial 
Public Service and Scheduled Public Officers' Service)
N. B.– It is compulsory that every applicant should have fulfilled all the qualifications required for the respective 
post by 08th February 2019, which is the date of the Gazette notification, or prior to said date. 
03. other conditions stipulated in above Gazette notification remain unchanged. 
 h. S. 
SomaRatne, 
 Secretary, 
 Judicial Service commission. 
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12, 
11th February, 2019. 
02–878
  