

<!-- page 1 -->

199
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025. 03'21
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 21.03.2025
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(P ublished by Authority)
PART  II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR   PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
Attention  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of pub lication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th April, 2025 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th March, 2025 
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 K.G. Pradeep Pushpa kumara,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
02
nd January, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
19 - 82664- 177 (03/2025)
 Page Page
 
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases  ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... 20
Miscellaneous Notices .... 21
wxl 2"429 - 2025 ud¾;= ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2025 .03'21
no. 2,429 - FRIDAy, MARCh 21, 2025


<!-- page 2 -->

20
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025.03'21
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 21.03.2025
List of Notaries
mInISTR y of PubLIc ADmInISTRATIon, PRovIncIAL  councILS  AnD LocAL  
GoveRnmenT
notaries ordinance (chapter 107)
ThIS is to certify that the resignation of Mr. Rozen Mario Madawala, Notary Public, with effect from 20.09.2024 who carried 
on duty in Sinhala & English Languages within Negombo high Court Zone, has been approved by the Minister of Public 
Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government.
 S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration,
 Provincial Councils and Local Government.
On the day of 21st  February, 2025.
At Colombo.
03-117
Miscellaneous Notices
PARLIAmenT
An Act to Incorporate the Akurana baithuz zakath
I, Imran Maharoof, do hereby give notice under No. 53(1) of the Standing order of the Parliament of the  Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to incorporate the Akurana Baithuz 
Zakath".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Association which has the following general objects:-
a) To collect donations from the individuals among the Muslim community and to distribute such funds among the 
poor's in meaningful way to eliminate poverty;
b) To run a fulltime and a part-time Quran madrasa for the benefit of children and adults;
c) To maintain a library with the collections of books of Islam in Tamil, Sinhala and English; and
d) To take meaningful actions to promote peace, harmony  and understandings among the various religious belief within 
Sri Lanka.
       etc.
 Imran Maharoof,
 Member of Parliament,
 Trincomalee District.
03-128

<!-- page 3 -->

21
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025.03'21
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 21.03.2025
PRINTED   AT   ThE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.
PARLIAmenT
A bill to establish an International human Rights enforcement commission
Chanaka Madhugoda, I hereby give notice that I intend to introduce a Bill in Parliament, entitled "A Bill to establish an 
International human Rights Enforcement Commission," under Standing Order No. 53 (1) of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The objectives of the Bill are to establish a foundation with the following general objectives : 
a) To advocate for human rights,
b) To file human rights complaints,
c) To assist in filling lawsuits related to human rights violations,
d) To conduct human rights training programs and issue recognized certificates,
e) To conduct human rights awareness workshops,
f) To train human rights officers and issue recognized certificates and identification cards,
g) To provide legal assistance,
h) To participate in election monitoring activities.
 Chanaka Madhugoda,
 Member of Parliament,
 Galle District.
03-151