

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'05'20
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1706$18 - 2011 uehs 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'05'20
No. 1706/18  -  FRIDAY  MAY  20,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
INLAND  REVENUE  ACT,  No.  10 OF  2006
Order under Section 4(2)
I, Kande Mohottalalage Sunil Kandegedara, Commissioner General of lnland Revenue, do by this order [under the proviso
to Sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006], specify the value to be placed on any benefit set
out in the Schedule hereto, with effect from 1st April, 2011, notwithstanding any other value already determined for any such
benefit for the purpose of that Section, but subject to any exemption provided under the said Inland Revenue Act (as last
amended by Act, No. 22 of 2011).
S. K
ANDEGEDARA,
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue.
Department of  Inland Revenue,
Colombo 02,
May 13, 2011.
SCHEDULE
1. Value of Company shares awarded by Employer
‘‘Value’’ of any benefit accruing to any employee of an employer, from the allotment of any share or awarding an
option to acquire any share, to such employee or his nominee, by or on behalf of such employer, means : the excess, if any,
of the market value of such share at the time of its allotment (made directly or on exercising an option), or of proceeds from
the sale of option, over the price charged by the employer for such allotment or award, as the case may be.
2. Value of benefits from any residence provided by the Employer
(a) The ‘‘Rental value’’ for the purpose of Section 4(1)(d), of any place of residence provided by the employer in
the respective situations (in relation to which the basis of valuation is not specified in that section), should be ascertained
as follows :–
(i) where such place of residence is situated in an unrated area, the rental value shall be 10% of the gross
remuneration or Rs.3,000 per month; whichever is low.
(ii) where such place is an Estate Bungalow, the rental value shall be 7.5% of the gross remuneration or
Rs. 2,000 per month; whichever is low.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'05'20
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2011
2A
(b) If the place of residence is furnished, 2.5% of the gross remuneration or Rs. 1,500 per month, whichever is low,
should be added to the benefit determined as above.
(c) In any case, where the employer reimburses any expense connected with a house or apartment occupied by
the employee, the value of such benefit shall be the actual expense reimbursed by the employer.
3. Value of Transport Facilities provided by the Employer
(a) The value of the benefit to an employee from the (fully or partly) private use of any motor vehicle, of which the
engine capacity is 1500cc or more –
(i) provided by the employer with the driver and fuel on such employer’s account, shall be deemed to be
Rupees Fifty Thousand per month;
(ii) provided by the employer with fuel on such employer’s account, but without the driver, shall be deemed
to be Rupees Thirty Five Thousand per month;
(iii) provided by the employer with the driver on such employer’s account, but without fuel, shall be deemed
to be Rupees Thirty Thousand per month;
(iv) provied by the employer without the driver and fuel, shall be deemed to be Rupees Fifteen Thousand
per month.
(b) The value of the benefit to an employee from the (fully or partly) private use of any motor vehicle, of which the
engine capacity is below 1500cc, –
(i) provided by the employer with the driver and fuel on such employer’s account, shall be deemed to be
Rupees Thirty Five Thousand per month;
(ii) provided by the employer with fuel on such employer’s account, but without the driver, shall be deemed
to be Rupees Twenty Five Thousand per month.
(iii) provided by the employer with the driver on such employer’s account, but without fuel, shall be deemed
to be Rupees Twenty Thousand per month.
(iv) provided by the employer without the driver and fuel, shall be deemed to be Rupees Ten Thousand per
month.
(c) The value of the benefit to an employee from the (fully or partly) private use of any motor bicycle –
(i) provided by the employer with fuel on such employer’s account, shall be deemed to be Rupees Five
Thousand per month, (irrespective of its engine capacity);
(ii) provided by the employer without fuel, shall be deemed to be Rupees Three Thousand per month,
(irrespective of its engine capacity);
(d) The value of the benefit from private use of –
(i) any motor vehicle provided by the employer where accurate record of such usage is maintained by such
employer, shall be deemed to be Fifteen Rupees per kilometer, (irrespective of the engine capcity of the
vehicle);
(ii) any motor bicycle provided by the employer where accurate record of such usage is maintained by such
employer, shall be deemed to be Three Rupees per kilometer.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'05'20
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2011
3A
25% of the cost for first 3 months from the date of
arrival in Sri Lanka and 100% of the cost, thereafter.
100% of the cost
100% of the cost
100% of the medical bills reimbursed to the Employee.
(The liability arises at the time of reimbursement)
100% of such contribution
100% of such medical bills
100% of the cost
100% of the cost
50% of the cost
100% of the cost
Amount of tax paid (see Tex Table No.6)
(e) Where the employer incurs or reimburses any expense in respect of fuel or maintenance of any motor vehicle
or motor bicycle owned by the employee, the value of benefit to the employee shall be the actual expenses incurred or
reimbursed by the employer.
4. Other Benefits provided by the Employer
Nature of benefit Value of Benefit
1 Provision of Hotel Facilities for expatriates
2 Provision of servants etc.
3 Provision of Electricity and Gas etc.
4 Provision of Medical Benefits
(i) Where a block contribution of premia
under a medical insurance policy for
employees, is made by the employer.
(ii) Where the contribution under any medical
insurance policy in respect of any
employee is separately made by the
employer.
(iii) Where the medical bills are paid or
reimbursed by the employer.
5 Provision of free meals.
6 Payment of life insurance premia
7 Payment of telephone bills and annual charges
(in respect of phones used for private
purposes)
8 Air tickets (other than those provided to
employees of Sri Lankan Air Lines or Mihin
Lanka Air Lines)
9 Payment of tax.
06 - 104
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA