

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
1 A
wxl 1725$22 - 2011 iema;eïn¾ 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'09'30
No. 1725/22  –  FRIDAY ,   SEPTEMBER  30,  2011
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
1A
Local   Government  Notification
MUNICIPAL     COUNCIL   –   KALMUNAI
Administrative Order on the Municipal Council Administrative Procedure and the Delegation of Authorities of
Kalmunai Municipal Council No.  01/2011
I, M.M. Nowfel, the Divisional Secretary of Kalmunai do, By virtue of powers vested in me under Section 14(4) of the
Municipal Councils Ordinance (Cap. 252) to be read in conjunction with the Order made by His Excellency the President of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1718/7 of the 8th day of August
2011, hereby order that all the Executive authorities and responsibilities vested in or imposed or conferred on or assigned to
or exercisable by the Kalmunai Municipal Council, by or under the Municipal Council Ordinance, and any other written law
be exercised, performed and discharged by the Municipal Commissioner, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, the relevant
heads of Departments and other officers of the Kalmunai Municipal Council as set out in the Schedule to this Order appended
below :
M.M. N
OWFAL,
Special Commissioner,
Kalmunai Municipal Council
SCHEDULE
SUB-SCHEDULE - I
GENERAL  DUTIES  AND  RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Structure of Kalmunai Municipality
1.1 For the purpose of efficient and effective administration of the affairs of the Kalmunai Municipal Council, the
Kalmunai Municipality is divided into the following zones :

<!-- page 2 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
2 A
Zone Area of Authority*
Kalmunai North Karavaku North Village Council area
Kalmunai South Karavaku South Village Council area
Kalmunai West Karavaku West Village Council area
Kalmunai Central North The area of Kalmunai Town Council between Rest House Road and
Karavaku North and Karavaku West Village Council area
Kalmunai Central South Kalmunai Town Council area excluding the Kalmunai Central North.
* Here the Village Council and Town Council means the Village Councils and Town Councils that were existing
before the Development Councils Act No. 17 of 1980 came into force.
1.2 The Management Strategy of Kalmunai Municipal Council :
Vision : Transforming Kalmunai Region as a Greenish City,
Mission :
- Social and Economic Development of the People in the area through Peoples Participation.
- Excellent Infrastructure Facilities by increasing other sources of income.
- Establishing renaissance in the life of the People through better recreational facilities.
1.3 Unless otherwise lawfully provided, the Standard By-Laws made under the Local Authorities (Standard By-
Laws) Act, No. 6 of 1950 and published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 541/17 dated the 20th day of January
1989 and adopted by the Kalmunai Municipal Council by Notification published in the Gazette ( Part IVB)
No. 1240 dated the 7th day of June 2002, shall remain in force as the By-Laws of Kalmunai Municipal Council
and shall hereinafter be referred to as “Adopted By-Laws”.
1.4 Financial Management of Kalmunai Municipal Council:
1.4.1 All Financial Activities of Kalmunai Municipal Council shall be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Part III and Part V of the Adopted By Laws and this Administrative Order.
1.4.2 Budget of the Kalmunai Municipal Council:
1.4.2.1 The Budget of Kalmunai Municipal Council shall be prepared separately in respect of each Department of
Kalmunai Municipal Council and in conformity with the provisions of the By-Law No. 3 of the Part III of
the Adopted By-Laws.
1.4.2.2 The Format to be used for the preparation of the Budget of Kalmunai Municipal Council shall, unless
otherwise provided by or under any written law be the forms declared by or under the Government
Financial Regulations.
1.4.3 All Payments should be made by the Municipal Treasurer within Seven days upon being approved by
the relevant approving Officer.
1.4.4 Where any matters relating to the financial administration or accounting of Kalmunai Municipal Council
has not been governed or controlled by the By-Laws referred to in Paragraph 1.4.1, the provisions of the
Government Financial Regulation shall mutatis mutandis apply to such matter.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
3 A
1.5 Personnel Management and Municipal Administration:
1.5.1 Subject to the provisions of the Municipal Councils Ordinance (Cap. 252), Local Government Service Law
No: 16 of 1976, and the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and the rules made thereunder, the
provisions of the Establishment Code of the Government of Sri Lanka, Public Administration Circulars,
and the Treasury Circulars shall mutatis mutandis apply to the Municipal Council Administration and its
officers and servants.
1.5.2 The Provisions of Paragraph 1:3 of the Public Administration Circular No. 22/99 shall apply to the Officers
belonging to Class II and Grade I or parallel thereto, in any of the All Island Public Management Service
(except the Municipal Commissioner) appointed to the Kalmunai Municipal Council and the facilities
required to be provided under that Paragraph, shall be provided to all such Officers of Kalmunai Municipal
Council.
1.5.3 The Provisions of the Public Finance Circular No. 446 issued by the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance
and Planning shall apply to the Officers belonging to Class II and Grade I or parallel thereto, in any of the
All Island Public Management Service (except the Municipal Commissioner) appointed to the Kalmunai
Municipal Council and the Communication facilities required to be provided under Category IV of the
Table set out in  Paragraph 02 of that Circular , shall be provided to all such Officers of Kalmunai
Municipal Council.
2. The Municipal Commissioner:
2.1 The Municipal Commissioner of Kalmunai Municipal Council shall be the Chief Executive Officer next to the
Mayor of Kalmunai and be the Chief Administrative Officer of Kalmunai Municipal Council.
2.2 The Municipal Commissioner shall be the Chief Accounting Officer of the Kalmunai Municipal Council and the
provisions relating to a Chief Accounting Officer under the  Financial Regulation (FR) 128 of the Government
Financial Regulation shall mutandis mutatis apply to the Municipal Commissioner.
2.3 The Municipal Commissioner shall-
(1) Be the authorizing Officer in relation to the financial administration of the Kalmunai Municipal Council
and shall exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of an Authorizing Officer
under the Government Financial Regulations No. 136 ;
(2) Be the Approving Officer in respect of the following Expenditures of the Kalmunai Municipal Council and
shall exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of an Approving Officer under the
Government Financial Regulations No. 137 in respect of those expenditures.
(1) All Capital Expenditures,
(2) Recurrent Expenditures in respect of the Municipal Treasury,
(3) Recurrent Expenditures in respect of all Departments of Kalmunai Municipal Council (except the
Municipal Treasury) exceeding Rs: 10,000.
2.4 The Municipal Commissioner shall Exercise supervision over the Heads of Departments, the Council Affairs
Officer and the Internal Auditor of the Kalmunai Municipal Council.
2.5 The Municipal Commissioner shall exercise, perform and discharge of the executive powers, duties and functions
of the Kalmunai Municipal Council under By-Law 8 of Part V of the Adopted By-Laws.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
4 A
2.6 The Municipal Commissioner shall exercise, perform and discharge of the executive powers, duties and functions
of the Kalmunai Municipal Council not allocated to any other officer by this Administrative Order.
2.7 The following Officers and Servants shall be appointed to assist the Municipal Commissioner :-
(1) Management Assistants ;
(2) Vehicle Driver ;
(3) Karyala Karya Sahayaka ;
(4) Office Labourer.
3. Deputy Municipal Commissioner :
3.1 I do hereby declare in terms of Section 40(1)(a) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance (Cap 252) that there shall
be a Deputy Municipal Commissioner for the Kalmunai Municipal Council for the purpose of assisting the
Municipal Commissioner in the exercise, performance and discharge of his powers, duties and functions.
3.2 The Senior Most and the highest Salary receiving Officer, next to the Municipal Commissioner, belonging to
any All Island Public Management Service shall, in addition to his substantial post in the Municipal Council, be
appointed as the Deputy Municipal Commissioner.
3.3 The Deputy Municipal Commissioner, during the absence or temporary incapacity of the Municipal Commissioner
or during the Office of Municipal Commissioner is vacant, shall exercise, perform and discharge the powers,
duties and functions conferred or imposed upon or vested in or delegated to, the Municipal Commissioner and
the provisions of Section 178 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance shall apply for such acting duty.
3.4 The Deputy Municipal Commissioner shall—
3.4.1 be the Charity Commissioner of the Kalmunai Municipal Council for the purposes and within the meaning
of the Section 174 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance.
3.4.2 be in-charge of the following subjects and functions :-
(1) Corporate Planning of the Municipal Council ;
(2) Preparation and Implementation of Annual Development Plans of Kalmunai Municipal Council ;
(3) Implementation and Management of Special Projects such as NELSIP and other aided Projects and
Projects not funded out of the Municipal Council Fund and the administration and implementation
of the provisions of By-laws of Part V and Part VI of the adopted By-laws and functioning as the
Chief Technical Officer in respect of such works or services or supplies under By-law No. 8 of the
Part V of the adopted By-laws ;
(4) Organizational and Management Development and Training ;
(5) Environmental Protection and Management (including the Tree Planting Activities and the issue of
Environmental Protection Licenses under the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980) ;
(6) Issue of Licenses in respect of Dangerous and Offensive Trades (other than those of Veterinary
Importance)and the administration and operation of the Provisions of the By-laws of Part XXVII of
the adopted By-laws in respect of such Dangerous and Offensive Trades.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
5 A
(7) The administration and operation of the Provisions of the Section 147 of the Municipal Councils
Ordinance in respect of such Dangerous and Offensive Trades (other than those of Veterinary
Importance) ;
(8) Revision and Drafting By-Laws ;
(9) Supervision, Monitoring and Co-ordination of the Disaster Management Activities of Kalmunai
Municipal Council ;
(10) Carrying out the Executive Authorities and Responsibilities of the Kalmunai Municipal Council
under the following written laws :-
(a) Poor Law Ordinance,
(b)  The National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
3.5 The following Officers and Servant shall be appointed to assist the Deputy Municipal Commissioner :-
(1) Municipal Planning Officer ;
(2) Municipal Environment Officer ;
(3) Management Assistants ;
(4) Karyalaya Karya Sahayaka ;
(5) Office Labourer.
3.6 There shall be paid to the Officer holding Office as Deputy Municipal Commissioner for carrying out his duties
and responsibilities under Paragraph 3.4 of this Order, a monthly additional allowance equal to the one-third of
the Monthly Salary of that Officer (excluding allowances), in terms of Section 40(1)(b) the Municipal Councils
Ordinance.
4. Heads of Departments :
4.1 For the efficient and effective discharge of the powers and responsibilities of the Kalmunai Municipal Council,
there shall be the following Departments for the Kalmunai Municipal Council :-
(1) Municipal Secretary’s Department ;
(2) Municipal Treasury ;
(3) Municipal Engineering Services Department ;
(4) Municipal Veterinary Services and Markets Department ;
(5) Municipal Health Services Department.
4 - G 15080

<!-- page 6 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
6 A
4.2 The Heads of the Departments of the Municipal Council shall be as follows :-
Department Head of the Department
Municipal Secretary’s Department Municipal Secretary
Municipal Treasury Municipal Treasurer
Municipal Engineering Services Department Municipal Engineer
Municipal Veterinary Services and Markets Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon
Municipal Health Services Department Chief Medical Officer of Health
4.3 The Deputy Municipal Commissioner shall for the purposes and within the meaning of this Order be a Head of
Department in respect of the functions, duties and functions conferred on him by Paragraph 3.4
4.4 The General Duties and Responsibilities of a Head of Department:
4.4.1 The Head of a Department shall be the Chief Officer in respect of that Department for the purposes and
within the meaning of the Adopted By-laws (including the By-laws of Part IV-Financial Regulations) and
shall be responsible for the due exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, duties and functions
of a Chief Officer in respect of his Department.
4.4.2 The Head of a Department shall be the Chief Technical Officer in respect of the Technical duties assigned
to that Department for the purposes and within the meaning of the Adopted By-laws (including the By-
law 8  of Part V) and shall be responsible for the due exercise, performance and discharge of the powers,
duties and functions of a Chief Technical  Officer in respect of his Department.
4.4.3 The Head of a Department shall exercise administrative control and supervision of over the Officers and
Servants subordinate to him. Such Administrative Supervision of the Subordinate Officers and Servants
shall include inter alia –
(1) The Approval of Advance Programme of Subordinate Staff either with amendment or not and
further action thereon ;
(2) Performance Appraisal ;
(3) Approving Annual Increment of Minor Employees ;
(4) Recommendation of the Annual Increment of Officer (other than Minor Employees) and Action
thereon ;
(5) Granting Leave to Subordinate Officers and Servants or taking action on such applications ;
(6) Recommendation of the Holiday Payment, Overtime, and Travelling Claim of subordinate Officers
and Servants.
4.4.4 The Head of a Department shall, in relation to his Department,  exercise, perform and discharge the
powers, duties and functions vested in or imposed or conferred on or assigned to the Municipal
Commissioner by or under Section 172 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance.

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
7 A
4.4.5 The Head of a Department shall be the Revenue Accounting Officer in respect of the revenues of the
Kalmunai Municipal Council determined to be recovered by that Department and for that purpose,
exercise, performance and discharge the powers, duties and functions of a Revenue Accounting Officer
under the FR 128(2) of the Government Financial Regulations. In addition thereto, the Head of a Department
shall exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of the Municipal Commissioner
under Sections 253 and 254A of the Municipal Councils Ordinance, in respect of such revenues.
4.4.6 The Head of a Department shall be the Accounting Officer for his Department and shall exercise, perform
and discharge the powers, duties and functions of an Accounting Officer under the FR 128 of the
Government Financial Regulations.
4.4.7 The Head of a Department (except the Municipal Treasurer) shall be an Approving Officer in respect of
expenditures of his Department not exceeding Ten thousand Rupees and shall exercise, perform and
discharge the powers, duties and functions of an Approving Officer under the FR 137 of the Government
Financial Regulations in respect of such expenditures.
4.4.8 The Head of a Department shall be the Stores Officer in respect of his Department and shall exercise,
perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of a Stores Officer under the FR 715(3) of the
Government Financial Regulations.
4.4.9 The Head of a Department shall exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, duties and functions
imposed or conferred on or assigned to him by this Administrative Order efficiently and effectively and
in compliance with the provisions of the relevant written laws and may for that purpose take all such
decisions as may be necessary, at his discretion. He shall be responsible for all such decisions to the
Municipal Commissioner. However, the Head of a Department before proceeding to do any administrative
act which involves a question of principle not previously decided or which is likely to cause public
controversy or any act of major importance not duly sanctioned shall consult the Municipal Commissioner
and where necessary the Mayor of Kalmunai.
4.4.10 The Head of a Department shall be responsible for and charged with carrying out the executive authorities
and responsibilities of the Kalmunai Municipal Council under the Municipal Councils Ordinance, and
other written laws and the adopted By-laws (including the power to issue, renew, cancel, suspend or
withdraw any license, permit, approval or certificate) relating to the subjects and functions assigned to
him.
4.4.11 The Head of a Department shall assist in every possible way, every other Department of the Municipal
Council and other State Institutions , with regard to the subjects and functions administered by his
Department.
4.4.12 Before a Head of a Department carries out any act which affects the function of any other Department, he
should, unless otherwise directed the Municipal Commissioner, consult the Head of the Department
likely to be affected.
4.4.13 A communication between the Mayor or the Municipal Commissioner and a Head of a Department shall
be in Minute forms. A Head of Department shall avoid writing letters to the Mayor or the Municipal
Commissioner. The papers containing these minutes should be filed of the Department concerned.
4.4.14 Where any License, Permit or Approval or Certificate or Service has been declared by this Order to be
issued by a Head of a Department, the Head of that Department shall ensure that any such License, Permit
or Approval or Certificate or Service is not issued until the fee or charge therefor is fully recovered.
4.4.15 The Head of a Department shall, after consultation with the Municipal Commissioner, issue duty list to
Officers and Servants subordinate to him.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
8 A
4.4.16 All correspondences with the public or any other State, Private or a Non-Governmental Organization by
a Head of a Department shall be in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XXVIII of the Establishment
Code.
4.4.17 Interpretation of Adopted By-laws: Where in any provisions of the Municipal Councils Ordinance or any
other written law or the adopted by-law relating to a subject or function assigned to a Head of a Department,
any power, duty or function (including the power to issue, renew, cancel, suspend or revoke any license,
permit, approval or certificate) has been imposed or conferred on or assigned to the Municipal
Commissioner or the Chief Executive Officer of Kalmunai Municipal Council, such power, duty or function
shall be exercised, performed or discharged by that Head of that Department and every reference in those
provisions to the Municipal Commissioner or the Chief Executive Officer shall be read and  construed as
a reference to that Head of the Department.
4.4.18 The Heads of every Department and any other Officer nominated by him in consultation with the Municipal
Commissioner shall be a Servant of Municipal Council for the purposes and within the meaning of
Section 136(1)(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.
4.4.19 Each Head of Departments shall be provided with the following basic facilities :-
(1) Communication Facilities (including Telephone, Fax, Internet and Email) ;
(2) Photocopying Facilities ;
(3) Separate Room to accommodate him with privacy ;
(4) Official Transport Facilities for travel on duty within Sri Lanka.
5. Other Independent Officer of Kalmunai Municipal Council
5.1 Council Affairs Officer :
5.1.01 There shall be an officer designated as the Council Affairs Officer to handle the functions relating to the
meetings of the Council and its committees.
5.1.02 The Council  Affairs Officers shall –
(1) carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Secretary under By-Laws of Part II of the adopted
By-Laws ; and
(2) attend to the welfare matters of the Council members such as remuneration etc.
5.1.03 The following Officers and Servants shall be appointed to assist the Council Affairs Officer :-
(1) A Management Assistant ;
(2) Data Entry Operator ;
(3) Stenographer ;
(4) Arachchi ;
(5) Office Labourer.

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
9 A
5.2 Internal Auditor:
5.2.01 There shall be an officer designated as the Internal Auditor to carry out the Management and Internal
Audit of the Kalmunai Municipal Council. The Internal Auditor shall be appointed from amongst the
Programme Assistants / Local Government Assistants appointed to Kalmunai Municipal Council.
5.2.02 The Internal Auditor shall carry out the Internal and Management Audit functions of the Kalmunai
Municipal Council, as provided in By-Law 13(1) of the Part III of the Adopted By-laws and the FR133 of
the Government Financial Regulations. In carrying out his internal and management audit functions, the
Internal Auditor shall act in compliance with the Management Audit Circulars and Guidelines of the
General Treasury. The Internal Auditor may exercise all or any of the powers of the Commissioner under
By-Law 13(2) of the Part III of the Adopted By-laws.
5.2.03 The Head of a Department shall be the Stores Officer in respect of His Department and shall exercise,
perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of a Stores Officer under the FR 715(3) of the
Government Financial Regulations.
6. Municipal Management Committee:
6.1 There shall be Committee to be known and called as the Municipal Management Committee to coordinate the
administration and management of the Kalmunai Municipal Council.
6.2 Structure of the Management Committee :
6.2.01 The Committee shall consist of the following Members :
(1) Mayor of Kalmunai ;
(2) Deputy Mayor of Kalmunai ;
(3) Municipal Commissioner ;
(4) Deputy Municipal Commissioner ;
(5) Heads of Departments of Kalmunai Municipal Council ;
(6) Council Affairs Officer ; and ;
(7) The Internal Auditor.
6.2.02 The Committee shall meet every Wednesday. Where a Wednesday is a Public Holiday, the committee
shall meet on the working day next ensuing.
6.2.03 The Mayor shall chair the meeting. Where the Mayor is absent, then the Deputy Mayor and where both
are absent, the Commissioner shall chair the meeting.
6.3 Functions of the Management Committee:
(1) Coordinate the activities of the Departments of the Kalmunai Municipal Council.
(2) Finding solutions to the problems tabled by the Heads of Departments.
6.4 The Municipal Planning Officer shall function as the Secretary to the Committee.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
10 A
7. Citizens Advisory Committee for Peoples Participation:
7.1 A Community Centre shall be established in respect of each Grama Niladhari Division.
7.2 Citizens Advisory Committee for Peoples Participation
7.2.01 There shall be an Advisory Committee to be known and called as the Citizen Advisory Committee of the
Kalmunai Municipal Council to promote peoples participation in the Municipality Development.
7.2.02 The Committee shall consist of the following Members :
(1) A Representative in respect of each registered Community Centres.
(2) Where a Community Centre has not been established in respect of a Grama Niladhari Division, then
a representative of the Rural Development Society of that area ;
(3) A Representative in respect of each recognized traders association ;
(4) A representative of the Tax Payers Association of Kalmunai Municipal Council.
7.2.03 Advising on the Development Proposals of the Kalmunai Municipal council, Bringing to the notice of the
Kalmunai Municipal Council any shortcomings, efficiency and deficiency of services provided by the
Kalmunai Municipal Council and advising on any matter referred by the Mayor or the Municipal
Commissioner or any other authorized Officer to the advisory committee for advise are the functions of
the Advisory Committee.
7.2.04 All the Members of the Kalmunai Municipal Council shall be invited to the meetings of the Committee.
7.2.05 The Mayor shall chair the meeting. Where the Mayor is absent, then the Deputy Mayor and where both
are absent, the Commissioner shall chair the meeting.
7.2.06 The Advisory Committee shall meet at least once in every three months.
7.3 The Community Development Officer shall function as the Secretary to the Advisory Committee.
8. Posts / Offices for the Local Government Assistant and Programme Assistants:
8.1 The following Posts/ Offices that are to be held by the Local Government Assistants and the Programme
Assistants appointed at present or that may be appointed in the future, to the Kalmunai Municipal Council are
hereby created under Section 40(1)(a) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance in the interest of their personality
development and to enlist their ability and skills for the development of Kalmunai Municipality. They shall be
placed under the control and supervision of the respective heads of Department.
Post / Office Supervising Officer
Internal Auditor Municipal Commissioner
Municipal Planning Officer Deputy Municipal Commissioner
Municipal Environment Officer Deputy Municipal Commissioner
Municipal Tax Officers Municipal Treasurer
Municipal Budget Officer Municipal Treasurer
Superintendant of Sanitation Chief Medical Officer of Health
Solid Waste Management Officer Municipal Engineer
Superintendant of Markets C hief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
11 A
8.2 The above posts should be filled with suitable Officers from amongst the Local Government Assistants and
Programme Assistants appointed to the Kalmunai Municipal Council.
9. Procedure to be followed on the issue of Licenses: Where any license is issued by the Kalmunai Municipal Council,
the following procedure should be strictly followed :
9.1 The necessary application forms for the issue of any license by the Kalmunai Municipal Council shall have
been printed and shall be issued by the Municipal Secretary’s Department after ensuring that the prescribed
form fee has been paid to the Municipal Treasurer / Cashier and a Receipt of payment is obtained.
9.2 Duly filled application forms should be received or entertained by the Municipal Secretary’s Department. A
Receipt of acknowledgement of every such application shall be issued to the applicant by the Municipal
Secretary’s Department.
9.3 All duly filled application form received by the Municipal Treasurers Department shall be registered in a
Register of applications received maintained by the Municipal Secretary’s Department and shall, on or before
the next working day immediately following, be forwarded to the respective head of Department authorized to
issue such License, for further action and disposal.
9.4 The head of Department authorized to issue such License shall dispose all such applications within seven
working days, unless otherwise provided in any other written law.
10. Postal Management:
10.1 All Postal Articles addressed to the Kalmunai Municipal Council shall be received by the Municipal Treasurers
Department.
10.2 All Official Letters received by the Municipal Secretary’s Department shall be opened by the Municipal Secretary
or any officer authorized by the Municipal Secretary, be date stamped and entered in the registered of Inward
Letters.
10.3 All Opened Letters should be examined by the Municipal Secretary or an officer authorized by him, submitted
to the Municipal Commissioner and thereafter referred to the respective Departments for action thereon.
SUB-SCHEDULE - II
JOB   DESCRIPTION   OF   HEADS   OF   DEPARTMENTS
(Prepared in conformity with the Public Administration Circular No. 29/98)
PA R T  –  I
Municipal    Secretary’s   Department
Designation  of the Head of Department:  Municipal Secretary
Grade (for the purposes of Section 175 of
the Municipal Councils Ordinance) : Executive
Department Code: KMC/03
1. Municipal Secretary’s Department:
1.1 There shall be a Department for the Kalmunai Municipal Council to be called as the Municipal Secretary’s
Department.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
12 A
1.2 The Purposes and Functions of the Municipal Secretary’s Department shall be –
(1) Personnel Management and Establishment Works ;
(2) Recruitment, Appointment, and Transfers ;
(3) Attendance, Leave, Overtime, Holiday Pay and Railway Warrants of Municipal Staff ;
(4) Up keeping, maintenance and management of all Vehicles of the Kalmunai Municipal Council (other than
Heavy Machineries) ;
(5) The security and maintenance of Municipal Council Office ;
(6) Internal Administration. Provision of Public Utility Services such as Electricity, Telecommunication, Water
supply.) etc. ;
(7) Procurement of Supply of Office requisites such as Stationeries, to all Departments and institutions of the
Kalmunai Municipal Council. ;
(8) Annual Verification of Stores and the Boards of Survey ;
(9) Postal and Mail Management ;
(10) Elections and the Election to Kalmunai Municipal Council ;
(11) Implementation of Official Language Policy ;
(12) Pensions, Gratuities, Provident Fund and Insurance Benefits ;
(13) Circuit Bungalows of Kalmunai Municipal Council ;
(14) Staff Welfare Services ;
(15) Maintenance and Management of Rest Houses, Circuit Bunglow’s,  Quarters, Community Halls and
Town Halls of Kalmunai Municipal Council ;
(16) Community Development Projects and Community Services ;
(17) Planning and Development of Library Services, and Library Development ;
(18) Pre-schools and Early childhood development ;
(19) Ma intenance of Municipal Record Room ;
(20) Printing and Publication Services for other Departments.
2. Municipal Secretary:
2.1 As per the present approved Cadre, the Municipal Secretary shall be an officer belonging to Class III of the Sri
Lanka Administrative Service.
2.2 Until such an Officer is appointed, an officer of the Kalmunai Municipal Council belonging to any All Island
Public Management Service shall, in addition to his substantial post, act as the Municipal Secretary and the
Provisions of Section 178 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance shall apply in respect of such acting duty.

<!-- page 13 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
13 A
2.3 The Duties and Responsibilities of the Municipal Secretary:
2.3.1 The Municipal Secretary shall be responsible for and charged with the carrying out the objectives and
responsibilities of the Municipal Secretary Department.
2.3.2 Carrying into execution and enforcement of the following legal provisions:
2.3.2.1 The Administration and Enforcement of the following provisions of the adopted By-laws.
(1) Part – XXXI  ( Public Entertainments) ;
(2) Part – XXXII ( Public Performances) ;
(3) Part – ILI (Loudspeakers) ;
(4) Part – ILVII (Libraries) ;
(5) Part – LVII  ( Town Hall and community hall).
2.3.3 Carrying out the executive authorities and responsibilities of the Kalmunai Municipal Council (including
the power to issue, renew, cancel, suspend or withdraw any license, permit, approval or Certificate) under
the following Laws :
(1) Licensing of Clubs Act ;
(2) Public Performances Ordinance ;
(3) Local Authority Quarters (Recovery of Possession) Act ;
(4) Rest Houses Ordinance ;
(5) Local Government Services Law ;
(6) Local Government Services (Pensions) Ordinance ;
(7) Rent Act.
3. Subordinate Officers and Servants:
3.1 The following Officers and Servants shall be appointed to assist the Municipal Secretary :
s/L No Post
1 Community Development Officer
2 Administrative Officer
3 Translators
4 Staff Assistant
5 Chief Management Assistant
6 Management Assistant (Gen. Ad. 01)
5 - G 15080

<!-- page 14 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
14 A
7 Management Assistant (Gen. Ad. 02)
8 Management Assistant (Gen. Ad. 03)
9 Management Assistant (Establishment. 01)
10 Management Assistant (Establishment. 02)
11 Management Assistant (Stores and Supplies)
12 Chief Librarian
13 Librarians
14 Assistant Librarians
15 Library Assistants
16 Pre School Teachers
17 Office Messenger
18 Book Binder
19 Office Labourer
20 K.K.S
21 Drivers
22 Public Relation Assistants
P ART – II
Municipal Treasury
Designation of the Head of Department :  Municipal Treasurer
Grade (for the purposes of Section 175 of
the Municipal Councils Ordinance) : Executive
Department Code: KMC/04
1. Municipal Treasury:
1.1 There shall be a Department for the Kalmunai Municipal Council to be called as the Municipal Treasury.
1.2 The Purposes and Functions of the Municipal Treasury shall be –
(1) Collection of all revenue of Kalmunai Municipal Council and Bringing into account promptly and accurately
in its books all money received by the Kalmunai Municipal council ;
s/L No Post

<!-- page 15 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
15 A
(2) Payment of Personal emoluments and other V ouchers ;
(3) Planning and Preparation of Annual Budget of Kalmunai Municipal Council ;
(4) The Operation and Management of all Accounts of Kalmunai Municipal Council ;
(5) Maintenance of Accounts of Kalmunai Municipal Council and Preparation and Publishing Annual
Accounts
(6) Taking Action on Audit reports and Audit queries.
2. Municipal Treasurer:
2.1 There shall be an officer to be called as Municipal Treasurer who shall be an officer belonging to Sri Lanka
Accountant Service.
2.2 The Municipal Treasurer shall –
2.2.1 Be the Chief Finance Officer of Kalmunai Municipal Council for the purposes and within the meaning of
the Adopted By-laws ;
2.2.2   Be and carryout duties and responsibilities as, the Head of Department in respect of the Municipal
Treasury ;
2.2.3 Carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Municipal Treasury and be responsible therefor to the
Municipal Commissioner ;
2.2.4 Carry out the duties of the Municipal Commissioner under Section 247C(3) and 252 of the Municipal
Councils Ordinance ;
2.2.5 Be the Certifying Officer and Paying Officer in respect of all payments of Kalmunai Municipal Council and
for that purpose exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of the Certifying
Officer under FR 138 and of the Paying Officer under FR 139 respectively ;
2.2.6 Be responsible for the administration and operation of the following provisions of the adopted by laws.
(1) Part XIX (Registration of Lands and Buildings)
(2) Part XXVII (Money Changers)
(3) Past –XXIX (Accountants and Auditors)
(4) Part – ILIV ( Taxes on V ehicles and animals)
(5) Part – LII ( Registration of Mortgages)
2.2.7 Carrying out the executive authorities and responsibilities of the Kalmunai Municipal Council (including
the power to issue, renew, cancel, suspend or withdraw any license, permit, approval or Certificate) under
the following Laws :-
(1) Entertainment Tax Ordinance ;
(2) Vehicles Ordinance ;
(3) Auctioneers and Brokers Ordinance.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
16 A
3. Subordinate Officers and Servants:
3.1 The following Officers and Servants shall be appointed to assist the Municipal Treasurer.
s/L No. Post
1 Municipal Tax Officer (Kalmunai North & West)
2 Municipal Tax Officer ( Kalmunai Central)
3 Municipal Tax Officer (Kalmunai South)
4 Municipal Budget Officer
5 Financial Assistant
6 Chief Management Assistant (Revenue)
7 Management Assistant (Personal Emoluments)
8 Management Assistant (Miscellaneous Payments)
9 Management Assistant (Capital & Projects)
10 Management Assistant (Assessment -1)
11 Management Assistant (Assessment -2)
12 Management Assistant (Assessment -3)
13 Management Assistant (Assessment - 4)
14 Management Assistant (Assessment - 5)
15 Management Assistant (Commercial Taxes)
16 Management Assistant (Miscellaneous Revenue)
17 Cashier/ Shroff
18 Revenue Inspector
19 Revenue Supervisor
20 K.K.S
P ART – III
Municipal  Engineering   Services   Department
Designation of the Head of Department :  Municipal Engineer
Grade (for the purposes of Section 175 of
the Municipal Councils Ordinance) : Executive
Department Code: KMC/05

<!-- page 17 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
17 A
1. Municipal Engineering Services Department:
1.1 There shall be a Department for the Kalmunai Municipal Council to be called as the Municipal Engineering
Services Department.
1.2 The Purposes and Functions of the Municipal Engineering Services Department shall be –
(1) Provision of Civil, Mechanical and Electrical Engineering Services for Municipal Council Works ;
(2) Rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance of Roads and thoroughfares and drainages of Kalmunai
Municipal Council ;
(3) Rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance of Municipal Water Supply services, Waterworks, Street
lighting ;
(4) Maintenance and Management of the Municipal Fire Protection Services ;
(5) Physical Planning of Municipality. Dealing with the Urban Development Works and Activities and Taking
Action on illicit buildings and construction. ;
(6) Rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance of Play Grounds, Parks, Cemeteries and Burial Grounds ;
(7) Maintenance and Management of Heavy Machineries and Equipments ;
(8) Road Safety and Traffic Control ;
(9) Solid Waste Management and Recycling.
2. Municipal Engineer:
2.1 The Municipal Engineer shall –
2.1.1  Be and carryout duties and responsibilities as, the Head of Department in respect of the Municipal
Engineering Services Department;
2.1.2 Carryout the duties and responsibilities of the Municipal Engineering Services Department ;
2.1.3 Be responsible for and charged with the administration and operation of the following legal provisions.
2.1.3.1 The following provisions of the Municipal Councils Ordinance:
(1) Part – V , excluding the provisions of Sections 42, 42A, 44, 83(1), 83(2), 84, and 85;
(2) Provisions relating to Drainages.
2.1.3.2 The following provisions of the adopted by laws.
(1) Part – IV  (Construction of Drains and Buildings)
(2) Part – VI (Execution of Works)
(3) Part – VII (Drainage)
(4) Part – VIII (Privies and Latrines)

<!-- page 18 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
18 A
(5) Part –IX  ( water Supply)
(6) Part – XVI (Obstructions and Encroachments)
(7) Part – XVII (Pedestrian Crosses)
(8) Part – XVIII (Vehicle Parks)
(9) Part – IL ( Advertisements)
(10) Part – ILV ( Fire Services)
(11) Part – L (Construction of Wells)
(12) Part – LI ( Unprotected Wells)
2.1.4 Carrying out the executive authorities and responsibilities of the Kalmunai Municipal Council (including
the power to issue, renew, cancel, suspend or withdraw any license, permit, approval or Certificate) under
the following Laws :-
(1) Wells and Pits Ordinance ;
(2) Cemeteries and Burial Grounds Ordinance ;
(3) Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance ;
(4) Town and country Planning Ordinance.
3. Subordinate Officers and Servants:
3.1 The following Officers and Servants shall be appointed to assist the Municipal Treasurer.
s/L No. Post
1 Superintendant of works
2 Technical Officer (Civil) Kalmunai Central North
3 Technical Officer (Civil) Kalmunai Central South
4 Technical Officer (Civil) Kalmunai North
5 Technical Officer (Civil) Kalmunai West
6 Technical Officer (Civil) Kalmunai South
7 Draughtsman
8 Town Planner
9 Electrical Superintendent
10 Mechanical Superintendant

<!-- page 19 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
19 A
s/L No. Post
11 Superintendant of  Fire Brigade
12 Chief Management Assistant
13 Management Assistant
14 Works Labourer Kangany
15 Works Labourers
16 Linesman
17 Linesman Mate
18 Electricity Labourers
19 Fireworks supervisor
20 Fire Brigade Workers
21 Machine Operator (Solid Waste Management)
22 Technician Grade Labourers
23 Machine Operators
24 K.K.S.
P ART – IV
Municipal  Health   Services   Department
Designation of the Head of Department :  Chief Medical Officer of Health
Grade (for the purposes of Section 175 of
the Municipal Councils Ordinance) : Executive
Department Code: KMC/06
1. Municipal Health Services Department:
1.1 There shall be a Department for the Kalmunai Municipal Council to be called as the Municipal Health Services
Department.
1.2 The Purposes and Functions of the Municipal Health Services Department shall be –
(1) Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contageous Diseases such as Malaria, Dengue, Filariasis ;
(2) Health Education and Publicity ;
(3) Provision of Allopathic Medical Services ;
(4) Provision of Ayurvedic Medical Services ;

<!-- page 20 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
20 A
(5) Maternity and child care ;
(6) General Sanitation and Solid Waste Collection ;
(7) Food Safety except in so far as it relates to food of animal origin.
2. Chief  Medical Officer of Health:
2.1 There shall be an officer to be called as Chief Medical Officer of Health who shall be an officer belonging to Sri
Lanka Medical Officers Service.
2.2 The Chief Medical Officer of Health shall –
2.2.1 carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Municipal Health Services Department ;
2.2.2 be responsible for the administration and operation of the following legal provisions.
2.2.2.1 The following provisions of the Municipal Councils Ordinance:
(1) the provisions of Sections 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 129, 134, 136,137, 138, 139, 140, and 141;
(2) Provisions of Section 160 except in so far as it relates to food of animal origin.
2.2.2.2 The following By- Laws:
2.2.2.2.1 The following provisions of the adopted by laws :-
(1) Part – XI (Scavenging) ;
(2) Part – XII ( Conservancy) ;
(3) Part – XIII (Over Crowding in Tenements) ;
(4) Part –XV (Public Bathing Places) ;
(5) Part – XXV (Seizure of Article unfit for Food) except in so far as it relates to Food of
Animal Origin ;
(6) Part – XXVI (Baber Saloons) ;
(7) Part – XXXIV (Lodges) ;
(8) Part – XXXV ( Hotels) ;
(9) Part – XXXVI ( Eating Houses) ;
(10) Part – XXXIX ( Bakeries) ;
(11) Part – ILII (Swimming Pools) ;
(12) Part – ILIII (Funeral parlors) ;
(13) Part – ILVIII (Public Health).

<!-- page 21 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
21 A
2.2.2.2.2 By laws made under Municipal Dairies and Laundries Ordinance relating to Laundries.
2.2.3 Carrying out the executive authorities and responsibilities of the Kalmunai Municipal Council
(including the power to issue, renew, cancel, suspend or withdraw any license, permit, approval or
Certificate) under the following Laws :-
(1) Diseases (Prevention and Quarantine) Ordinance ;
(2) Municipal Dairies and Laundries Ordinance in so far as it relates to Laundries ;
(3) Food Act, No. 26 of 1980 except in so far as it relates to Food of Animal Origin.
2.2.4 Carrying out the executive authorities and responsibilities of a Medical Officer of Health under the
Adopted By-laws.
3. Subordinate Officers and Servants:
3.1 The following Officers and Servants shall be appointed to assist the Municipal Treasurer :-
S/l No. Post
1 Ayurvedic Medical Officer
2 Superintendent of Sanitation
3 Chief Public Health Inspector
4 Public Health Inspector – Kalmunai North
5 Public Health Inspector – Kalmunai West
6 Public Health Inspector – Kalmunai Central – I
7 Public Health Inspector – Kalmunai Central - II
8 Public Health Inspector – Kalmunai South
9 Chief Management Assistant
10 Management Assistants
11 Midwife
12 Health Workers Kangany
13 Health Workers
14 Refuse Collection V ehicle Drivers
15 Ayurvedic Dispenser
16 Ayurvedic Compounder
17 Ayurvedic Dispensary Labourer
18 K. K. S.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
22 A
P ART – IV
Municipal  V eterinary  Services   and Markets Department
Designation of the Head of Department :  Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon
Grade (for the purposes of Section 175 of Executive
the Municipal Councils Ordinance) :
Department Code : KMC/07
1. Municipal Veterinary  Services and Markets Department:
1.1 There shall be a Department for the Kalmunai Municipal Council to be called as the Municipal Veterinary
Services and Markets Department ;
1.2 The Purposes and Functions of the Municipal Veterinary  Services and Markets Department shall be –
(1) The Provision, administration and Management of Municipal Public Health Veterinary Services as per the
Circular letter No. PL/7/1/8/3 of 2007.08.06 issued by the  Secretary to the Ministry of Provincial Councils
and Local Government ;
(2) Animal Health and Welfare ;
(3) Prevention, control and Eradication of Zoonotic Diseases in Animal ;
(4) Security of Food of Animal Origin ;
(5) Food Safety and Hygiene of Food of animal origin ;
(6) Licensing of dangerous and offensive trades of veterinary importance ;
(7) Proper Maintenance and Management (including leasing and renting out) of Public Markets, Fairs and
other Commercial Buildings of Kalmunai Municipal Council ;
(8) Protection of Public Health and environment from or against threat, dangers and nuisances by, from or
through Animals, Animal Products and Food of animal origin, Animal Waste, and Livestock Farming and
Industries.
2. Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon:
2.1 There shall be an officer to be called as Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon who shall be an officer belonging
to Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service II/I.
2.2 The Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon shall –
2.2.1 carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Municipal Veterinary  Services and Markets Department ;
2.2.2 be responsible for the administration and operation of the following legal provisions.
2.2.2.1 The following provisions of the Municipal Councils Ordinance :-
(1) The provisions of Sections 83, 84, 85, 145 and 146 ;
(2) Provisions of Section 147 in so far as it relates to dangerous and offensive trades of V eterinary
Importance ;

<!-- page 23 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
23 A
(3)  the provisions of Sections 155, 156, 17, 158, and 159 relating to Markets ;
(4) Provisions of Section 160 in so far as it relates to food of animal origin.
2.2.2.2 The following By- Laws:
2.2.2.2.1 The following provisions of the adopted by laws.
(1) Part – X ( Prevention of Nuisances) in so far as it relates
* Nuisances at Public Markets
* Nuisances by animals, animal products, animal wastes and Livestock Industrial
Wastes
(2) Part – XIV ( Keeping Swine)
(3) Part – XX ( Markets and Farms)
(4) Part – XXI (Sale of Fish)
(5) Part - XXII (Sale of Meat)
(6) Part – XXIII (Markets, Animal Markets etc.)
(7) Part – XXIV (Slaughter Houses)
(8) Part – XXV (Seizure of Article unfit for Food) in so far as it relates to Food of Animal
Origin
(9) Part – XXVII (Dangerous and Offensive Trades) in so far as it relates to Dangerous and
Offensive Trades of Veterinary Importance
(10) Part – XXX (Industries and Trades) in so far as it relates to Livestock Industry.
(11) Part – XXXVII (Dairies and Sale of Milk)
(12)  Part – XXXVIII (Cattle Marts)
(13) Part – LVI (Hawkers of Animals and Food of Animal Origin)
2.2.2.2.2 By laws made under Section 27 of Butchers Ordinance
2.2.2.2.3 By laws made under Section 9 of the Rabies Ordinance
2.2.2.2.4 By laws made under Section 4 of Registration of Dogs Ordinance
2.2.2.2.5 By laws made under Section 6 of Nuisances Ordinance in so far as it relates to
(1) Nuisances at Public Markets ;
(2) Nuisances by animals, animal products, animal wastes and Livestock Industrial Wastes.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
24 A
2.2.2.2.6 By laws made under Section 13 of Municipal Dairies and Laundries Ordinance relating to
Dairies.
2.2.3 Carrying out the executive authorities and responsibilities of the Kalmunai Municipal Council
(including the power to issue, renew, cancel, suspend or withdraw any license, permit, approval or
Certificate) under the following Laws.
(1) Animals Act No: 29 of 1958 and the regulations made thereunder
(2) Animal Diseases Act No: 59 of 1992
(3) Butchers Ordinance
(4) Registration of Dogs Ordinance
(5) Rabies Ordinance
(6) Municipal Dairies and Laundries Ordinance in so far as it relates to Dairies
(7) Milk Board Act
(8) Food Act No: 26 of 1980 in relation to Food of Animal origin
(9) Cruelty to Animals Ordinance
(10) Dangerous Animals Ordinance
(11) Gaming Ordinance in so far as it relates to Cock fighting
(12) Nuisances Ordinance in so far as it relates to
(a) Nuisances at Public Markets
(b) Nuisances by animals, animal products, animal wastes and Livestock Industrial Wastes
(13) Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance
(14) Weight and Measures Ordinance.
2.3 The Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon shall –
(1) Be a Veterinary Surgeon employed by a Local Authority for the purposes and within the meaning of the
Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958
(2) Be a veterinary surgeon for the purposes and within the meaning of the Animal diseases Act, No. 59 of
1992, if approved by the Director General of Animal Production and Health;
(3) Be an Authorized Officer in relation to examination and seizure of Meat upon being approved under
Section 13(1) of the Food Act, No. 26 of 1980
(4) Carry out duties as an authorized Officer under Section 160 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance;

<!-- page 25 -->

IV ^wd& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.09.2011
25 A
(5) Carrying out the executive authorities and responsibilities of a Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon,
Municipal Veterinary Surgeon or a Veterinary Surgeon or a Superintendent of Slaughter House under the
Adopted By-Laws;
(6) Carry out the duties and responsibilities assigned to him by the Municipal Commissioner, immediately
before this Order coming into force.
2.4 The Provisions of the Departmental Circular under reference No. ep/5/jp.R/2009 dated 2009.12.21 issued by the
Director General of Animal Production and Health shall apply to the Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon and
other Veterinary Surgeons of Kalmunai Municipal Council.
2.5 The General Duty hours of the Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon and other Municipal Veterinary Surgeon
shall be the hours between 6.00 AM and 2.00 PM on every day other than Saturday, Sunday and the Public
Holidays.
3. Subordinate Officers and Servants:
3.1 The following Officers and Servants shall be appointed to assist the Municipal Treasurer.
s/L No. Post
1 Municipal Veterinary Surgeon
2 Superintendant of Markets
3 Chief Municipal Veterinary Inspector
4 Municipal Veterinary Inspector (Kalmunai North)
5 Municipal Veterinary Inspector (Kalmunai South)
6 Municipal Veterinary Inspector (Kalmunai West)
7 Municipal Veterinary Inspector (Kalmunai Central)
8 Food Inspector
9 Chief Management Assistant
10 Management Assistant
11 Superintendant of Slaughter House
12 Market Supervisor
13 Market Labourers
14 Slaughter House Workers
15 K.K.S
16 Office Labourer
09-1374
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.