

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 360
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 354
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"955 – 2016 fmnrjdß ui 19 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'02'19
No. 1,955 – FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY  19, 2016
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th March, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th  February, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
351

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
352
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are rele ased for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
353
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should perso nally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
354
Posts – Vacant
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION 
Ministry of Education  
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS, SRI LANKA
RecRuitment to the Post of LegaL officeR (gRade iii of the executive seRvice categoRy) on oPen Basis - 2015
APPLICATIONS are being called from Sri Lanka citizens with the following qualifications to the post of Legal Officer of the Department 
of Examinations, Sri Lanka. 
01. Method of Recruitment. – The candidate who obtain the highest marks, based on the results obtained at a structured 
interview conducted by an interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission, out of applicants who have completed the due 
qualifications mentioned in the notice will be recruited to the vacancy. The structured interview will be held as per the making scheme 
(cited under No. 06) approved by the Public Service Commission. 
02. Required Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications.– Shall have obtained a degree in Law from a university recognized by the 
University Grants Commission or have taken an oath as an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court. 
 (ii) Experience.– Shall have obtained an active professional experience not less than three (03) years as an Attorney-at-
Law after taking the oath of the Supreme Court. 
 (iii) Physical Fitness.– Each candidate shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform 
duties of the post. 
 (iv) Other : 
* Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
* Shall be of excellent character,
* Shall have completed all the qualifications in every way required to be appointed to this post on the date of 
17.03.2016.
03. Terms of Service and Service Conditions : 
 (i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Relevant contributions shall be made to Widows'Widowers' and Orphans' 
Pension Scheme. 
 (ii) This appointment shall be subjected to a probationary period of 03 years. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be 
passed within 03 years from the date of recruitment to the post as stipulated in the Scheme of Recruitment. 
 (iii) You shall confirm the acquisition of the prescribed proficiency in the official language prior to expiry of five years 
from the date of appointment in terms of the provisions of the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 dated 
21.01.2014 and the circulars incidental thereto. 
 (iv) This appointment is subjected to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission and to amendments and 
provisions made or to be made to the Scheme of Recruitment with respect to the Legal Officer of the Department of 
Eaminations, Sri Lanka. 
04. Age limit.– Shall not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of applications. 
05. Salary Scale.– A monthly salary scale of Rs. 22,935 -10x645 - 8x790 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 is entitled to this post. (SL-
1-2006 salary segment of the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006). 
06. The structured interview will be based on the following marking scheme : 
  Consecutive Subject Maximum 
  No.  Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications  20
 A degree in law from a recognized university
 –  For a First Class 20
 – For a Second Class Upper Division 15
 – For a Second Class Lower Division 10
 For a First Class in the final year of the Law College 15
 For a Second Class in the final year of the Law College 10

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
355
 Note.–  10 marks shall be awarded only if the final examination had been passed  
  with honours. 
  (Marks will be awarded only for maximum qualifications - for either of the Degree 
  or Law College qualifications)
02 Additional Professional Qualifications   15
 For a Post Graduate Diploma Course not less than a year in the respective field from a 
 recognized institution or a Postgraduate Diploma in Law (05 marks for each diploma)
 For a Diploma Course not less than 06 months in the respective field from a recognized 
 institution (03 marks for each diploma)
 For a Certificate Course not less than 03 months in the respective field from a recognized 
 institution (02 marks for each course)
03 Additional Experience  30
 Experience in the Public Service or Private Sector as an Attorney-at-Law
 – More than 06 months and less than a year - 02 marks
  Maximum of 30 marks 05 marks per each year 
 (Excluding the 03 years perod of service served as an Attorney-at-Law in order to acquire
 the basic qualification)
 (The additional experience shall be confirmed through a certificate issued by an 
 Attorney-at-law with a period of service not less than 20 years or a president's counsel or 
 a judge)
04 English Language Proficiency  15
 English medium Post Graduate Degree/Degree/Post Graduate Course in Law/LLB Degree 15
 (Answers shall be in English medium for all the respective question papers)
 For a Diploma Course in English Language from a university recognized by the University 10
 Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the government
 (01 year or 1500 hours)
 A certificate course in English Language from a university recognized by the University  
 Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the government 
 – 06 months/720 hours 07
 – 03 months/360 hours 05
05 Knowledge on Information Technology  15
 For following Information Technology as a main subject for a Degree from a university 15
 recognized by the Unviersity Grants Commission
 For a Diploma Course not less than 01 year from an institution recognized by the  10
 government or for 1500 hours
 For a Certificate Course in Information Technology from an institution recognized by the 
 government
 – 06 months/720 hours 07
 – 03 months/360 hours 05
06 Performance at the interview  05
   Total  100
  Consecutive Subject Maximum 
  No.  Marks

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
356
07. Identity of the Candidate.– The candidates who have forwarded complete applications in all respects will be only called 
for the structured interview. Originals and duly certified copies of all certificates shall be furnished at the interview. Following identity 
papers will be accepted to prove the identity at the interview :
 (i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons,  
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
8. Method of forwarding applications : 
 (i) Applications shall be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or before 17.03.2016 applications 
received after such date will be rejected : 
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of Education, 
  Isurupaya, Battaramulla. 
 (ii) A specimen of the application form that shall be forwarded is given at the end of this notice. Applicants shall prepare 
their applications using an A4 size paper in such a way that numbers 01 to 05 appear on the first page and numbers 
06 to 08 appear on the second page and it shall be perfected with their own handwriting. 
 (iii) "Application for the Post of Legal Officer" shall be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope, in which 
the application form is enclosed. 
 (iv) Applicant's signature on the application shall be attested by a principal of a government school/justice of peace/
Commissioner of Oaths/an Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/a Commissioned Officer of three armed forces/an officer 
in the police service holding a Gazetted post or a permanent officer in the public service in receipt of a monthly 
consolidated salary of Rs. 22,935 or above. 
 (v) Officers who are already employed in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service shall forward their applications 
through their respective department heads. 
 (vi) Applications that do not comply with the specimen application form herewith, will be rejected. Complaints on loss 
or delays will not be entertained. 
9. Providing false information.– Your candidature will be revoked if any information furnished in your application was found 
to be false or incorrect before the recruitment. In case any false or incorrect information was detected subsequent to the recruitment he/
she will be dismissed subject to the prescribed procedures. 
On the direction of the Public Service Commission, 
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of Education. 
Isurupaya, 
Battaramulla. 
wdo¾Y whÿïm;%h 
Y%S ,xld úNd. fomd¾;fïka;=j 
úOdhl fiajd .Kh - kS;s ks,Odß III fY%a‚fha ;k;=rg n|jd .ekSfï jHqy.; iïuqL mÍlaIKh - 2015
EXECUTIVE SERVICE CATEGORY - STRUCTURED INTERVIEW FOR RECRUITMENT TO 
THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER GRADE III - 2015
(Indicate clearly the correct symbol/number in the cage provided)
(For office use)   
Language medium to appear for the structured interview : 
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English  - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
357
1.0  1.1 Full name (In English capital letters) :––––––––––––.
   ( Ex. : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
  1.2 Last name at first with initials at the end (In English capital letters) :––––––––––––.
   ( Ex. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
  1.3 Full name :––––––––––––.
   (In Sinhala/Tamil)
  1.4 National Identity Card No. : 
2.0  2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––––.
   (In English capital letters)
  2.2 Permanent address :––––––––––––.
   (In Sinhala/Tamil)
  2.3 Address to which the admission card shall be sent :––––––––––––.
   (In English capital letters)
3.0  3.1 Sex :  Female - 1/Male - 0
   (Write the relevant number in the cage)
  3.2 Date of birth :  Year : Month : Date :
  3.3 Age as on 17.03.2016 :  Years Months : Days : 
  3.4 Telephone Number : 
4.0 Educational qualifications : 
 Degree or details of the educational certificate required to make an oath of the Supreme Court as an Attorney-at-Law and the 
conferred date of such certificate : 
  (i) University or institution :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Name of the degree or the educational certificate :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Effective date of the degree or the educational certificate :––––––––––––.
  (iv) Class :––––––––––––.
5.0 Experience gained in the legal field :––––––––––––.
6.0 Other educational and professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
7.0 Have you ever been convicted by a court of Law ? 
 (Indicate P mark in the relevant cage) (In case 'Yes' give particulars)
  Yes   No
8.0 Certification of the applicant : 
 ( a) I, solemnly declare that the particulars provided by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. 
I agree to bear the loss that could be incurred due to unfilled and/or inaccurately filled sections in the application. Further           
I declare that all sections herein are perfected accurately. 
 ( b) I am aware that I will be liable to be disqualified prior to the appointment and to be dismissed subsequent to receiving the 
appointment in case any information provided by me are proved to be false. 
 ( c) Moreover I declare that I will abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Eaminations on 
conducting the structured interview. 
 ( d) I will not alter any information provided herein later. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
358
9.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature : 
I, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms .................................... who submits this application is known to me personally and that 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on .......................... and he/she has paid the relevant examination fee and affixed the 
receipt of payment on this application. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attestor. 
Date :––––––––––––.
Name of the Attestor :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Confirm with the official frank)
10.0 The certification of the Department Head (Only for employees serving at Public/Provincial Public Sector/State Corporations) :
The Application of Mr./Mrs./Ms. ......................................... serving as a/an ..................................... at this Ministry/
Department/Institution is recommended and forwarded herewith and necessary actions can be taken to release him/her from the service 
at this Institution in case he/she is selected for the post concerned. 
   ––––––––––––––––,
   Signature of the Department Head. 
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Confirm with the official frank)
02–515
–––––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE
Recruitment to the post of Research Officer (Grade II) 
in the Institution affiliated to the Ministry of Defence 
on Limited Competitive Basis - 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitable Sri Lankan citizens to 
fill 05 (five) vacancies for the post of Research Officers (Grade II) 
in the institutions affiliated to the Ministry of Defence. 
01. Mode of Recruitment.- Candidates who fulfill the following 
qualifications laid down in the notification will be recruited based 
on the results of a structured interview conducted by an interview 
board appointed by the Secretary Ministry of Defence, depending 
on number of vacancies. Structured interviews will be held in 
accordance with the marking scheme (Indicated under No. 06) 
approved by the Public Service Commission. 
02. Required Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications.-  Having 
obtained a special degree from a University 
recognized by the Universtiy Grants Commission ; or 
  General degree with a post graduate or a post 
graduate diploma from a university recognized by the 
University Grants Commission. 
 (ii) Experience.- Being an officer who is knowledgeable 
in research and possesses active and satisfactory 
service period of not less than five years in associate 
officers' grade or development officers' service)
  (Should circumstantiate service record by a stamped 
certificate mentioning period and date).
 (iii) Physical requirement .- Every applicant should be 
physically and mentally fit to perform duties of the 
post and to serve in any part of the Island. 
 (iv) Other Qualifications :
  Must be a Sri Lankan citizen, 
  Must have an excellent character, 
  Must have fulfilled the qualifications for the 
recruitment to the post as at the closing date of 
application. 
03. Terms and Conditions of Employment : 
 (i) The post is permanent and pensionable and the 
officer should contribute to the Widows' and 
Orphans/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme. 
 (ii) The appointment is subject to a probationary period 
of one year and the appointees should pass the First 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
359
Efficiency Examination within 03 years from the 
date of appointment as specified in the scheme of 
recruitment. 
 (iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 
01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 the successful candidates 
should obtain the relevant proficiency in the official 
language other than the official language they join 
the public service w ithin a period of 5 years from 
joining the post and those who join the public 
service in a language medium which is not an 
official language, should obtain the required official 
language proficiency within the probationary period. 
 (iv) This appointment should be subjected to the 
procedural rules of the Public Service Commission. 
The Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka. Financial Regulations of 
the Government and to the other Departmental 
Regulations. 
04. Salary Code .- The monthly salary scale attached to the 
post is Rs. 17,680 - 10x320 - 11x365 - 15x450 - Rs. 31,645 
(Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated 25.04.2006). 
05. The structured interview will be based on the following 
marking scheme : 
 Subject Maximum Passed
  Marks Marks 
Service Experience   35
Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Professional Experience 20 Not
Computer Literacy 10 required
Language Proficiency 10
Skills demonstrated at the interview 05
Total 100
06. Identity of Candidates .- Candidates who have forwarded 
completed application in every aspect will only be called for the 
structural interview. 
The original and certified copies of all certificates should be 
submitted at the interview. 
Establish the identity of candidates : 
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner 
General of Registration of Persons. 
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
07. Presentment of Applications : 
 (i) Duly filled applications should be sent under registered 
post to reach Secretary, Ministry of Defence, No. 15/5, 
Baladakshka Mawatha, Colombo 03 on or before 
18.03.2016. 
 (ii) Applicants should prepare their applications on A4 
sheets to contain 1.0 -4.3 on the first page and the rest 
on the next page in their own handwriting. 
 (iii) The top left hand side of the envelope should mention 
the post applied for - Research Officer Grade II - 
Limited recruitment. 
 (iv) The officers in Public Service and Provincial Public 
Service should submit applications through their 
Heads of Departments. 
 (v) An application which has not been submitted according 
to the above stated specimen form will be rejected and 
complaints regarding lost or delayed application will 
not be entertained. 
08. Furnishing false particulars .- If any of the particulars 
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before the 
recruitment your candidature will be cancelled. In case such false 
hood or error is detected after recruitment, action will be taken 
to discontinue your service and you will be subjected to relevant 
disciplinary action. 
09. The Secretary of Ministry of Defence reserves the right 
either to fill or not to fill the vacancies in the post. 
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Defence. 
No. 15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha, 
Colombo 03, 
05th February, 2016. 
For office use only
MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 
RecRuitment to the Post of ReseaRch officeR (gRade ii) in the 
institution affiLiated to the ministRy of defence on Limited 
comPetitive Basis - 2016
1.0 Name :
  1.1 Name with Initials :
   (With English block capital) Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––.
  1.2 Name in full :––––––––––.   
(With English block capital)
  1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
   (Sinhal a/Tamil)
2.0  2.1 Private Address :––––––––––.
  2.2 Office Address :––––––––––.
  2.3 Telephone Number :––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
360
3.0  3.1 Ethnic :
   (Sinhala - 1,  Tamil - 2,  Muslim - 3, Others - 4)
  3.2 Gender : Male  Female
  3.3 Civil Status : Married Unmarried 
  3.4 National Identity Card No. : 
  3.5 Date of Birth :  
   Year :––––––––,  Month :––––––––,  Date :–––––––.
4.0  4.1 Educational Qualifications :
   General/Special Post Graduate/ 
 Degree  Diploma 
Degree
University/Institution 
Valid Date of Degree 
  4.2 Other Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.
  4.3 Professional Experience : 
 Position held Place of work  Service in field 
    of research 
   Year Month Dates
  4.4 Language proficiency (Highest examination passed) :
  (i) Sinhala :––––––––––.
  (ii) Tamil :––––––––––.
  (iii) English :––––––––––.
  4.5 Service Experience : 
 (i) Unblemished service to the date on 31.12.2015 :
  Years :–––––––.  Months :––––––. Days :––––––.
 (ii) Details of no pay leave in last five year to the 
dated on 31.12.2015 :...........................................
  ..............................................................................
..............................................................................
5.0 Certificate of the Applicant : 
I, hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this 
application by me are true and correct. I am also aware that if 
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect 
before appointment. I am liable to be disqualified and if found 
after appointment, I am liable to be dismissed from service 
without any compensation. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of Applicant. 
Date :––––––––––.
6.0 Certificate of the Head of Department : 
I, hereby certify t hat the candidate Mr./Mrs./Miss .................
.................. who submits this application is serving in the office 
from ............................ and that his/her work and conduct is 
satisfactory. That he/she has been confirmed in the service and I 
personally checked all the information furnished above with the 
records available in this office and found correct and he/she has 
not been subjected to a disciplinary inquiry he/she signed in my 
presence. 
He/She can/can't be released. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of the Department. 
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
02-584/2
MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment as 
Grade II Research Officer in an Institution Affiliated 
to the Ministry of Defence - 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitable Sri Lankan citizens 
to fill the 15 (Fifteen) vacancies existing in the post of Research 
Officers (Grade II) in the Institution affiliated to the Ministry of 
Defence. 
01. Mode of Recruitment.-  The candidates with the required 
qualifications mentioned in the advertisement will be called 
for a written examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute 
of development ad ministration and the results of the same will 
be taken into consideration when filling in the vacancies. The 
selected candidates will be interviewed by a panel appointed by 
the Secretary, Ministry of Defence. Candidates with the highest 
marks will be selected to fill the vacancies. Structured interviews 
will be held as per the marking scheme approved by the Public 
Service Commission. (mentioned under No. 06)
02. Salary Code .- The monthly salary scale attached to the 
post is Rs. 17,680 - 10x320 - 11x365 - 15x450 - Rs. 31,645 
(Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated 25.04.2006 
-MN/6-2006A). 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
361
03. The post is permanent and pensionable. 
04. Required Qualifications :
Must be a Sri Lankan citizen. 
The candidates should be not less than 21 and not more         
than 35 on the closing date for application. 
Must have an excellent character. 
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications .- Applicants 
should possess a degree and a post graduate qualification 
obtained from a university approved by the University 
Grants Commission or from an Institution approved by 
the University Grants Commission. 
 (ii) Physical requirements .- Every applicant should be 
physically and mentally fit to perform duties of the post 
and to serve in any part of the Island. 
 (iii) Must have fulfilled the qualifications for the recruitment 
to the post as at the closing date of application. 
05. Terms and Conditions of Employment : 
 (i) The appointment is subject to a probationary period of 03 
years. After joining the post of Research Officer Grade 
II the Officer should complete the First Efficiency Bar 
Examination as specified in the Rules and Regulation in 
the appointment later. 
 (ii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 
dated 21.01.2014 the successful candidates should obtain 
the relevant proficiency in the official language other than 
the official language they join the public service within 
a period of 5 years from joining the post and those who 
join the Public Service in a language medium which is not 
an official language, should obtain the required official 
language proficiency within the probationary period.
 (iii) This appointment should be subjected to the procedural 
rules of the Public Service Commission. The Establishment 
Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 
Financial Regulations of the Government and to the other 
Department Regulations. 
06. Examination process .- The question paper consists of 
two parts and will be held in all three languages. The requested 
medium will not be changed thereafter. 
Examination subjects and marks will be shown as follows :
 Subject Time Marks Pass marks
Intelligence Test 01 hour 100 40%
Subject knowledge 02 hours 100 40%
Intelligence test .- IQ examination consists of diagrams and 
figures. The solutions and answers given by the candidates will 
determine the ability of the individual. The paper will also include 
multiple choice questions. Where short answers are required 
paper will be provided. 
Subject knowledge .- The following arias/subjects will be 
tested in detail : The Economy, Political, Security, International 
relations, Management, Science and Technology, Education, 
Health, Sports, the Environment and Social and Cultural issues. 
Examination fees Rs. 1,000 which will not be refundable can 
be credited to Bank of Ceylon (Torrington Branch) Acc. No. 
2323278 to Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. 
Payment can be made at any branch of the Bank of Ceylon. Duly 
paid deposit slip should be pasted on the relevant page. Please 
keep a photocopy of the deposit slip for your future reference No. 
Postal Orders or stamps will be accepted in lieu of the payment 
for any reason. 
The struc tural interview will be based on the following 
marking Scheme : 
 Subject Maximum Marks
  Marks obtained 
Additional Educational Qualification 15
Professional qualifications relevant to the post 15
Professional Experience 35 50%
Computer Literacy 10
Language Proficiency 10
Skills demonstrated at the interview 05
Total 1 00
07. Identity of Candidates .- Only the candidates who have 
forwarded the applications completed application in every aspect 
will only be called for the structural interview. 
The original and certified copies of all certificates should be 
submitted at the interview. 
Following identification papers will be accepted at the 
interview to establish the identity of candidates : 
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner 
General of Registration of Persons. 
 (ii) Valid passport. 
08. Forwarding of Applications : 
 (i) Duly filled applications should be sent under registered 
post to reach Secretary, Ministry of Defence, No. 
15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha, Colombo 03 on or before 
18.03.2016. All the applications received after the closing 
date will be rejected. 
 (ii) A specimen application is attached at the end of this 
notice. The application should be typed on an A4 sheet 
and should include the details asked for in 2.6 of the first 
page and details required in 3.0-5.0 on the second page. 
The other details asked for in the 3rd page should be in 
the applicant's own hand writing. 
 (iii) The top left hand side of the envelope should mention 
the post applied for - Research Officer Grade II - open 
recruitment. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
362
 (iv) The officers in Public Service and Provincial Public 
Service should submit applications through their Heads 
of Departments. 
 (v) Applications which have not been submitted according 
to the above stated specimen form will be rejected and 
complaints regarding lost or delayed application will not 
be entertained. 
09.  Furnishing false particulars .- If any of particulars 
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before the 
recruitment your candidature will be cancelled. In case such          
false hood or error is detected after recruitment, action will be 
taken to discontinue your service, and you will be subjected to 
relevant disciplinary action. 
10. The Secretary of Ministry of Defence reserves the right 
either to fill or not to fill the vacancies in the post. 
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Defence. 
No. 15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha, 
Colombo 03, 
05th February, 2016. 
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR 
RECRUITMENT AS GRADE II RESEARCH OFFICER IN 
AN INSTITUTION AFFILIATED TO THE MINISTRY OF 
DEFENCE - 2016
Index Number : 
For office use only 
Medium of the Examination : 
Sinhala - 2 Tamil - 3  English - 4
(Indicate in the relevant cage)
Medium of examination cannot be changed.
1.0 Name :
  1.1 Name in full (In block letters) : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––.
   ( Ex. : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  BUDDHIKA  
SAMPATH  KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
  1.2 Name with last name at the beginning and initials of 
other names at the end (In block letters) :––––––––––. 
(Ex. GUNAWARDENA, H. M. B. S. K.)
  1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
   (In Sinhala/Tamil)
  1.4 Ethnicity : 
   Sinhala - 1,  Tamil - 2,  Muslim - 3,  Others - 4
  1.5 National Identity Card No. : 
  1.6 Sex : (Indicate in the relevant cage) :
   Female - 1 Male - 0
2.0  2.1 Permanent Address (in block letters) :––––––––––.
  2.2 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
  2.3 Office address (In block letters) :––––––––––.
  2.4 Office address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––. 
  2.5 Address to which the admissions should be sent (In 
block letters) :––––––––––.
  2.6 Telephone No. :––––––––––.
3.0  3.1 Marital Status : 
   Unmarried - 1 Married - 2
   (Indicate in the relevant cage)
  3.2 Date of Birth : 
   Year : Month : Date : 
  3.3 Age as at 04.03.2016 : 
  
   Years : Months : Days : 
4.0  4.1 Educational and Professional Qualifications : 
   4.1.1 Degree :––––––––––.
   4.1.2 External/Internal :––––––––––.
   4.1.3 Subjects :––––––––––.
   4.1.4 Date qualified for the degree :––––––––––.
   4.1.5 University :––––––––––.
  4.2 Post Graduate Qualification :
  Degree Subjects/ Level of Year University
   Field  Class
  4.3 Computer literacy : 
 Course Duration Institute Year
  4.4 Proficiency in English Language (State the courses 
followed) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
363
  4.5 Professional Qualifications : 
 Course Duration Institute Year
5.0 Professional Experience : 
Position held Place of work From To
6.0 Examination Fees : 
  6.1 Name of the branch to which payment was made :              
––––––––––.
  6.2 Amount :––––––––––.
  6.3 Date was payment :––––––––––.
Paste one side of the bank deposit slip
(Keep a photocopy of the invoice)
Declaration by the Applicant : 
(Sign before the person certifying) details mentioned herein 
are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and the bank 
deposit slip relating to the examination fee is pasted. I hereby abide 
by any decision taken before, during or after the examination, if 
I am deemed not qualified to sit the exam in accordance with 
rules and regulations relating to the conduct of the examination. 
I further abide by all rules and regulation stipulated by the Sri 
Lanka Institute of Development Administration. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Applicant. 
Date :––––––––––.
7.0 Certification of the Signature : 
This is to certify Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................... 
signed herewith and resided at ..................................... is 
personally known to me, and he/she placed her signature before 
me, after pasting the bank deposit slip herewith. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Attestor. 
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
8.0 Recommendation by the Head of Department : 
(Only for candidates engaged in Government/Provincial 
Government/Government Corporations Service) I, do herewith 
recommend and submit the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ......
.............................. serving as a ........................................ at the 
Ministry/Department Institution o f ............................................. 
necessary actions to release from the service of this institution 
can be taken if selected for this post. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Institution. 
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
02-584/1
–––––––––––––––––––
LEGAL  DRAFTSMAN'S  DEPARTMENT 
Competitive Examination for the filling of Vacancies 
in the Posts of Translator in the Legal Draftsman's 
Department - 2016
APPLICATIONS are called by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations on behalf of the Legal Draftsman's Department 
from qualified persons for the competitive examination to 
select suitable persons to fill 10 Vacancies in the posts of 
Translator (English/Sinhala) and 11 Vacancies in the posts of 
Translator (English/Tamil) in the Legal Draftsman's Department. 
Applications prepared according to the specimen form appearing 
at the end of this notification, shall be forwarded, separately 
for each post, to the "Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of 
Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo" under registered cover, 
to reach him on or before the date specified below. The words 
"Competitive Examination for the posts of Translator (English/
Sinhala) or posts of translator (English/Tamil) - 2016 of the Legal 
Draftsman's Department" should be stated clearly on the top left-
hand corner of the envelope. Further, the name of the examination 
in Sinhala and Tamil applications shall be written in English in 
addition to Sinhala or Tamil. 
(A) Closing date for applications is 21st March, 2016. 
Note : No complaint on any alleged loss or delay of an 
application or related document in the post will be 
entertained. 
01. Recruitment Procedure : 
* Recruitment will be made on the results of a written 
examination. 
* Out of the candidates who have passed both question 
papers at the written examination, such number 
of candidates equal to the number expected to be 
recruited will be called for a general interview based 
on the total marks obtained for both papers, in order of 
merit. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
364
* The number of appointments to be made and the 
effective date of appointments will be determined by 
the Legal Draftsman. 
02. Terms of Employment : 
 (i) This post is permanent.
 (ii) The selected  candidates shall acquire proficiency in 
the other language within five (05) years from the date 
of appointment and officers who joined the service 
in a language which is not an official language shall 
acquire language proficiency in one of the official 
languages within three years (03) from the date of 
appointment and shall also acquire proficiency in 
the other official language within six years (06) 
from the date of appointment in terms of the Public 
Administration Circular 07/2007 and other incidental 
circulars. 
 (iii) This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of 
the Public Service Commission, Establishment Code 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the 
Financial Regulations of the Government and other 
Departmental Regulations. 
 (iv) The appointment of any candidate who fails to and/
or refuses to or avoids to assume duties on the date of 
appointment is liable to be cancelled. 
03. Salary Scale. - This post carries a salary scale (MN 
6-2006A) - of Rs. 17,680 -10x320 - 11x365 - 15x450 - Rs. 31,645 
per month in terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 
06/2006.
04. Qualifications : 
 4.1 Educational Qualifications : 
 (i) Every candidate -
 ( a) shall have obtained a degree from a university 
recognized by the University Grants 
Commission ; 
or
 ( b) shall have been enrolled as an Attorney-at-
Law of the Supreme Court having passed 
Final Examination for Attorneys-at-law,
Together with 
 (ii) a credit pass or a higher pass in English language 
at the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary 
Level) Examination or at least an ordinary pass 
in English Language at the General Certificate 
of Education (Advanced Level) Examination 
or a higher qualification in English Language 
(recognized by the App ointing Authority) with a 
credit pass or any higher pass in Sinhala/Tamil 
language at the General Certificate of Education 
(Ordinary Level) Examination or an ordinary 
pass in Sinhala/Tamil language at the General 
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) 
Examination or any higher pass in Sinhala/Tamil 
language relating to the post applied for. 
 4.2 Physical fitness.- Every candidate shall have sufficient 
physical and mental fitness -
 (i) to work in any part of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) to be able to carry out the duties of his office. 
 4.3 Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Candidates shall be citizens of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Candidates shall be of exemplary character,
 (iii) Candidates shall have fulfilled all the required 
qualifications for recruitment to the post as at the 
closing date of applications. 
 (iv) Candidates shall not have been found guilty of 
any offence under the laws of Sri Lanka. 
 4.4 Age limit : 
 (i) Lower age limit : 21 years. 
 (ii) Upper age limit : 35 years. 
  (The upper age limit does not apply to those who 
are already holding permanent posts in the Public 
Service or Provincial Public Service.)
  Accordingly if any candidate does not hold a 
permanent post in the Public Service or Provincial 
Public Service, his birthday shall fall on or before 
14.03.1995 and on or after 14.03.1981 for him 
to qualify himself to fall within the specified age 
limit. 
05. Syllabus : 
 5.1 Written Examination : 
  The open competitive examination for the 
recruitment to the posts of Translators (English/
Sinhala) and Translators (English/Tamil) in the 
Legal Draftsman's Department consists of the 
following question papers : 
(01) Proficiency in translation - 100 marks - Time 
03 hours. 
(02) Proficiency in language - 100 marks - Time           
03 hours. 
  Name of the  Syllabus Minimum
  question paper  marks for
    a pass 
01. Proficiency in  Translation of a part of an  40%
 translation Act of parliament from English
  language to Sinhala/Tamil
  Comparison of a part of an 
  Act in English language with an 
  incorrect Sinhala/Tamil 
  translation thereof and revision 
  of the said Sinhala/Tamil 
  translation in line with the
  English version. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
365
  Name of the  Syllabus Minimum
  question paper  marks for
    a pass 
02. Language   40%
 Proficiency 
 Part I - 
 Knowledge in An essay, summary, spelling 
 Sinhala/Tamil and construction of sentences 
 Language  in such manner as to convey 
  the correct meaning of words.
 Part II - 
 Knowledge in An essay, summary, spelling 
 English and construction of sentences 
 Language  in such manner as to convey 
  the correct meaning of words.
 The candidates shall sit for one of the two 
 relevant official languages (Sinhala/Tamil) and 
 the English language question papers.
 5.2 General interview (No marks given) .- Examination 
of the qualifications and the physical fitness of 
candidates. 
06. Conditions of Examination : 
 (i) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala and Tamil 
languages. Every candidate shall select one language. 
Every candidate applying for the examination shall 
answer a paper which has been prepared to test the 
language proficiency in the selected language and a paper 
to test proficiency in English language. This includes the 
translation of a part of a document in English to Sinhala/
Tamil to test his proficiency in translation.
 (ii) Examination fee is Rs. 750. The examination fee shall 
be paid in cash to any Post Office to be credited to the 
Government Revenue under Revenue Head 2003-02-13 
of the Commissioner - General of Examinations and the 
receipt obtained in the name of the candidate shall be 
pasted by one of its margins in the specific place in the 
application so that it would not get detached. It would 
be useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt with the 
candidate. Money orders or stamps will not be accepted 
as the examination fee. The examination fee paid will 
not be refunded or transferred for other examination 
under any circumstances. 
 (iii) The examination will be held in Colombo in May 2016. 
The date of the examination will be notified later. 
 (iv) Incomplete applications will be rejected without prior 
informing. 
Note.- No candidate will be allowed to enter the 
examination hall without the admission card. Only 
the admission card where the candidate's signature 
is attested should be produced to the Supervisor 
of the exami nation hall on the day on which the 
examination begins. 
  The issuance of  an admission card to any candidate 
shall not be considered as acceptance of the fact that he/
she has fulfilled the required qualifications to sit for the 
examination. 
 (v) The application should be prepared in A4 paper of the 
size 23x25 c. m. using both sides of the paper. Heads 
1 to 8 should appear on the first page, Heads 9 to 11 
should appear on the second page and Head 12 should 
appear on the third page. The relevant particulars should 
be clearly written in candidate's own hand writing. 
Applications not in conformity with the specimen 
application form and incomplete applications will be 
rejected without prior informing. It would be useful to 
retain a copy of the duly completed application. 
  Further, it is notified that the candidates should check 
if the completed application is in conformity with the 
specimen application form given in the examination 
notification. Any application not in conformity with 
the specimen application form will be rejected without 
prior informing. Candidates are required to prepare the 
application in conformity with the specimen application 
form attached hereto. 
 (vi) The candidates who are members of the Public Service 
or the Provincial Public Service shall forward their 
applications through the Heads of their Departments.
 (vii) The Commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue the admission cards to candidates who are 
within the age limit specified in the notification and 
who have forwarded duly filled applications together 
with the relevant receipt, in proof of payment of the 
examination fee, on or before the closing date of 
application and the receipt of the applications will not 
be acknowledged. As soon as the admission cards are 
sent to the candidates the Department of Examinations 
will publish a notice in newspapers to that effect. Any 
candidate who has not received his admission card at 
least five days before the date of examination referred 
to in the notice, should inquire from the Organizations 
and Foreign Examinations branch of the Examinations 
Department Sri Lanka with regard to the non-receipt 
of his/her admission card, correctly furnishing the 
name of the examination applied for, his full name, the 
number of his national identity card and his address. If 
he is residing outside the limits of Colombo, it would 
be advantageous for him/her to make such inquiry by a 
letter of request addressed to the fax number specified in 
the notice giving the required information together with 
a fax number enabling the Examination Department to 
send him a copy of the admission card without delay. 
In making such inquiry, it would also be advantageous 
for him/her to keep readily available with him/her the 
copy of the application forwarded by him/her, copy 
of the receipt issued on payment of the examination 
fee and a copy of the registered postal article receipt 
issued in registering the application to enable to furnish 
any further information required by the Examinations 
Department. 
 (viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves 
the right to postpone or cancel the examination on the 
approval of the Legal Draftsman.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
366
 (ix) The candidates are subject to the rule s imposed by 
the Commissioner General of Examinations for the 
conduct of the examination. If such rules are violated, 
he/she will be liable to any punishment imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
 (x) Identity of the candidates.- Every candidates shall prove 
his/her identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor 
of the examination hall. Only one of the following 
documents will be accepted for the purpose :
  (a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of 
Registration of Persons ; or 
  (b) Valid passport.
 (XI) Note : 
 ( a) No document or copy thereof shall be affixed to the 
application. 
 ( b) Applications of candidates who fail to produce the 
originals of relevant documents when requested to do 
so, will not be considered. 
  Candidates presently employed in the Public Service. 
Provincial Public Service or in state Corporations shall 
forward their applications through the Heads of their 
respective Departments or Institutions. It is compulsory 
that every candidate should get his/her signature, in 
the admission card, attested. A candidate sitting for the 
examination through an institution should get his/her 
signature attested by the Head of the relevant institution 
or by an officer authorized by him. Other candidates 
should get his/her signature attested by a Principal of a 
Government School, Grama Niladhari of the Division, 
Justice of the Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Attorney-
at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the 
Armed Forces, Staff officer holding a permanent post 
in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service, 
receiving a consolidated salary of or over Rs. 240,360 
per annum, a Viharadhipathi or a Chief Priest of a 
Buddhist temple, or a person in charge of a religious 
place belonging to any other religion who is holding a 
significant position as a priest. 
 (XII) Punishment for furnishing false information. - If it is 
revealed that a candidate does not have the required 
qualifications, his/her candidature may be liable to be 
cancelled at any time prior to the examination, during, 
or any time after the examination. 
  If it is revealed that a candidate has furnished any fact 
which is false knowing it to be false or if he/she has will 
fully suppressed any material fact, he/she may be liable 
to be dismissed from the Public Service. 
07. Release of results .- The Commissioner General of 
Examinations will personally issue results to the candidates by 
post or through the web site www.results.exams.gov.lk
08. The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, 
Circulars issued from time to time regarding the Public Service, 
the related Service Minutes and the amendments made thereto are 
applicable to this post. 
09. The Legal Draftsman will decide on any matter which is 
not provided for in this notification. 
10. The final decision whether to fill or not to fill vacancies 
or to fill part of the vacancies shall lie with the Legal Draftsman. 
11. In the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy between 
the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
  D. S. H. KumaRajeewa,
  Legal Draftsman.
Legal Draftsman's Department. 
Colombo 12, 
On this 01st day of February, 2016. 
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
comPetitive examination foR the fiLLing of vacancies in 
the Posts of tRansLatoR in the LegaL dRaftsmans 
dePaRtment - 2016
01.  Post applied for : 
  English/Sinhala Translator  - 1
  English/Tamil Translator  - 2
  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
02. The medium in which the candidate intends to sit for the 
examination : 
 Sinhala - 2
 Tamil - 3
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
03. Name with the initials at the end : 
  (i) In English block capital letters :––––––––––.  
  ( Ex. : GUNAWARDHANA, M. G. B. S. K.)
  (ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
04. Names denoted by the initials : 
  (i) In English block capital letters :––––––––––.  
 (ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
05. Perman ent Address :
  (i) In English block capital letters :––––––––––.
  (ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
06. The address to which the admission card to be sent :–––––––.
 (In English block capital letters)
07. Sex : 
 Male  - 0
 Female  - 1
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
08. National Identity Card No. :
09. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :
 Yes - 1
 No  - 2
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
367
GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  KOTELAWALA  DEFENCE  
UNIVERSITY  UNDERGRADUATE  CADETSHIPS  
(MALE / FEMALE)
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified Sri Lankans 
for Undergraduate Cadetships (Male & Female) at General Sir 
John Kotelawala Defence University Ratmalana and its Southern 
Campus Suriyawewa from 01st February 2016 to 01st March, 
2016. 
2. General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University has been 
empowered to award Degrees to those Officer Cadets who, 
after being enlisted to the commissioned officer ranks in the 
Regular Forces of the Tri-Services will successfully complete 
the academic & military components of studies pertaining to the 
degree programmes by the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence 
Academy Act,  No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments 
thereto.
3. The degree programmes applicable to the Officer Cadets 
will be conducted at, 
10. Date of Birth : 
 Year : Month : Date :
11.  I. Educational Qualifications :
  II. Highest qualification obtained in the second language  
  :––––––––––––.
  III. Highest qualification obtained in the first language :
   ––––––––––––.
(In the case of G. C. E. (O/L, A/L) Examinations, 
the year and the Grades (Credit/Distinction) obtained 
should be stated).
  VI. Degree qualifications : 
 Degree Subjects Pass (Class) Year Name of the  
     University 
  V. Attorney-at-Law :––––––––––.
12. I. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any 
offence ? Yes/No 
  If yes, please give particulars :––––––––––.
  II. Examination fees :––––––––––.
   Receipt No. :––––––––––.
   Date of payment :––––––––––.
   Office where payment was made :––––––––––.
Please paste the receipt here firmly so that it would 
not get detached. 
13. Applicant's Certificate : 
 ( a) I do hereby solemnly declare/make oath that the 
particulars furnished by me in this application are true 
and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
 ( b) I am aware that if this statement made by me is found 
to be f alse or incorrect before selection, I am liable 
to be disqualified and if found to be false or incorrect 
after appointment, I am liable to be dismissed from 
service, without compensation, subject to the relevant 
procedures. I further state that I am subject to the rules 
set by the Commissioner General of Examinations in 
respect of conducting the examination and that I have 
affixed hereto the receipt obtained on payment of the 
relevant examination fee. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant. 
Date :––––––––––.
14. I. Attestation of the signature of the Applicant : 
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. (full 
name) who is forwarding this application is personally known to 
me and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this 
................................ day of 2016 and that the receipt on payment 
of the relevant examination fee is affixed hereto. 
 ––––––––––,
 Signature of the Attestor. 
Full name of the Attestor :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
(affix the official seal)
 II. Certificate of the Head of the Department : 
I hereby certify that I have examined particulars furnished 
above by the applicant and that the said particulars are found to 
be correct and I also certify that his/her performance, attendance 
and conduct are satisfactory. If he/she is selected for the above 
post, he/she could/could not b e released from the service of this 
Department. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Department. 
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
(affix the official seal)
02-516
––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
368
KDU - Ratmalana
* Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) 
degree (5 years)
* Bachelor of Science honours in Engineering degree                 
(4 1/2 years)
* Bachelor of Science honours in Software Engineering 
degree (4 1/2 years)
* Bachelor of Science in Management and Technical 
Sciences degree (3 years)
* Bachelor of Science in Logistics Management degree           
(3 years)
* Bachelor of Science in Social Sciences degree (3 years)
Southern Campus - Suriyawewa
* Bachelor of Science honours in Quantity Surveying           
(4 1/2 years)
* Bachelor of Science in Quantity Surveying (3 1/2 years)
* Bachelor of Science honours in Surveying Sciences          
(4 1/2 years)
* Bachelor of Science honours in Information Technology 
(4 1/2 years)
3.1.  The allocation of Officer Cadets for the three services 
will be based on the availability of vacancies in each 
service and the aggregate marks obtained at the three 
interviews, conducted for selection. Officer Cadets 
will be commissioned in the Regular Forces of the 
Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force, after successful 
completion of the degree programmes. 
 3.2 On successful completion of the academic and 
military training components of the respective degree 
programmes, the Officer Cadets will be awarded one 
of the following degrees :
 * Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 
(MBBS)
* Bachelor of Science honours in Engineering
* Bachelor of Science honours in Software Engineering
* Bachelor of Science in Management and Technical 
Sciences
* Bachelor of Science in Logistics Management
* Bachelor of Science in Social Sciences
* Bachelor of Science honours in Surveying Sciences
* Bachelor of Science honours in Quantity Surveying
* Bachelor of Science in Quantity Surveying
* Bachelor of Science honours in Information 
Technology
 3.3 All degree programmes are conducted only in the 
medium of English. 
 3.4 Selected candidates will be allowed to follow one 
of the following Bachelor’s Degree Programmes in 
accordance with their qualifications.
 (a) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 
(MBBS) – Five years (Male and Female):
  For those who have followed Bio Science Stream 
(Biology, Chemistry and Physics) at the G. C. E. 
(A/L) Examination in 2015, obtained a minimum of 
three simple passes (S), and are eligible to apply for 
university admission. 
 (b) Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) Honours in 
Engineering in Aeronautical /Bio-Medical/Civil/
Electrical & Electronic/Marine/Mechanical/
Mechatronic - Four and a half years (Male & 
Female) :
  For those who have followed Maths Stream 
(Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) at 
the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2015 or 2014, 
obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) and 
are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 ( c) Bachelor of Science (BSc.) Honours in Software 
Engineering - Four and a half years (Male) :
  For those who have followed Maths Stream  at 
the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2015 or 2014 , 
obtained a minimum of Simple Passes (S), for 
Combined Mathematics, Physics  and any one of 
the following subjects. 
  Chemistry,  Higher Mathematics 
  Information and Communication Technology
  and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (d) Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Management & 
Technical Sciences - Three years (Male) :
  For those who have followed Bio or Maths Stream 
at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2015 or 2014, 
obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and 
are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 ( e) Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Logistics 
Management – Three years (Male & Female) :
  For those who have followed Bio, Maths or 
Commerce Streams  at the G. C. E. (A/L) 
Examination in 2015 or 2014, obtained a minimum 
of three Simple Passes (S) and are eligible to apply 
for university admission. 
 ( f) Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Social Sciences – 
Three years (Male and Female) :
  For those who have followed any stream at the G. 
C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2015 or 2014, obtained 
a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are 
eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (g) Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Surveying 
Sciences – Four and a half years (Male and 
Female): 
  For those who have followed Physics, Combined 
Mathematics and any other subject available at 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
369
the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2015 or 2014 , 
obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and 
are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (h) Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Quantity 
Surveying - Four and a half years (Male and 
Female):
  Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Quantity Surveying 
- Three and a half years (Male) :
  For those who have followed three (3) of the 
following subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
in 2015 or 2014,  obtained a minimum of three 
Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for 
university admission. 
  At least one subject from, 
  Combined Mathematics/Higher Mathematics 
  and the other subject/subjects from the following 
list :
  Accounting Economics Business Statistics
  Business Studies Physics Chemistry
  Information and Communication Technology
  In addition, candidates should satisfy the 
following minimum requirements at the G. C. E. 
(O/L) Examination. 
  ( a) A Credit Pass (C) in Mathematics I or II
  ( b) A Simple Pass (S) in Science I or II.
 ( i) Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in 
Information Technology - Four and a half years 
(Male) :
  For those who have followed the G. C. E. (A/L) 
Examination in any stream in 2015 or 2014, 
obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and 
are eligible to apply for university admission. 
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a range of 
common and special subjects pertaining to respective 
Degree Programmes, including English, Management, 
Information Technology, Law, International Studies 
and Military studies. 
3.6 They are also required to undergo continuous training 
in Physical Development, Drill, Weapon Training and 
Leadership, during their Degree Programmes. 
4. Other eligibility requirements for Officer Cadets.–  The 
candidates should be : 
 ( a) A citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ( b) Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of age 
on 01st March, 2016. 
Educational Qualifications : 
 ( c) The candidate should be eligible to apply for university 
admission having obtained a minimum of three Simple 
Passes (S) in the relevant stream of the G. C. E. (A/L) 
examination, and should : 
 (i) Pass the Common General Test ; 
 (ii) Obtain a minimum of a credit (C) pass for 
English language at G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) 
Examination for other degree programmes.
 (d) The following minimum physical standards should be 
satisfied : 
     
  Male Female
Height Army  5'6"   5'3"
 Navy  5'6" 5'3"
 Air Force  5'6" 5'4" 
Weight Army 50kg –
 Navy 52kg 41kg
 Air Force 17<BMI<25 17<BMI<25
Chest  32" (unexpanded) –
Note.– (If a candidate possesses National Level 
achievements in sports or other relevant activities, 
the above physical standards may be relaxed by the 
Secretary, Ministry of Defence and Chairman of the 
Board of Management, General Sir John Kotelawala 
Defence University).
 ( e) The candidates should confirm to the required medical 
standards.– Successful candidates are required to pass 
a medical test followi ng the submission of a Medical 
Declaration Form in the prescribed format to the 
satisfaction of the Secretary, Ministry of Defence and 
Chairman of the Board of Management, General Sir 
John Kotelawala Defence University. If a candidate is 
found to have provided false information in the Medical 
Declaration Form, prior to the selection, such candidate 
shall be disqualified and liable to be discharged on the 
ground of the provision of false information. 
  (Medical Declaration Form can be downloaded from 
the university website www.kdu.ac.lk)
 ( f) The candidate should be unmarried. (No Officer Cadet 
will be permitted to get married whilst under training 
and until permitted to do so by Service Regulations.)
4. Conditions of Service.– Selected candidates will be enlisted 
as Officer Cadets of General Sir John Kotelawala Defence 
University, Ratmalana or its Southern Campus, Suriyawewa. 
They will be subjected to laws, regulations and orders made or 
given under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy 
Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto. An 
Officer Cadet shall serve in  the armed service into which he is 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
370
commissioned as an Officer for a continuous and uninterrupted 
period of not less than (12) Twelve years from the date on which 
he is graduated in the respective Degree Programme. 
5. At the time of enlistment selected candidates will have 
to enter into a Bond and an agreement with the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory period 
as aforesaid, after being graduated in the respective degree 
programmes.
6. Officer Cadets will be paid approximately Rs. 38,000 per 
month as pay and allowances. In addition, the following facilities 
will be provided free of charge: 
 (i) Board and lodging ;
 (ii) Uniforms ; 
 (iii) Batman facilities ;
 (iv) Sports and recreational facilities ;
 (v) Medical facilities.
7. On being co mmissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri 
Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be entitled for pay and 
allowances appropriate to the rank in accordance with the Service 
pay codes. 
(a)  The following allowances are payable monthly : 
 (i) Qualification allowance ;
 (ii) Ration allowance ;
 (iii) Disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for 
married officers only) ;
 (iv) Uniform up keep allowance. 
(b)  Other facilities and allowances : 
 (i) Accommodation when ordered to live in ;
 (ii) Limited rent allowance when living in a rented 
house ; 
 (iii) uniform allowance ;
 (iv) batman allowance ; 
8. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed by 
the following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and 
conditions of Service :-
 (i) The Army/Navy/Air Force pay code.
 (ii) Current regulations for officers of the Army/Navy/Air 
Force published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette. 
 (iii) Current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuity 
Code pubilshed in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
9. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required 
to undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Vice 
Chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University and 
/or respective Service Commanders. 
10. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for 
training in any part of Sri Lanka or Abroad. 
11. Officer Cadets under training will be required to stay in 
accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by 
the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University or by the 
respective Service establishments. 
12. Language Requirements. – Selected candidates will be 
required to comply with any rules and regulations already made 
or that may hereafter be made for giving effect to the language 
policy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 
13. Proof of Identity.– Candidates will be required to produce 
proof of their National Identity. Identity cards issued by the 
Department of Registration of Persons Passport, Pos t Master 
- General or Driving License issued by the Registrar of Motor 
Vehicles will be accepted for this purpose. 
14. Applications.– Application forms and the Brochures can 
be downloaded from the University Website www.kdu.ac.lk.
15. Duly completed applications should accompany a 
receipt obtained by paying Rs. 1,000 (One Thousand Rupees) 
to any Branch of the Bank of Ceylon  in favour of “The Vice 
Chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala D efence University” 
to be credited to the Current Account Number “9405831” of the 
Bank of Ceylon, Idam a Branch, Moratuwa. The applications 
without basic qualifications and  not duly filled in accordance 
with the conditions mentioned here in will be rejected without 
notification. The application fee will not be refunded. A board 
appointed by Vice-Chancellor will review all applicatins received 
and shorist according to qualifications of the candidates. Those 
who are shortlisted will be called for the preliminary interview. 
16. The duly completed applications should be forwarded to 
"The Registrar, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University, 
Ratmalana" under registered cover to reach him on or before 01st 
March, 2016. 
"Application for Cadetships" and the stream applied, 
should be written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. 
Applications received after the closing date or do not conform to 
the requirements of this notification will be rejected. 
17. Applications from officers in Government Service and 
Corporations or Statutory Bodies should be forwarded through 
the Head of the Departments/Corporations/Statutory Bodies 
and they should accompany a certificate issued by the relevant 
institutional head to the effect that the Officer would be released 
if selected. 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
371
18. Applications should accompany only the certified copies 
of the certificate of Registration of Birth, G. C. E. (O/L), G. C. 
E. (A/L) result sheets with a certification for being qualified for 
University admission( Yes).
19. Preliminary selection will be made from among those 
candidates who have achieved the required standards in 
accordance with the evaluation criterian determined by the 
Selection Committee appointed by the Board of Management of 
the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University. Candidates 
who are selected from the first interview will be required to 
undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Board of Management 
of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University. The 
final selection will be made by the Final Selection Committee 
appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John 
Kotelawala Defence University. 
20. Candidates who are selected for interviews and tests will 
be informed in writing of the venues, times and the dates of such 
interviews. Travelling or other expenses for this purpose will not 
be paid to applicants. 
21. Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do 
so by giving him a testimonial. Any form of canvassing would be 
considered as a disqualification. 
22. Receipt o f Applications will not be acknowledged. No 
correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with regard to 
rejected applications. 
23. If a disparity exists between the Sinhala language and 
Tamil language in the Gazette notification, you are hereby 
requested to follow the instructions as per the Gazette notification 
in Sinhala language. 
 KaRunasena hettiaRachchi, 
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Defence and
 Chairman of the Board of Management 
 General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University. 
02–699
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.