

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1809$13 - 2013 uehs ui 09 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'05'09
No. 1809/13  - THURSDAY ,  MAY  09,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY  LAW  NO. 41 OF  1978
Order under Section 3
By virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 3 of the Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 of 1978, I, Mahinda
Rajapaksa, Minister of Defence and Urban Development, being of opinion that the area specified in Column I of Schedule I
hereto, having specified the metes and bounds in the corresponding entry in Column II of the Schedule I hereto are suitable
for development, do by this order declare such area to be an Urban Development area.
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA,
Minister of Defence and Urban Development.
Colombo 03,
23rd of April 2013.
Schedule I
Pelmadulla Urban Development Area
1A
Column I
All the area of lands falling within the Grama Niladhari
Division No. 171C Dombagaswinna, No. 171B Godagama, No.
167 Ganegama, No. 166 Kuttapitiya, No. 166A Udathula, No.
168C Warigama, No. 168 Denawaka Udakada, No. 168D Borala,
No. 168A Pelmadulla Town, No. 170 Panawenna, No. 170C
Kapuhentota, No. 167B Ihala Bopitiya, No. 168B Pelmadulla
Gama, No. 167D Pahala Bopitiya, No. 167C Rillhena, No. 171
Denawaka Pathakada,  No. 171A Sannasgama is defined by
the metes and bounds in the corresponding Culumn II and
falling within the Pelmadulla Divisional Secretariat Division
Area in Rathnapura District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
Column II
North :
From the intersection of the Southern boundary
Sannasgama Grama Niladhari Division and the centre of
Palugammana Road a line drawn East wards and North East
wards along the centre line of Palugammana Road until it
meets the centre line of Rathnapura - Balangoda Main Road;
thence, a line drawn South East wards along the centre line of
Rathnapura - Balangoda Main Road until it meets the centre
line of Dombagaswinna Road; thence, a line drawn North
East, South East and North East wards along the centre line
of Dombagaswinna Road cutting across the centre line of
Denawaka river and proceeds North wards along the centre

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
2A
line of Dombagaswinna Road until it meets the Thumbadeniya
Junction ; thence, a line drawn North East, South East and
North East wards along the centre line of Thumbadeniya Road
until it meets the centre line of Inn Dola; thence, a line drawn
South East wards along the centre line of Inn Dola until it
meets the centre line of Galamune Dola; thence, a line drawn
North East wards along the centre line of Galamune Dola
until it meets the centre line of Denawaka Road ; thence, a
line drawn South and South East wards along the centre line
of Denawaka Road until it meets the centre line of
Welanduragoda Road ; thence, a line drawn North East wards
along the centre line of Welanduragoda Road until it meets
Northern boundary of Ganegama Grama Niladhari Division ;
thence, a line drawn South East, North East and South East
Wards along the Northern boundary of Ganegama Grama
Niladhari Division until it meets the Eastern boundary of
Ganegama Grama Niladhari Division ; thence, a line drawn
South wards along the Eastern boundary of Ganegama Grama
Niladhari Division until it meets the Northern boundary of
Pelmadulla Town Grama Niladhari Division ; thence, a line
drawn East wards along the Northern boundary of Pelmadulla
Town Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the Northern
boundary of Pelmadullagama Grama Niladhari Division ;
thence, a line drawn North East wards along the Northern
boundary of Pelmadullagama Grama Niladhari Division until
it meets the Eastern boundary of Pelmadullagama Grama
Niladhari Division ; thence, a line drawn South East wards
along the Eastern boundary of Pelmadullagama Grama
Niladhari Division until it meets the Northern boundary of
Denawaka Udakada Grama Niladhari Division ; thence, a line
drawn South East wards along the Northern boundary of
Denawaka Udakada Grama Niladhari Division until it meets
the centre line of Kumbuke Dola ; thence, a line drawn South
West wards along the centre line of Kumbuke Dola until it
meets the centre line of Denawaka Ela ;  thence, a line drawn
East wards along the centre line of Denawaka Ela until it
meets the Northern boundary of Morathota Grama Niladhari
Division ; thence, a line drawn South East wards along the
Northern boundary of Morathota Grama Niladhari Division
until it meets the centre line of Weniwelpitiya Road.
East :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn South East
wards and South West wards crossing Pelmadulla - Balangoda
Main Road along the centre line of Ketetanna - Borala Road
until it meets the centre line of Rathnapura - Embilipitiya Main
Road ; thence, a line drawn South East wards along the centre
line of Pelmadulla - Embilipitiya main Road, Until it meets the
centre line of Poronuwa - Ketethenna Road.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
3A
South:
From the last mentioned point a line drawn West wards
along the Southern boundary of Kapuhenthota Grama
Niladhari Division until it meets the meeting point of Southern
and Western boundaries of Kapuhenthota Grama Niladhari
Division ; thence, a line drawn North West wards along the
Western boundary of Kapuhenthota Grama Niladhari Division
unitl it meets the Southern boundary of Ihala Bopitiya Grama
Niladhari Division ; thence, a line drawn North wards and
South West wards along the Southern boundary of Ihala
Bopitiya Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the Western
boundary of Ihala Bopitiya Grama Niladhari Division ;
West :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn North West,
North and North West wards along the Western boundary of
Ihalabopitiya Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the
meeting point of Southern and Western boundaries of Rilhena
Grama Niladhari Division ; thence, a line drawn North West
and North East wards along the Western boundary of Rilhena
Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the meeting point of
Eastern and Southern boundaries of Denawaka Pathakada
Grama Niladhari Division ; thence,  a line drawn North West
wards along the Southern boundary of Denawaka Pathakada
Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the Northern boundary
of Denawaka Pathakada Grama Niladhari Division ; thence, a
line drawn North East wards along the Northern boundary of
Denawaka Pathakada Grama Niladhari Division until it meets
the Southern boundary of Sannasgama Grama Niladhari
Division ; thence, a line drawn West wards along the Southern
boundary of Sannasgama Grama Niladhari Division until it
meets the centre line of Palugammana Road where it meets
the starting point.
05 - 619
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.