

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2053$43 - 2018 ckjdß ui 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'01'12
No. 2053/43  -  FRIDAY,  JANUARY  12,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No.  15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the Changes to Sri Lanka Auditing Standards effective for the financial periods
ending on or after 31 March 2018 published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards,
Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Standard shall be effective for the financial periods ending on or after 31 March 2018. Earlier
application is permitted.
By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
 Secretary.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
12th January, 2018.
N.B.— Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary are published separately.
1A - PG 004979 - (05/2020)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards Changes effective for the financial periods ending on or after 31 
March 2018 
 
Description 2014 2017 
Glossary 
Annual report A document issued by an entity, 
ordinarily on an annual basis, which 
includes its financial statements together 
with the auditor’s report thereon.  
 
A document, or combination of 
documents, prepared typically on an 
annual basis by management or those 
charged with governance in accordance 
with law, regulation or custom, the 
purpose of which is to provide owners (or 
similar stakeholders) with information on 
the entity’s operations and the entity’s 
financial results and financial position as 
set out in the fin ancial statements. An 
annual report contains or accompanies the 
financial statements and the auditor’s 
report thereon and usually includes 
information about the entity’s 
developments, its future outlook and risks 
and uncertainties, a statement by the 
entity’s governing body, and reports 
covering governance matters. 
 
Assurance 
engagement 
An engagement in which a practitioner 
expresses a conclusion designed to 
enhance the degree of confidence of the 
intended users other than the responsible 
party about the outcome of the evaluation 
or measurement of a subject matter 
against criteria. The outcome of the 
evaluation or measurement  of a subject 
matter is the information that results from 
applying the criteria (also see Subject 
matter information). Under the Sri Lanka 
Framework for Assurance Engagements 
there are two types of assurance 
engagement a practitioner is permitted to 
perform: a reasonable assurance 
engagement and a limited assurance 
engagement.  
 
Reasonable assurance engagement —The 
objective of a reasonable assurance 
engagement is a reduction in assurance 
engagement risk to an acceptably low 
level in the circumstances of the  
engagement as the basis for a positive 
form of expression of the practitioner’s 
conclusion.  
 
An engagement in which a practitioner 
aims to obtain sufficient appr opriate 
evidence in order to express a conclusion 
designed to enhance the degree of 
confidence of the intended users other than 
the responsible party about the subject 
matter information (that is, the outcome of 
the measurement or evaluation of an 
underlying subject matter against criteria). 
Each assurance engagement is classified 
on two dimensions: 
 
(i) Either a reasonable assurance 
engagement or a limited assurance 
engagement:  
   
a. Reasonable assurance 
engagement― An assurance 
engagement in which the 
practitioner reduces engagement risk 
to an acceptably low level in the 
circumstances of the engagement as 
the basis for the practitioner’s 
conclusion. The practitioner’s 
conclusion is expressed in a form 
that conveys th e practitioner’s 
opinion on the outcome of the 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  3A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
Limited assurance engagement —The 
objective of a limited assurance 
engagement is a reduction in assurance 
engagement risk to a level that is 
acceptable in the cir cumstances of the 
engagement, but where that risk is greater 
than for a reasonable assurance 
engagement, as the  basis for a negative 
form of expression of the practitioner’s 
conclusion.  
 
measurement or evaluation of the 
underlying subject matter against 
criteria. 
 
b. Limited assurance engagement― An 
assurance engagement in which the 
practitioner reduces engagement risk 
to a level that is acceptabl e in the 
circumstances of the engagement  
but where that risk is greater than 
for a reasonable assurance 
engagement as the basis for 
expressing a conclusion in a form 
that conveys whether, based on the 
procedures performed and evidence 
obtained, a matter(s) has come to the 
practitioner’s attention to cause the 
practitioner to believe the subject 
matter information is materially 
misstated. The nature, timing and 
extent of procedures performed in a 
limited assurance engagement is 
limited compared with that 
necessary in a reasonable assurance 
engagement but is planned to obtain 
a level of assurance that is, in the 
practitioner’s professional judgment, 
meaningful. To be meaningful, the 
level of assurance obtained by the 
practitioner is likely to enhance the 
intended users’ confidence about the 
subject matter information to a 
degree that is clearly more than 
inconsequential.  
 
(ii) Either an attestation engagement or a 
direct engagement:  
 
a. Attestation engagement―An 
assurance engagement in which a 
party other than the pr actitioner 
measures or evaluates the 
underlying subject matter against 
the criteria. A party other than the 
practitioner also often presents the 
resulting subject matter information 
in a report or statement. In some 
cases, however, the subject matter 
information may be presented by the 
practitioner in the assurance report. 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
In an attestation engagement, the 
practitioner’s conclusion addresses 
whether the subject matter 
information is free from material 
misstatement. The practitioner’s 
conclusion may be phras ed in terms 
of:  
 
i. The underlying subject matter and 
the applicable criteria;  
 
ii. The subject matter information 
and the applicable criteria; or  
 
iii. A statement made by the 
appropriate party(ies). 
  
b. Direct engagement - An assurance 
engagement in which the 
practitioner measures or evaluates 
the underlying subject matter 
against the applicable criteria and 
the practitioner presents the 
resulting subject matter information 
as part of, or accompanying, the 
assurance report. In a direct 
engagement, the practitio ner’s 
conclusion addresses the reported 
outcome of the measurement or 
evaluation of the underlying subject 
matter against the criteria. 
Assurance skills 
and techniques 
[No Correspondence] Those planning, evidence gathering, 
evidence evaluation, communication and 
reporting skills and techniques 
demonstrated by an assurance practitioner 
that are distinct from expertise in the 
underlying subject matter of any particular 
assurance engagement or its measurement 
or evaluation. 
 
Carve-out 
method 
[No Correspondence] Method of dealing with the services 
provided by a subservice organization, 
whereby the service organization’s 
description of its system includes the 
nature of the services provided by a 
subservice organization, but that 
subservice organizatio n’s relevant control 
objectives and related controls are 
excluded from the service organization’s 
description of its system and from the 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  5A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
scope of the service auditor’s engagement. 
The service organization’s description of 
its system and the scope of the se rvice 
auditor’s engagement include controls at 
the service organization to monitor the 
effectiveness of controls at the subservice 
organization, which may include the 
service organization’s review of an 
assurance report on controls at the 
subservice organization. 
 
Control objective [No Correspondence] The aim or purpose of a particular aspect of 
controls. Control objectives relate to risks 
that controls seek to mitigate.  
 
Controls at the 
service 
organization 
[No Correspondence] Controls over the achievement of a control 
objective that is covered by the service 
auditor’s assurance report.  
 
Controls at a 
subservice 
organization 
[No Correspondence] Controls at a subservice organization to 
provide reasonable assurance about the 
achievement of a control objective.  
 
Criteria The benchmarks used to evaluate or 
measure the subject matter including, 
where relevant, benchmarks for 
presentation and disclosure. Criteria can 
be formal or less formal. There can be 
different criteria for the same subject 
matter. Suitable criteria are required for 
reasonably consistent evaluation or 
measurement of a subject matter within 
the context of professional judgment.  
 
Suitable criteria —Exhibit the following 
characteristics:  
  
(a)  Relevance: relevant criteria 
contribute to conclusions that assist 
decision-making by the intended 
users. 
 
(b)  Completeness: criteria are 
sufficiently complete when relevant 
factors that could affect the 
conclusions in the context of the 
engagement circumstances are not 
omitted. Complete criteria include, 
where relevant, benchmarks for 
presentation and disclosure.  
The benchmarks used to measure or 
evaluate the underlying subject matter. The 
“applicable criteria” are the criteria used 
for the particular engagement. 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 
(c) Reliability: reliable criteria allow 
reasonably consistent evaluation or 
measurement of th e subject matter 
including, where relevant, 
presentation and disclosure, when 
used in similar circumstances by 
similarly qualified practitioners.  
 
(d)  Neutrality: neutral criteria contribute 
to conclusions that are free from bias.  
 
(e)  Understandability: understandable 
criteria contribute to conclusions that 
are clear, comprehensive, and not 
subject to significantly different 
interpretations.  
 
Direct 
assistance 
[No Correspondence] The use of internal auditors to perform 
audit procedures under the direction, 
supervision and review of the external 
auditor. 
 
Engagement 
circumstances 
[No Correspondence] The broad context defining the particular 
engagement, which includes: the terms of 
the engagement; whether it is a reasonable 
assurance engagement or a limited 
assurance engagement, the characteristics 
of the underlying subject matter; the 
measurement or evaluation criteria; the 
information needs of the intended users; 
relevant characteristics of the responsible 
party, the measurer or evaluator, and the 
engaging party and their environment; and 
other matters, for example events, 
transactions, conditions and practices, that 
may have a significant effect on the 
engagement. 
 
Engagement 
partner 
The partner or other person in the firm 
who is responsible for the engagement 
and its performance, and for the report 
that is issued on behal f of the firm, and 
who, where required, has the appropriate 
authority from a professional, legal or 
regulatory body. 
The partner or other person in the firm 
who is responsible for the engagement and 
its performance, and for the report that is 
issued on beh alf of the firm, and who, 
where required, has the appropriate 
authority from a professional, legal or 
regulatory body. “Engagement partner” 
should be read as referring to its public 
sector equivalents where relevant. 
 
Engagement [No Correspondence] The risk that the practitioner expresses an 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  7A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
risk inappropriate conclusion when the subject 
matter information is materially misstated.  
 
Engagement 
team 
All partners and staff performing the 
engagement, and any individuals engaged 
by the firm or a network firm who 
perform procedures on the engagement. 
This excludes external experts engaged 
by the firm or a network firm.*  
* SLAuS 620, Using the Work of an 
Auditor’s Expert , paragraph 6(a), 
defines the term “auditor’s expert.” 
All partners and staff performing the 
engagement, and any individuals engaged 
by the firm or a network firm who perform 
procedures on the engagement.  This 
excludes an auditor’s external  expert 
engaged by the firm or by a network firm. 
The term “engagement team” also excludes 
individuals within the client’s internal audit 
function who provide direct assistance on 
an audit engagement when the external 
auditor complies with the requirements  of 
SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013). * 
* SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013), Using the 
Work of Internal Auditors, establishes 
limits on the use of direct assistance. It 
also acknowledges that the external auditor 
may be prohibited by law or regulation 
from obtaining direct  assistance from 
internal auditors. Therefore, the use of 
direct assistances is restricted to situations 
where it is permitted. 
 
Engagement 
team (in the 
context of 
SLSAE 3000 
(Revised) 
[No Correspondence] All partners and staff performing the 
engagement, and any individuals engaged 
by the firm or a network firm who perform 
procedures on the engagement. This 
excludes a practitioner’s external expert 
engaged by the firm or a network firm.* 
* SLSAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance 
Engagements Other Than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information. 
 
Engaging party [No Correspondence] The party(ies) that engages the practitioner 
to perform the assurance engagement. 
Evidence [No Correspondence] Information used by the practitioner in 
arriving at the practitioner’s conclusion. 
Evidence includes both information 
contained in relevant information systems, 
if any, and other information. For purposes 
of the SLSAEs:  
(i) Sufficiency of evidence is the measure 
of the quantity of evidence.  
(ii) Appropriateness of evidence is the 
measure of the quality of evidence.  
 

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
Financial 
statements 
A structured representation of historical 
financial information, including related 
notes, in tended to communicate an 
entity’s economic resources or 
obligations at a point in time or the 
changes therein for a period of time in 
accordance with a financial reporting 
framework. The related notes ordinarily 
comprise a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. The term “financial 
statements” ordinarily refers to a 
complete set of financial statements as 
determined by the requirements of the 
applicable financial reporting framework, 
but it can also refer to a single fi nancial 
statement. 
A structured representation of historical 
financial information, including disclosures, 
intended to communicate an entity’s 
economic resources or obligations at a point 
in time, or the changes therein for a period 
of time, in accordance with a financial 
reporting framework. The term “financial 
statements” ordinarily refers to a complete 
set of financial statements as determined by 
the requirements of the applicable financial 
reporting framework, but can also refer to a 
single financial st atement. Disclosures 
comprise explanatory or descriptive 
information, set out as required, expressly 
permitted or otherwise allowed by the 
applicable financial reporting framework, 
on the face of a financial statement, or in the 
notes, or incorporated ther ein by cross -
reference. 
 
Firm A sole practitioner, partnership or 
corporation or other entity of professional 
accountants.  
 
A sole practitioner, partnership or 
corporation or other entity of professional 
accountants. “Firm” should be read as 
referring to its public sector equivalents 
where relevant. 
 
General 
purpose 
framework 
The term “compliance framework” is 
used to refer to a financial reporting 
framework that requires compliance with 
the requirements of the framework, but 
does not contain the acknowledgements 
in (a) or (b) above.* 
* SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(a) 
The term “compliance framework” is used 
to refer to a financial reporting framework 
that requires compliance with the 
requirements of the framework, but does 
not contain the acknowledgements in (i) or 
(ii) above. * 
* SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the 
Independent Auditor and the Conduct of 
an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka 
Auditing Standards, paragraph 13(a) 
 
GHG statement 
* Footnote 
Assurance Framework, paragraph 8 SLSAE 3000 (Revised), paragraph 12(x) 
Inconsistency Other information that contradicts 
information contained in the audited 
financial statements. A material 
inconsistency may raise doubt about the 
audit conclusions drawn from audit 
evidence previously obtained and, 
possibly, about the basis for the auditor’ s 
opinion on the financial statements.  
 
[Deleted] 
Inclusive method No correspondence  Method of dealing with the services 
provided by a subservice organization, 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  9A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
whereby the service organization’s 
description of its system includes the nature 
of the servi ces provided by a subservice 
organization, and that subservice 
organization’s relevant control objectives 
and related controls are included in the 
service organization’s description of its 
system and in the scope of the service 
auditor’s engagement.  
 
Inquiry (in the 
context of 
SLSRE 2400 
(Revised)) 
No correspondence Inquiry consists of seeking information of 
knowledgeable persons from within or 
outside the entity. 
 
Intended users The person, persons or class of persons 
for whom the practitioner prepares the 
assurance report. The responsible party 
can be one of the intended users, but not 
the only one.  
 
The individual(s) or organization(s), or 
group(s) thereof that the practitioner  
expects will use the assurance report. In 
some cases, there may be intended users 
other than those to whom the assurance 
report is addressed. 
 
Sri Lanka 
Accounting 
Standards 
The Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 
issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board. 
 
[Deleted] 
Key audit 
matters 
No correspondence Those matters that, in the auditor’s 
professional judgment, were of most 
significance in the audit of the financial 
statements of the current period. Key audit 
matters are selected  from matters 
communicated with those charged with 
governance. 
Limited 
assurance (in 
the context of 
SLSRE 2400 
(Revised)) 
No correspondence The level of assurance  obtained where 
engagement risk is reduced to a level that is 
acceptable in the circumstances  of the 
engagement, but where that risk is greater 
than for a reasonable assurance engagement, 
as the basis for expressing a conclusion in 
accordance with this SLSRE. The 
combination of the nature, timing and extent 
of evidence gathering procedures is at l east 
sufficient for the practitioner to obtain a 
meaningful level of assurance. To be 
meaningful, the level of assurance obtained 
by the practitioner is likely to enhance the 
intended users’ confidence about the 
financial statements. 
 
Measurer or 
evaluator 
No correspondence The party(ies) who measures or evaluates 
the underlying subject matter against the 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
criteria. The measurer or evaluator 
possesses expertise in the underlying 
subject matter. 
 
Misstatement A difference between the amount, 
classification, presentation, or disclosure 
of a reported financial statement item and 
the amount, classification, presentation, 
or disclosure that is required for the item 
to be in accordance with the applicable 
financial reporting framework. 
Misstatements can arise from error or 
fraud. 
A difference between the reported amount, 
classification, presentation, or disclosure 
of a financial statement item and the 
amount, classification, presentation, or 
disclosure that is requir ed for the item to 
be in accordance with the applicable 
financial reporting framework. 
Misstatements can arise from error or 
fraud. 
 
… 
 
In the context of SLSAE 3000 (Revised), a 
misstatement is defined as a difference 
between the subject matter information and 
the appropriate measurement or evaluation 
of the underlying subject matter in 
accordance with the criteria. Misstatements 
can be intentional or unintentional, 
qualitative or quantitative, and include 
omissions 
 
Misstatement of 
fact 
Misstatement of fact —Other information 
that is unrelated to matters appearing in 
the audited financial statements  that is 
incorrectly stated or presented. A material 
misstatement of fact may undermine the 
credibility of the document containing 
audited financial statements. 
Misstatement of fact (with respect to other 
information)(in the context of SLSAE 3000 
(Revised))―Other information that is 
unrelated to matters appearing in the 
subject matter information or the assurance 
report that is incorrectly stated or 
presented. A material misstatement of fact 
may undermine the credibility of the 
document containing the subject matter 
information. 
 
Misstatement of 
the other 
information 
[No correspondence]  A misstatement of the other info rmation 
exists when the other information is 
incorrectly stated or otherwise misleading 
(including because it omits or obscures 
information necessary for a proper 
understanding of a matter disclosed in the 
other information). 
 
Modified 
opinion 
A qualified opinion, an adverse opinion 
or a disclaimer of opinion. 
A qualified opinion, an adverse opinion or 
a disclaimer of opinion  on the financial 
statements. 
 
Other Financial and non -financial information Financial or non -financial information 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  11A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
information (other than the financial statemen ts and 
the auditor’s report thereon) which is 
included, either by law, regulation, or 
custom, in a document containing audited 
financial statements and the auditor’s 
report thereon. 
 
(other than financial statements a nd the 
auditor’s report thereon) included in an 
entity’s annual report. 
Other 
information (in 
the context of 
SLSAE 3000 
(Revised)) 
[No correspondence] Information (other than the subject matter 
information and the assurance report 
thereon) which is includ ed, either by law, 
regulation or custom, in a document 
containing the subject matter information 
and the assurance report thereon. 
 
Practitioner (in 
the context of 
SLSAE 3000 
(Revised)) 
[No correspondence] The individual(s) conducting the 
engagement (usually the engagement 
partner or other members of the 
engagement team, or, as applicable, the 
firm). Where this SLSAE expressly 
intends that a requirement or responsibility 
be fulfilled by the engagement partner, the 
term “engagement partner” rather than 
“practitioner” is used. 
 
Practitioner (in 
the context of 
SLSRE 2400 
(Revised)) 
[No correspondence] A professional accountant in public practice. 
The term includes the engagement partner or 
other members of the engagement team, or, 
as applicable, the firm. Where SLSRE 2400 
(Revised) expressly intends that a 
requirement or responsibility be fulfilled by 
the engagement partner, the term 
“engagement partner” rather than 
“practitioner” is used. “Engagement partner” 
and “firm” are to be read as referring to their 
public sector equivalents where relevant. 
 
Practitioner’s 
expert 
[No correspondence] An individual or organization possessing 
expertise in a field other than assurance, 
whose work in that field is used by the 
practitioner to assist the practitioner in 
obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence. 
A practitioner’s expert may be either a 
practitioner’s internal expert (who is a 
partner or staff, including temporary staff, 
of the practitioner’s firm or a network 
firm), or a practitioner’s external expert. 
 
Professional 
accountant 
An individual who is a member of an 
IFAC member body. 
 
An individual who is a member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri 
Lanka (CA Sri Lanka). 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
Professional 
judgment (in the 
context of 
SLSAE 3000 
(Revised) 
[No correspondence] The application of relevant training, 
knowledge and experience, within the 
context provided by assurance and ethical 
standards, in making informed decisions 
about the courses of action that are 
appropriate in the circumstances of the 
engagement. 
Professional 
judgment (in the 
context of 
SLSRE 2400 
(Revised)) 
[No correspondence] The application of relevant training, 
knowledge and experience, within the 
context provided by assurance, accounting 
and ethical standards, in making informed 
decisions about the courses of action that are 
appropriate in the circumstances of the 
review engagement. 
 
Professional 
skepticism (in 
the context of 
SLSAE 3000 
(Revised)) 
[No correspondence] An attitude that includes a questioning mind, 
being alert to conditions which may indicate 
possible misstatement, and a critical 
assessment of evidence. 
 
Professional 
standards 
International Standards on Auditing 
(SLAuSs) and relevant ethical 
requirements 
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards  (SLAuSs) 
and relevant ethical requirements 
 
Professional 
standards (in the 
context of 
SLSQC 1) 
Engagement Standards issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri 
Lanka (CA Sri Lanka), as defined in the 
CA Sri Lanka’s Preface t o the Sri Lanka 
Standards on Quality Control, Auditing, 
Review, Other Assurance and Related 
Services, and relevant ethical 
requirements. 
Engagement Standards issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri 
Lanka (CA Sri Lanka), as defined in the 
CA Sri Lanka’s Preface to the  Sri Lanka 
Quality Control, Auditing, Review, Other 
Assurance, and Related Services 
Pronouncements, and relevant ethical 
requirements. 
Relevant ethical 
requirements 
Ethical requirements to which the 
engagement team and engagement quality 
control reviewer are subject, which 
ordinarily comprise Parts A and B of the 
Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code) 
together with national requirements that 
are more restrictive. In the context of 
SLSRS 4410 (Revised), relevant ethical 
requirements are defined as the ethical 
requirements the engagement team is 
subject to when undertaking compilation 
engagements. These requirements 
ordinarily comprise Parts A and B of the 
International Ethics Standards Board for 
Accountants’ Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants (CA Sri Lanka 
Code) (excluding Section 290 , 
Ethical requirements to which the 
engagement team and engagement quality 
control reviewer are subject, which 
ordinarily comprise Parts A and B of the 
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants 
(CA Sri Lanka Code) together with national 
requirements that are more restrictive. In 
the context of SLSRE 2400 (Revised), 
relevant ethical requirements are defined 
as the ethical requirements the engagement 
team is subject to when undertaking 
review engagements. These requirements 
ordinarily comprise Parts A and B of the 
Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code), 
together with national requirements that 
are more restrictive. In the context of 
SLSRS 4410 (Revised), relevant ethical 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  13A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
Independence—Audit and Review 
Engagements, and Section 291, 
Independence—Other Assurance 
Engagements in Part B), together with 
national requirements that are more 
restrictive.  
 
requirements are defined as the ethical 
requirements the engagement team is 
subject to  when undertaking compilation 
engagements. These requirements 
ordinarily comprise Parts A and B of the 
Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code) 
(excluding Section 290 , Independence —
Audit and Review Engagements , and 
Section 291, Independence—Other 
Assurance Engagements  in Part B), 
together with national requirements that 
are more restrictive. 
 
Report on the 
description and 
design of 
controls at a 
service 
organization 
(referred to in 
SLSAE 3402  as 
a “type 1 
report”) (in the 
context of 
SLSAE 3402) 
[No correspondence] A report that comprises: 
 
(a) The service organization’s description 
of its system; 
 
(b) A written statement by the service 
organization that, in all material 
respects, and based on suitable criteria: 
 
(i) The description fairly presents the 
service organization’s system as 
designed and implemented as at the 
specified date;  
 
(ii) The controls related to the control 
objectives stated in the service 
organization’s description of its 
system were suitably designed as at 
the specified date; and  
 
A service auditor’s assurance report that 
conveys a reasonable assurance conclusion 
about the matters in (b)(i)–(ii) above 
* SLAuS 402, Audit Considerations 
Relating to an Entity Using a Service 
Organization 
 
Report on the 
description, 
design and 
operating 
effectiveness of 
controls at a 
service 
organization 
(referred to in 
[No correspondence] A report that comprises: 
 
(a) The service organization’s description 
of its system; 
 
(b) A written statement by the service 
organization that, in all material 
respects, and based on suitable criteria:  
 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
SLSAE 3402 as 
a “type 2 
report”)(in the 
context of 
SLSAE 3402) 
(i) The description fairly presents the 
service organization’s system as 
designed and implemented 
throughout the specified period;  
 
(ii) The controls related to the control 
objectives stated in the service 
organization’s description of its 
system were suitably designed 
throughout the specified period; and 
 
(iii)  The controls related to 
the control objectives stated in the 
service organization’s description of 
its system operated effectively 
throughout the specified period; and 
 
(c) A service auditor’s assurance report 
that: 
 
(i) Conveys a reasonable assurance 
conclusion about the matters in 
(b)(i)–(iii) above; and 
 
(ii) Includes a description of the tests of 
controls and the results thereof. 
 
Responsible 
party 
The person (or persons) who:  
 
(a)  In a direct reporting engagement, is 
responsible for the subject matter; or  
 
(b)  In an assertion -based engagement, is 
responsible for the subject matter 
information (the assertion), and may 
be responsible for the subject matter.  
 
The responsible party m ay or may not be 
the party who engages the practitioner 
(the engaging party).  
 
The party(ies) responsible for the 
underlying subject matter. 
 
Risk of material 
misstatement (in 
the context of 
SLSAE 3000 
(Revised)) 
 
[No correspondence] The risk that the subject matter 
information is materially misstated prior to 
the engagement. 
 
Service auditor 
(in the context 
of SLSAE 3402) 
[No correspondence] A practitioner who, at the request of the 
service organization, provides an assurance 
report on controls of a service 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  15A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
organization.  
 
Service 
organization (in 
the context of 
SLSAE 3402) 
[No correspondence] A third-party organization (or segment of a 
third-party organization) that provides 
services to user entities that are likely to be 
relevant to user entities’ internal control as 
it relates to financial reporting.  
 
Service 
organization’s 
statement 
[No correspondence] The written statement about the matters 
referred to in (b) of the definition of a report 
on the description, design and operating 
effectiveness of controls at a service 
organization (in the case of a type 2 report) 
or (b) of the definition of  a report on the 
description and design of controls at a 
service organization (in the case of a type 1 
report). 
 
Service 
organization’s 
system (or the 
system)(in the 
context of 
SLSAE 3402) 
[No correspondence] The policies and procedures designed and 
implemented by the service organization to 
provide user entities  with the services 
covered by the service auditor’s assurance 
report. The service organization’s 
description of its system includes 
identification of: the services covered; the 
period, or in the case of a type 1 report, the 
date, to which the description relates;  
control objectives; and related controls. 
 
Sri Lanka 
Accounting 
Standards 
[No correspondence] The Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 
issued by the  Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka. 
 
Subject matter 
information 
The outcome of the evaluation or 
measurement of a subject matter. It is the 
subject matter information about which 
the practitioner gathers sufficient 
appropriate evidence to provide a 
reasonable basis for expressing a 
conclusion in an assurance report.  
 
The outcome of the measurement or 
evaluation of the underlying subject matter 
against the criteria, that is, the information 
that results from applying the criteria to the 
underlying subject matter.  
Subservice 
organization (in 
the context of 
SLSAE 3402) 
[No correspondence] A service organization used by another 
service organization to perform some of 
the services provided to user entities that 
are likely to be relevant to user entities’ 
internal control as it relates to financial 
reporting. 
 
Test of controls 
(in the context 
[No correspondence] A procedure designed to evaluate the 
operating effectiveness of controls in 

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
of SLSAE 3402) achieving the control objectives stated in 
the service organization’s description of its 
system. 
 
Underlying 
subject matter 
[No correspondence] The phenomenon that is measured or 
evaluated by applying criteria. 
 
User auditor [No correspondence] An auditor who audits and reports on the 
financial statements of a user entity.  
 
User entity (in 
the context of 
SLSAE 3402) 
 
[No correspondence] An entity that uses a service organization. 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 200  (SLAuS 200 - OVERALL OBJECTIVES OF 
THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR AND THE CONDUCT OF AN AUDIT IN 
ACCORDANCE WITH SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARDS)  
5 …However, reasonable assurance is 
not an absolute level of assurance, 
because there are inherent limitations 
of an audit which result in most of the 
audit evidence on which the auditor 
draws conclusions and bases the 
auditor’s opinion being persuasive 
rathe r than conclusive. (Ref: Para. 
A28-A52) 
 
……..  However, reasonable assurance 
is not an absolute level of assurance, 
because there are inherent limitations 
of an audit which result in most of the 
audit evidence on which the auditor 
draws conclusions and bas es the 
auditor’s opinion being persuasive 
rather than conclusive. (Ref: Para. 
A30–A54) 
13 (f)  Financial statements – A structured 
representation of historical financial 
information, including related notes , 
intended to communicate an entity’s 
economic res ources or obligations at 
a point in time or the changes therein 
for a period of time in accordance 
with a financial reporting framework. 
The related notes ordinarily comprise 
a summary of significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory 
information . T he term “financial 
statements” ordinarily refers to a 
complete set of financial statements 
as determined by the requirements of 
the applicable financial reporting 
framework, but can also refer to a 
single financial statement.  
Financial statements – A structured 
representation of historical financial 
information, including disclosures , 
intended to communicate an entity’s 
economic resources or obligations at a 
point in time, or the changes therein 
for a period of time, in accorda nce 
with a financial reporting framework. 
The term “financial statements” 
ordinarily refers to a complete set of 
financial statements as determined by 
the requirements of the applicable 
financial reporting framework, but can 
also refer to a single financia l 
statement. Disclosures comprise 
explanatory or descriptive information, 
set out as required, expressly permitted 
or otherwise allowed by the applicable 
financial reporting framework, on the 
face of a financial statement, or in the 
notes, or incorporated therein by cross -
reference.  (Ref: Para. A14‒A15)  
 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  17A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
14 The auditor shall comply with 
relevant ethical requirements, 
including those pertaining to 
independence, relating to financial 
statement audit engagements. (Ref: 
Para. A14-A17) 
 
The auditor shall comply with relevant 
ethical requirements, including those 
pertaining to independence, relating to 
financial  statement audit engagements. 
(Ref: Para. A16–A19) 
 
15 The auditor shall plan and perform an 
audit with professional skepticism 
recognizing that circumstances may 
exist that cause the financial 
statements to  be materially misstated. 
(Ref: Para. A18-A22) 
The auditor shall plan and perform an 
audit with professional skepticism 
recognizing that circumstances may 
exist that cause the financial 
statements to be materially misstated. 
(Ref: Para. A20–A24) 
 
16 The auditor shall exercise 
professional judgment in planning 
and performing an audit of financial 
statements. (Ref: Para. A23-A27) 
The auditor shall exercise professional 
judgment in planning and performing 
an audit of financial statements. (Ref: 
Para. A25–A29) 
 
17 To obtain reasonable assurance, the 
audit or shall obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence to reduce 
audit risk to an acceptably low level 
and thereby enable the auditor to 
draw reasonable conclusions on 
which to base the auditor’s opinion. 
(Ref: Para. A28-A52) 
 
To obtain reasonable assurance, the 
auditor shall obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence to reduce 
audit risk to an acceptably low level 
and thereby enable the auditor to draw 
reasonable conclusions on which to 
base the auditor’s opinion. (Ref: Para.  
A30–A54) 
18 The auditor shall comply with all 
SLAuSs relevant to the audit. A 
SLAuS is relevant to the audit when 
the SLAuS is in effect and the 
circumstances addressed by the 
SLAuS exist. (Ref: Para. A53-A57) 
The auditor shall comply with all 
SLAuSs relevant to the audit. An 
SLAuS is relevant to the audit when 
the SLAuS is in effect and the 
circumstances addressed by the SLAuS 
exist. (Ref: Para. A55–A59) 
 
19 The auditor shall have an 
understanding of the entire text of a 
SLAuS, including its application and 
other explanatory material, to 
understand its objectives and to apply 
its requirements properly. (Ref: Para. 
A58-A66) 
The auditor shall have an 
understandi ng of the entire text of an 
SLAuS, including its application and 
other explanatory material, to 
understand its objectives and to apply 
its requirements properly. (Ref: Para. 
A60–A68) 
 
21 To achieve the overall objectives of 
the auditor, the auditor shall use the 
objectives stated in relevant SLAuSs 
in planning and performing the audit, 
having regard to the interrelationships 
among the SLAuSs, to: (Ref: Para. 
A67-A69) 
To achieve the overall objectives of the 
auditor, the auditor shall use the 
objectives stated in relevant SLAuSs in 
planning and performing the audit , 
having regard to the interrelationships 
among the SLAuSs, to:  (Ref: Para. 
A69–A71)  

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 
(a) Determine whether any audit 
procedures in addition to those 
required by the SLAuSs are 
necessary in pursuance of the 
objectives stated in the SLAuSs; 
and (Ref: Para. A70 ) 
 
(b) Evaluate whether sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence has 
been obtained. (Ref: Para . A71 ) 
 
 
(a) Determine whether any audit 
procedures in addition to those 
required by the SLAuSs are 
necessary in pursuance of the 
objectives stated in the SLAuSs; 
and (Ref: Para. A72)  
 
(b) Evaluate whether sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence has 
been obtained. (Ref: Para. A73)  
 
22 (b)  The requirement is not relevant 
because it is conditional and the 
condition does not exist. (Ref: Para. 
A72-A73) 
 
The requirement is not relevant 
because it is conditional and the 
condition does not exist. (Ref: Para. 
A74–A75) 
23 In exceptional circumstances, the 
auditor may judge it necessary to 
depart from a relevant requirement in 
a SLAuS. In such circumstances, t he 
auditor shall perform alternative audit 
procedures to achieve the aim of that 
requirement. The need for the auditor 
to depart from a relevant requirement 
is expected to arise only where the 
requirement is for a specific 
procedure to be performed and, in  the 
specific circumstances of the audit, 
that procedure would be ineffective in 
achieving the aim of the requirement. 
(Ref: Para. A74) 
 
In exceptional circumstances, the 
auditor may judge it necessary to 
depart from a relevant requirement in 
an SLAuS. In such circumstances, the 
auditor shall perform alternative audit 
procedures to achieve the aim of that 
requirement. The need for the auditor 
to depart from a relevant requirement 
is expected to arise only where the 
requirement is for a specific procedure 
to be performed and, in the specific 
circumstances of the audit, that 
procedure would be ineffective in 
achieving the aim of the requirement. 
(Ref: Para. A76) 
 
 If an objective in a relevant SLAuS 
cannot be achieved, the auditor shall 
evaluate whether this prevents the 
auditor from achieving the overall 
objectives of the auditor and thereby 
requires the auditor, in accordance 
with the SLAuSs, to modify the 
auditor’s opinion or withdraw from 
the engagement (where withdrawal is 
possible under applicable law or  
regulation). Failure to achieve an 
objective represents a significant 
matter requiring documentation in 
accordance with SLAuS 230. (Ref: 
Para. A75-A76) 
 
If an objective in a relevant SLAuS  
cannot be achieved, the auditor shall 
evaluate whether this prevents the 
auditor from achieving the overall 
objectives of the auditor and thereby 
requires the auditor, in accordance 
with the SLAuSs, to modify the 
auditor’s opinion or withdraw from the 
engagement (where withdrawal is 
possible under applicable law or 
regulation). Failure to achieve an 
objective represents a significant 
matter requiring documentation in 
accordance with SLAuS 230. (Ref: 
Para. A77–A78) 
 
A8 For example, the International Public For example, the primary financial 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  19A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
Sector Accounting Standard (IPSAS), 
Financial Reporting Under the Cash 
Basis of Accounting , issued by the 
International Public Sector 
Accounting Standards Board states 
that the primary financial statement is 
a statemen t of cash receipts and 
payments when a public sector entity 
prepares its financial statements in 
accordance with that IPSAS.  
 
statement is a statement of cash 
receipts and payments when a public 
sector entity prepares its financial 
statements in accordance with cash 
basis of accounting.  
Heading  [No Correspondence]  Definitions  
 
Sub-heading  [No Correspondence]  Financial Statements  (Ref: Para. 13(f))   
 
A14 [No Correspondence]  Some financial reporting frameworks 
may refer to an entity’s economic 
resources or obligations in other terms. 
For example, these may be referred to 
as the entity’s assets and liabilities, 
and the residual difference between 
them may be referred to as equi ty or 
equity interests.   
 
A15 [No Correspondence]  Explanatory or descriptive information 
required to be included in the financial 
statements by the applicable financial 
reporting framework may be 
incorporated therein by cross -reference 
to information in another document, 
such as a management report or a risk 
report. “Incorporated therein by cross -
reference” means cross -referenced 
from the financial statements to the 
other document, but not from the other 
document to the financial statements. 
Where the app licable financial 
reporting framework does not 
expressly prohibit the cross -
referencing of where explanatory or 
descriptive information may be found, 
and the information has been 
appropriately cross -referenced, the 
information will form part of the 
financi al statements.  
 
2014 - A50
  
2017 – A52 
In light of the approaches described 
in paragraph A49, the SLAuSs 
contain requirements for the planning 
and performance of the audit and 
In light of the approaches described in 
paragraph A51, the SLAuSs contain 
requirements for the planning and 
performance of the audit and require 

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
require the auditor, among other 
things, to:  
the auditor, among other things, to:  
 
2014 – A69
  
2017 – A71 
In using the objectives, the auditor is 
required to have regard to the 
interrelationships among the SLAuSs. 
This is because, as indicated in 
paragraph A53, the SLAuSs deal in 
some cases with general 
responsibilities and in others with the 
application of th ose responsibilities to 
specific topics  
In using the objectives, the auditor is 
required to have regard to the 
interrelationships among the SLAuSs. 
This is because, as indicated in 
paragraph A55, the SLAuSs  deal in 
some cases with general 
responsibilities and in others with the 
application of those responsibilities to 
specific topics.  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 210  (SLAuS 210 - AGREEING THE TERMS OF 
AUDIT ENGAGEMENTS)  
6 (b)  Obtain the agreement of management 
that it acknowledges and understands 
its responsibility: (Ref: Para. A11 -
A14, A20) 
 
Obtain the agreement of management 
that it acknowledges and understands 
its responsibility: (Ref: Para. A11 –
A14, A21) 
9 The auditor shall agree the terms of 
the audit engagement with 
management or those charged with 
governance, as appropriate. (Ref: 
Para.  A21) 
 
The auditor shall agree the terms of the 
audit engagement with management or 
those charged with governance, as 
appropriate. (Ref: Para. A22) 
10 Subject to paragraph 11, the agreed 
terms of the audit engagement shall 
be recorded in an audit engageme nt 
letter or other suitable form of written 
agreement and shall include: (Ref: 
Para. A22-A25) 
Subject to paragraph 11, the agreed 
terms of the audit engagement shall be 
recorded in an audit engagement letter 
or other suitable form of written 
agreement and shall include: (Ref: 
Para. A23–A27) 
 
10 (e)  Reference to the expected form and 
content of any reports to be issued by 
the auditor and a statement that there 
may be circumstances in which a 
report may differ from its expected 
form and content.  
 
Reference to the expected form and 
content of any report s to be issued by 
the auditor; and (Ref: Para. A24)  
 
10 (f)  [No Correspondence]  A statement that there may be 
circumstances in which a report may 
differ from its expected form and 
content.  
 
11 If law or regulation prescribes in 
sufficient detail the terms of the audit 
engagement referred to in paragraph 
10, the auditor need not record them 
If law or regulation prescribes in 
sufficient detail the terms of the audit 
engagement referred to in paragraph 
10, the auditor need not record them in 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  21A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
in a written agreement, except for the 
fact that such law or regulation 
applies and that management 
acknowl edges and understands its 
responsibilities as set out in 
paragraph 6(b). (Ref: Para. A22, A26 -
A27) 
 
a written agreement, except for the fact 
that such law or regulation applies and 
that management acknowl edges and 
understands its responsibilities as set 
out in paragraph 6(b). (Ref: Para. A23, 
A28–A29) 
 
12 If law or regulation prescribes 
responsibilities of management 
similar to those described in 
paragraph 6(b), the auditor may 
determine that the law or regulation 
includes responsibilities that, in the 
auditor’s judgment, are  equivalent in 
effect to those set out in that 
paragraph. For such responsibilities 
that are equivalent, the auditor may 
use the wording of the law or 
regulation to describe them in the 
written agreement. For those 
responsibilities that are not prescribed 
by law or regulation such that their 
effect is equivalent, the written 
agreement shall use the description in 
paragraph 6(b). (Ref: Para. A26) 
If law or regulation prescribes 
responsibilities of management similar 
to those described in paragraph 6(b), 
the auditor may determine that the law 
or regulation includes responsibilities 
that, in the auditor’s judgment, are  
equivalent in effect to those set out in 
that paragraph. For such 
responsibilities that are equivalent, the 
auditor may use the wording of the law 
or regulation to describe t hem in the 
written agreement. For those 
responsibilities that are not prescribed 
by law or regulation such that their 
effect is equivalent, the written 
agreement shall use the description in 
paragraph 6(b). (Ref: Para. A28) 
 
13 On recurring audits, the au ditor shall 
assess whether circumstances require 
the terms of the audit engagement to 
be revised and whether there is a need 
to remind the entity of the existing 
terms of the audit engagement. (Ref: 
Para. A28) 
 
On recurring audits, the auditor shall 
assess  whether circumstances require 
the terms of the audit engagement to be 
revised and whether there is a need to 
remind the entity of the existing terms 
of the audit engagement. (Ref: Para. 
A30) 
 
14 The auditor shall not agree to a 
change in the terms of the audit 
engagement where there is no 
reasonable justification for doing so. 
(Ref: Para. A29-A31) 
 
The auditor shall not agree to a change 
in the terms of the audit engagement 
where there is no reaso nable 
justification for doing so. (Ref: Para. 
A31–A33) 
 
15 If, prior to completing the audit 
engagement, the auditor is requested 
to change the audit engagement to an 
engagement that conveys a lower 
level of assurance, the auditor shall 
determine whether there is reasonable 
justification for doing so. (Ref: Para. 
A32-A33) 
If, prior to completing the audit 
engagement, the auditor is requested to 
change the audit engagement to an 
engagement that conveys a lower level 
of assurance, the auditor shall 
determine whether there is reasonable 
justification for doing so. (Re f: Para. 
A34–A35) 

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 
18 If neither of the above actions is 
possible, the auditor shall determine 
whether it will be necessary to 
modify the auditor’s opinion in 
accordance with SLAuS  705. (Ref: 
Para. A34) 
 
If neither of the above actions is 
possible, the au ditor shall determine 
whether it will be necessary to modify 
the auditor’s opinion in accordance 
with SLAuS 705.  (Ref: Para. A36) 
 
21 If the auditor concludes that 
additional explanation in the auditor’s 
report cannot mitigate possible 
misunderstanding, the auditor shall 
not accept the audit engagement, 
unless required by law or regulation 
to do so. An audit conducted in 
accordance with such law or 
regulation does not comply with 
SLAuSs . Accordingly, the auditor 
shall not include any reference within 
the auditor’s report to the audit 
having been conducted in accordance 
with SLAuSs . (Ref: Para. A36-A37) 
 
If the auditor concludes that additional 
explanation in the auditor’s report 
cannot mitigate possible 
misunderstanding, the auditor shall not 
accept the audit engagement, unless 
required by law or regulation to do so. 
An audit conducted in accordance with 
such law or regulation does not comply 
with SLAuSs. Accordingly, the auditor 
shall not include any reference within 
the auditor’s report to the audit having 
been conducted in accordance with 
SLAuSs. (Ref: Para. A38–A39) 
 
A11 An audit in accordance with SLAuSs  
is conducted on the premise that 
management has acknowledged and 
understands that it has the 
responsibilities set out in paragraph 
6(b).* In certain jurisdictions, such 
responsibilities may be specified in 
law or regulati on. In others, there 
may be little or no legal or regulatory 
definition of such responsibilities. 
SLAuSs  do not override law or 
regulation in such matters. However, 
the concept of an independent audit 
requires that the auditor’s role does 
not involve takin g responsibility for 
the preparation of the financial 
statements or for the entity’s related 
internal control, and that the auditor 
has a reasonable expectation of 
obtaining the information necessary 
for the audit in so far as management 
is able to provide  or procure it. 
Accordingly, the premise is 
fundamental to the conduct of an 
independent audit. To avoid 
misunderstanding, agreement is 
reached with management that it 
An audit in accordance with SLAuSs  is 
conducted on the premise that 
management has acknowledged and 
understands that it has the 
responsibilities set out in paragraph 
6(b).** In certain jurisdictions, such 
responsibilities may be specified in 
law or regulation. In others, there may 
be littl e or no legal or regulatory 
definition of such responsibilities. 
SLAuSs do not override law or 
regulation in such matters. However, 
the concept of an independent audit 
requires that the auditor’s role does not 
involve taking responsibility for the 
preparat ion of the financial statements 
or for the entity’s related internal 
control, and that the auditor has a 
reasonable expectation of obtaining the 
information necessary for the audit 
(including information obtained from 
outside of the general and subsidiary 
ledgers)  in so far as management is 
able to provide or procure it. 
Accordingly, the premise is 
fundamental to the conduct of an 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  23A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
acknowledges and understands that it 
has such responsibilities as part of 
agreeing and r ecording the terms of 
the audit engagement in paragraphs 9 -
12. 
* SLAuS  200, paragraph A2 . 
 
independent audit. To avoid 
misunderstanding, agreement is 
reached with management that it 
acknowledges and understands that it 
has such responsibilities as part of 
agreeing and recording the terms of the 
audit engagement in paragraphs 9 –12. 
** SLAuS 200, paragraph A4  
Sub Heading  [No Correspondence]  Additional Information (Ref: Para. 
6(b)(iii)b)  
 
2014 – No 
corresponding 
para.  
2017 – A20 
[No Correspondence]  
 
Additional information that the auditor 
may request from management for the 
purpose of the audit may include when 
applicable, matters related to other 
information in accordance with SLAuS 
720 (Revised). When the auditor 
expects to obtain other information 
after the date of the auditor’s report, 
the terms of the audit engagement may 
also acknowledge the auditor’s 
responsibilities relating to such other 
information including, if applicable, 
the actions that may be appropriate or 
necessary if the auditor concl udes that 
a material misstatement of the other 
information exists in other information 
obtained after the date of the auditor’s 
report.  
 
2014 – No 
corresponding 
para.  
2017 – A24 
[No correspondence]  … 
 
• The requirement for the auditor to 
communicate key audit matters in 
the auditor’s report in accordance 
with SLAuS 701. *  
… 
• The expectation that management 
will provide access to all 
information of which management 
is aware that is relevant to the 
preparati on of the financial 
statements, including an 
expectation that management will 
provide access to information 
relevant to disclosures.  
  
• The agreement of management to 

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
make available to the auditor draft 
financial statements, including all 
information releva nt to their 
preparation, whether obtained from 
within or outside of the general and 
subsidiary ledgers (including all 
information relevant to the 
preparation of disclosures), and the 
other information,** if any, in time 
to allow the auditor to complete the  
audit in accordance with the 
proposed timetable.  
… 
* SLAuS  701, Communicating Key 
Audit Matters in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report  
** As defined in SLAuS  720 
(Revised), The Auditor’s 
Responsibilities Relating to Other 
Information  
 
2014 – No 
corresponding 
para.  
2017 – A25 
[No Correspondence]  When the auditor is not required to 
communicate key audit matters, it may 
be helpful for the auditor to make 
reference in the terms of the audit 
engagement to the possibility of 
communicating key audit mat ters in 
the auditor’s report and, in certain 
jurisdictions, it may be necessary for 
the auditor to include a reference to 
such possibility in order to retain the 
ability to do so.  
 
2014 – A26 
2017 – A28 
If, in the circumstances described in 
paragraphs A22 and A27 , the auditor 
concludes that it is not necessary to 
record certain terms of the audit 
engagement in an audit engagement 
letter, the auditor is still required by 
paragraph 11 to seek the written 
agreement from management that it 
acknowledges and understands that it 
has the responsibilities set out in 
paragraph 6(b). However, in 
accordance with paragraph 12, such 
written agreement may use the 
wording of the law or regulation if 
such law or regulation  establishes 
If, in the circumstances described in 
paragraphs A23 and A29 , the auditor 
concludes that it is not necessary to 
record certain terms of the audit 
engagement in an audit engagement 
letter, the auditor is still required by 
paragraph 11 to seek the written 
agreement  from management that it 
acknowledges and understands that it 
has the responsibilities set out in 
paragraph 6(b). However, in 
accordance with paragraph 12, such 
written agreement may use the 
wording of the law or regulation if 
such law or regulation establishes 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  25A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
responsibilities for management that 
are equivalent in effect to those 
described in paragraph 6(b). The 
accounting profession, audit 
standards setter, or audit regulator in 
a jurisdiction may have provided 
guidance as to whether the 
descriptio n in law or regulation is 
equivalent.  
 
responsibilities for management that 
are equivalent in effect to those 
described in paragraph 6(b). The 
accounting profession, audit standards 
setter, or audit regulator in a 
jurisdiction may have  provided 
guidance as to whether the description 
in law or regulation is equivalent.  
 
2014 – A32 
2017 – A34 
Before agreeing to change an audit 
engagement to a review or a related 
service, an auditor who was engaged 
to perform an audit in accordance 
with SLAuSs  may need to assess, in 
addition to the matters referred to in 
paragraphs A29 -A31 above, any legal 
or co ntractual implications of the 
change.  
 
Before agreeing to change an audit 
engagement to a review or a related 
service, an auditor who was engaged to 
perform an audit in accordance with 
SLAuSs may need to assess, in 
addition to the matters referred to in 
paragraphs A31 –A33 above, any legal 
or contractual implications of the 
change.  
 
Appendix 1  (Ref: Para. A23 –24) 
 
Example of an Audit Engagement 
Letter  
 
The following is an example of an 
audit engagement letter for an audit 
of general purpose financial 
statements prepared in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
This letter is not authoritative but is 
intended only to be a guide that may 
be used in conjunction with the 
considerations outlined in this 
SLAuS. It will need to be varied 
according to individual requirements 
and circumstances. It is drafted to 
refer to the audit of financial 
statements for a single reporting 
period and would require ada ptation 
if intended or expected to apply to 
recurring audits (see paragraph 13 of 
this SLAuS ). It may be appropriate to 
seek legal advice that any proposed 
letter is suitable.  
*** 
 
To the appropriate representative of 
management or those charged with 
(Ref: Para. A24 –A26)  
 
Example of an Audit Engagement 
Letter  
 
The following is an example of an 
audit engagement letter for an audit of 
general purpose financial statements 
prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards. This letter is 
not authoritative but is intended only 
to be a guide that may be used in 
conjunction with the considerations 
outlined in this SLAuS. It will need to 
be varied according to individual 
requirements and circumstances. It is 
drafted to refer to the audit of financial 
statements for a single reporting period 
and would require ada ptation if 
intended or expected to apply to 
recurring audits (see paragraph 13). It 
may be appropriate to seek legal 
advice that any proposed letter is 
suitable.  
*** 
 
 
 
To the appropriate representative of 

<!-- page 26 -->

26A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
gover nance of ABC Company*  
 
[The objective and scope of the audit]  
 
You  have requested that we audit the 
financial statements of ABC 
Company, which comprise the 
balance sheet as at December 31, 
20X1, and the income statement, 
statement of changes in equity and 
cash flow statement for the year then 
ended, and a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other 
explanatory information. We are 
pleased to confirm our acceptance 
and our understanding of this audit 
engagement by means of this letter. 
Our audit will be conducted with the 
objective of our expressing an 
opinion on the financial statements.  
 
[The responsibilities of the auditor]  
 
We will conduct our audit in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards (SLAuSs). Those standards 
require that w e comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free from material 
misstatement. An audit involves 
performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial 
statements. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgment, 
including the assessment of the risks 
of material misstatement of the 
financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error. An audit also includes 
evaluat ing the appropriateness of 
accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting 
estimates made by management, as 
well as evaluating the overall 
presentation of the financial 
statements.  
 
Because of the inherent limitations of 
management or those charged with 
governance of ABC Company**:  
 
[The objective and scope of the audit]  
 
You  have requested that we audit the 
financial statements of ABC Company, 
which comprise the statement of 
financia l position as at December 31, 
20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of 
cash flows for the year then ended, and 
notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant 
accounting policies . We are pleased to 
confirm our acceptance and our 
understanding of this audit engagement 
by means of this letter.  
 
The objectives of our audit are to 
obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a 
whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs)  
will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of 
users taken o n the basis of these 
financial statements.  
  
[The responsibilities of the auditor]  
 
We will conduct our audit in 
accordance with SLAuSs. Those 
standards require that we comply with 
ethical requirements. As part of an 
audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we 
exercise professional judgment and 
maintain professional skepticism 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  27A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
an audit, together wi th the inherent 
limitations of internal control, there is 
an unavoidable risk that some 
material misstatements may not be 
detected, even though the audit is 
properly planned and performed in 
accordance with SLAuSs.  
 
In making our risk assessments, we 
consi der internal control relevant to 
the entity’s preparation of the 
financial statements in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances, but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion on 
the effectiveness of the entity’s 
inter nal control. However, we will 
communicate to you in writing 
concerning any significant 
deficiencies in internal control 
relevant to the audit of the financial 
statements that we have identified 
during the audit . 
 
[The responsibilities of management 
and ide ntification of the applicable 
financial reporting framework (for 
purposes of this example it is 
assumed that the auditor has not 
determined that the law or regulation 
prescribes those responsibilities in 
appropriate terms; the descriptions in 
paragraph 6(b ) of this SLAuS are 
therefore used).]  
 
Our audit will be conducted on the 
basis that [management and, where 
appropriate, those charged with 
governance]  acknowledge and 
understand that they have 
responsibility:  
 
(a)  For the preparation and fair 
presentati on of the financial 
statements in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards;  
 
(b)  For such internal control as 
[management] determines is 
necessary to enable the 
throughout the audit. We also:  
 
• Identify and assess the risks of 
material misstatement of the 
financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures 
respons ive to those risks, and 
obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.  
 
• Obtain an understanding of internal 
control relevant to the audit in 
order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the entity’s 
internal control.   However, we 
will communicate to you in writing 
concerning any significant 
deficiencies in internal control 
relevant to the audit of the 
financial statements that we have 
identified during the audit.  
 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of 
accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures 
made by management.  
 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of 
management’s use of the going 
concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the 
Company’s a bility to continue as a 
going concern. If we conclude that 

<!-- page 28 -->

28A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
preparation of financial 
statements that are free from 
material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error; and  
 
(c)  To provide us with:  
 
(i)  Access to all information of 
which [management] is aware that 
is relevant to the preparation of 
the financial statements such as 
records, documentation and other 
matters;  
 
(ii)  Additional information that we 
may request from [management] 
for the purpose of the audit; and  
 
(iii)  Unrestricted access to 
persons within the entity from 
whom we determine it necessary 
to obtain audit evidence.  
 
As part of our audit process, we will 
request from [ management and, 
where appropriate, those charged with 
governance], written confirmation 
concerning representations made to 
us in connection with the audit.  
 
We look forward to full cooperation 
from your staff during our audit.  
 
[Other relevant information]  
 
[Insert other information, such as fee 
arrangements, billings and other 
specific terms, as appropriate.]  
 
[Reporting]  
 
[Insert appropriate reference to the 
expected form and content of the 
auditor’s report.]  
 
The form and content of our report 
may need t o be amended in the light 
of our audit findings.  
 
Please sign and return the attached 
a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in 
our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial 
statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our  
opinion. Our conclusions are based 
on the audit evidence obtained up 
to the date of our auditor’s report. 
However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company 
to cease to continue as a going 
concern.  
 
• Evaluate the overall presentation, 
structure and content of the 
financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the 
financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events 
in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation.  
 
Because of the inherent limitations of 
an audi t, together with the inherent 
limitations of internal control, there is 
an unavoidable risk that some material 
misstatements may not be detected, 
even though the audit is properly 
planned and performed in accordance 
with SLAuSs.  
 
[The responsibilities of m anagement 
and identification of the applicable 
financial reporting framework (for 
purposes of this example it is assumed 
that the auditor has not determined that 
the law or regulation prescribes those 
responsibilities in appropriate terms; 
the descriptions  in paragraph 6(b) of 
this SLAuS are therefore used).]  
 
Our audit will be conducted on the 
basis that [management and, where 
appropriate, those charged with 
governance]  acknowledge and 
understand that they have 
responsibility:  
 
(a) For the preparation and fai r 

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  29A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
copy of this letter to indicate your 
acknowledgement of, and agreement 
with, the arrangements for our audit 
of the financial statements including 
our respective responsib ilities.  
 
 
XYZ & Co.  
 
 
Acknowledged and agreed on behalf 
of ABC Company by  
 
(signed)  
......................  
Name and Title  
Date 
 
presentation of the financial 
statements in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards;  
  
(b) For such internal control as 
[management] determines is 
necessary to enable the preparation 
of financial statements that are free 
from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error; and  
 
(c) To provide us with***:  
 
(i) Access to all information of which 
[management] is aware that is 
relevant to the preparation of the 
financial statements such as 
records, documentation and other 
matters;  
 
(ii) Additional information that we 
may request from [management] 
for the purpose of the audit; and  
 
(iii)  Unrestricted access to persons 
within the entity from whom we 
determine it necessary to obtain 
audit evidence.  
 
As part of our audit process, we will 
request from [management and, where 
appropriate, those charged with 
governance], written confirmation 
concerning representations made to us 
in connection with the audit.  
 
We look forward to full cooperation 
from your staff during our audit.  
 
[Other relevant in formation]  
 
[Insert other information, such as fee 
arrangements, billings and other 
specific terms, as appropriate.]  
 
[Reporting]  
 
[Insert appropriate reference to the 
expected form and content of the 
auditor’s report including, if 

<!-- page 30 -->

30A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
applicable, the reporting on other 
information in accordance with SLAuS 
720 (Revised).]  
 
The form and content of our report 
may need to be amended in the light of 
our audit findings.  
 
Please sign and return the attached 
copy of this letter to indicate your 
acknowledgement of, and agreement 
with, the arrangements for our audit of 
the financial statements including our 
respective responsibilities.  
 
XYZ & Co.  
 
Acknowledged and agreed on behalf of 
ABC Company by  
(signed)  
......................  
Name and Title  
Date 
 
Foot Notes  * The addressees and references in 
the letter would be those that are 
appropriate in the circumstances of 
the engagement, including the 
relevant jurisdiction. It is important to 
refer to the appropriate persons – see 
paragraph A21. 
 
 
** The addressees and references in 
the letter would be those that are 
appropriate in the circumstances of the 
engagement, including the relevant 
jurisdiction. It is important to refer to 
the appropriate persons – see 
paragraph A22. 
 
*** See paragraph A24 for examples 
of other matters relating to 
management’s responsibilities that may 
be included.  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 220  (SLAuS 220  - QUALITY CONTROL FOR AN 
AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ) 
7 (d)  Engagement team – All partners and 
staff performing the engagement, and 
any individuals engaged by the firm 
or a network firm who perform audit 
procedures on the engagement. This 
excludes an auditor’s external expert 
engaged by the firm or a network 
firm.  
Engagement team – All partners and 
staff performing the engagement, and 
any individuals engaged by the firm or 
a network firm who perform audit 
procedures on the engagement. This 
excludes an auditor’s external expert 
engaged by the firm or a network firm. 
The term “engagement team” also 
excludes individuals within the client’s 
internal audit function who provide 

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  31A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
direct assistance on an audit 
engagement when the external  auditor 
complies with the requirements of 
SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013). *  
* SLAuS  610 (Revised 2013), Using 
the Work of Internal Auditors, 
establishes limits on the use of 
direct assistance. It also 
acknowledges that the external 
auditor may be prohibited by law 
or regulation from obtaining direct 
assistance from internal auditors. 
Therefore, the use of direct 
assistance is restricted to situations 
where it is permitted.  
 
20 (d)  Evaluation of the conclusions reached 
in formulating the auditor’s report 
and consideration of whether the 
proposed auditor’s report is 
appropriate. ( Ref: Para. A26 -A27, 
A29-A31) 
 
Evaluation of the conclusions reached 
in formulating the auditor’s report and 
consideration of whether the proposed 
auditor’s report is appropriate. ( Ref: 
Para. A26 –A28, A30 –A32) 
 
21 (c)  Whether audit documentation 
selected for review reflects the work 
performed in relation to the 
significant judgments and supports 
the conclusions reached. ( Ref: Para. 
A28-A31) 
 
Whether audit documentation selected 
for review reflects the work performed 
in relation to the significant judgments 
and supports the conclusions reached. 
(Ref: Para. A29 –A32) 
 
23 An effective system of quality control 
includes a monitoring process 
designed to provide the firm with 
reasonable assurance that its policies 
and procedur es relating to the system 
of quality control are relevant, 
adequate, and operating effectively. 
The engagement partner shall 
consider the results of the firm’s 
monitoring process as evidenced in 
the latest information circulated by 
the firm and, if applica ble, other 
network firms and whether 
deficiencies noted in that information 
may affect the audit engagement. 
(Ref: Para A32 -A34) 
 
An effective system of quality control 
includes a monitoring process designed 
to provide the firm with reasonable 
assurance that its policies and 
procedures relating to the system of 
quality control are relevant, adequate, 
and operating effectively. The 
engagement partner shall consider the 
results of the firm’s monitoring process 
as evidenced in the latest informatio n 
circulated by the firm and, if 
applicable, other network firms and 
whether deficiencies noted in that 
information may affect the audit 
engagement. ( Ref: Para A33 –A35) 
24 (d)  The nature and scope of, and 
conclusions resulting from, 
The nature and scope of, and 
conclusions resulting from, 

<!-- page 32 -->

32A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
consultations undertak en during the 
course of the audit engagement. ( Ref: 
Para. A35 ) 
 
consultations undertaken during the 
course of the audit engagement. ( Ref: 
Para. A36 ) 
 
A10 An engagement team includes a 
person using expertise in a 
specialized area of accounting or 
auditing, whether engaged or 
employed by the firm, if any, who 
performs audit procedures on the 
engagement. However, a person with 
such expertise is not a member of  the 
engagement team if that person’s 
involvement with the engagement is 
only consultation. Consultations are 
addressed in paragraph  18, and 
paragraph A21 -A22. 
 
An engagement team includes a person 
using expertise in a specialized area of 
accounting or auditing, whether 
engaged or employed by the firm, if 
any, who performs audit procedures on 
the engagement. However, a person 
with such expertise is not a member of  
the engagement team if that person’s 
involvement with the engagement is 
only consultation. Consultations are 
addressed in paragraphs 18, A21 and 
A22 
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.   
2017 – A28 
[No Correspondence]  When SLAuS  701* applies, the 
conclusions reached by the 
engagement team in formulating the 
auditor’s report include determining:  
• The key audit matters to be 
included in the auditor’s report;  
• The key audit matters that will not 
be communicated in the auditor’s 
report in accordance with 
paragraph 14 of SLAuS 701, if 
any; and  
• If applicable, depending on the 
facts and circumstances of the 
entity and the audit, that there are 
no key audit matters to 
communicate in the auditor’s 
report.  
In addition, the review of the proposed 
auditor’s report in accordance with 
paragraph 20(b) includes consideration 
of the proposed wording to be included 
in the Key Audit Matters section.  
* SLAuS 701, Communicating Key 
Audit Matters in the Auditor’s 
Report  
2014 – A31 Listed entities as referred to in Listed entities as referred to in 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  33A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
2017 – A32 paragraphs 21 and A28 are not 
common in the public sector. 
However, there may be other public 
sector entities that are significant due 
to size, complexity or public interest 
aspects, and which consequently have 
a wide rang e of stakeholders. 
Examples include state owned 
corporations and public utilities. 
Ongoing transformations within the 
public sector may also give rise to 
new types of significant entities. 
There are no fixed objective criteria 
on which the determination of  
significance is based. Nonetheless, 
public sector auditors evaluate which 
entities may be of sufficient 
significance to warrant performance 
of an engagement quality control 
review.  
 
paragraphs 21 and A29 are not 
common in  the public sector. However, 
there may be other public sector 
entities that are significant due to size, 
complexity or public interest aspects, 
and which consequently have a wide 
range of stakeholders. Examples 
include state owned corporations and 
public u tilities. Ongoing 
transformations within the public 
sector may also give rise to new types 
of significant entities. There are no 
fixed objective criteria on which the 
determination of significance is based. 
Nonetheless, public sector auditors 
evaluate whic h entities may be of 
sufficient significance to warrant 
performance of an engagement quality 
control review.  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 230  (SLAuS 230  - AUDIT DOCUMENTATION ) 
A10 [No Correspondence]  • When SLAuS  701 applies,* the 
auditor’s determination of the key 
audit matters or the determination 
that there are no key audit matters 
to be communicated.  
* SLAuS 701, Communicating Key 
Audit Matters in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report  
 
Appendix 1  This appendix ide ntifies paragraphs 
in other SLAuSs  in effect for audits 
of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January 2014  
that contain specific documentation 
requirements. The list is not a 
substitute for considering the 
requirements and related application 
and other explanatory material in 
SLAuSs.  
 
…  
• SLAuS 260 , Communication with 
Those Charged with Governance 
– paragraph 23   
… 
• SLAuS 610 (Revised), Using the 
Work of Internal Auditors – 
This appendix identifies paragraphs in 
other SLAuSs that contain specific 
documentation requirements. The list 
is not a substitute for considering the 
requirements and  related application 
and other explanatory material in 
SLAuSs.  
 
… 
• SLAuS 260 (Revised) , 
Communication with Those 
Charged with Governance  – 
paragraph 23  
… 
• SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013 ), Using 
the Work of Internal Auditors  – 
paragraph 36 –37 
 

<!-- page 34 -->

34A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
paragraph 24  
 
• SLAuS  720 (Revised), The 
Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating 
to Other Information – paragraph 
25 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 240  (SLAuS 240  - THE AUDITOR'S 
RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO FRAUD IN AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS ) 
A4 Fraudulent financial reporting often 
involves management override of 
controls that otherwise may appear to 
be operating effectively. Fraud can be 
committed by management overriding 
controls using such techniques as: 
 
… 
• Concealing, or not disclosing, 
facts that could affect the 
amounts recorded in the financial 
statements.  
… 
Fraudulent financial reporting often 
involves management override of 
controls that otherwise may appear to 
be operating effectively. Fraud can be 
committed by management overriding 
contr ols using such techniques as 
intentionally : 
 
… 
• Omitting, obscuring or misstating 
disclosures required by the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework, or disclosures that are 
necessary to achieve fair 
presentation.  
• Concealing facts that could affect 
the amounts recorded in the 
financial statements.  
… 
 
A11 The discussion may include such 
matters as:  
 
• An exchange of ideas among 
engagement team members about 
how and where they believe the 
entity’s financial statements may 
be susceptible to material 
misstatement due to fraud, how 
management could perpetrate and 
conceal fraudulent financial 
reporting, and how assets of the 
entity could be misappropriated.  
 
• … 
 
The discussion may include such 
matters as:  
• An exchange of ideas among 
engagement team members about 
how and where they believe the 
entity’s financial statements 
(including the individual 
statements and the disclosures)  
may be susceptible to material 
misstatement due to fraud, how 
management could p erpetrate and 
conceal fraudulent financial 
reporting, and how assets of the 
entity could be misappropriated.  
• … 
• A consideration of the risk that 
management may attempt to 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  35A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
present disclosures in a manner 
that may obscure a proper 
understanding of the matters  
disclosed (for example, by 
including too much immaterial 
information or by using unclear or 
ambiguous language).  
… 
 
 
A18 
 
SLAuS  315 (Revised ) and SLAuS  
610 (Revised) establish requirements 
and provide guidance relevant to 
audits of those entities that have an 
internal audit function. In carrying 
out the requirements of those SLAuSs  
in the context of fraud, the auditor 
may inquire about specific activities 
of the function including , for 
example:  
 
• The pro cedures performed, if any, 
by the internal auditors  during the 
year to detect fraud.  
 
• Whether management has 
satisfactorily responded to any 
findings resulting from those 
procedures.  
 
 
SLAuS 315 (Revised) and SLAuS 610 
(Revised 2013 ) establish requirements 
and provide guidance relevant to audits 
of those entities that have an internal 
audit function. In carrying out the 
requirements of those SLAuSs in the 
context of fraud, the auditor may 
inquire about specific activities of the 
function including, for example:  
• The procedures performed, if any, 
by the internal auditor function 
during the year to detect fraud.  
• Whether management has 
satisfactorily responded to any 
findings resulting from those 
procedures.  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD  250 (SLAuS 250  - CONSIDERATION OF LAWS 
AND REGULATIONS IN AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ) 
 
No Changes  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 260  (SLA uS 260  - COMMUNICATION WITH 
THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE ) 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 260 ( Effective for audits of financial statements for 
periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014) is replaced by SRI LANKA AUDITING 
STANDARD 260 (REVISED) (Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning 
on or after 01 January, 2018)  
 
 
 

<!-- page 36 -->

36A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 265  (SLAuS 265  - COMMUNICATING 
DEFICIENCIES IN INTERNAL CONTROL TO THOSE CHARGED WITH 
GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT ) 
A15 … 
• The nature of the entity. For 
instance , the communication 
required for a public interest 
entity may be different from that 
for a non -public interest entity.  
• The size and complexity of the 
entity. For instance , the 
communication required for a 
complex entity may be different 
from that for an entity operating a 
simple business.  
• The nature of significant 
deficiencies that the auditor has 
identified.  
• The entity’s governance 
composition. For instance , more 
detail may be needed if those 
charged with governance include 
members who do not have 
significant experience in the 
entity’s industry or in th e affected 
areas.  
• …. 
… 
• The nature of the entity. For 
example , the communication 
required for a public interest entity 
may be different from that for a 
non-public interest entity.  
• The size and complexity of the 
entity. For example , the 
communication required for a 
complex entity may be different 
from that for an entity operating a 
simple business.  
• The nature of significant 
deficiencies that the auditor has 
identified.  
• The entity’s g overnance 
composition. For example , more 
detail may be needed if those 
charged with governance include 
members who do not have 
significant experience in the 
entity’s industry or in the affected 
areas.  
• …. 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 300  (SLAuS 300  - PLANN ING AN AUDIT OF 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ) 
1 Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 
(SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s 
responsibility to plan an audit of 
financial statements. This SLAuS  is 
written in the context of recurring 
audits. Additional considerations in 
an initial audit engagement are 
separately identified.  
This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 
(SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s 
responsibility to plan an audit of 
financial statements. T his SLAuS is 
written in the context of recurring 
audits. Additional considerations in an 
initial audit engagement are separately 
identified.  
 
9 (c)  Other planned audit procedures that 
are required to be carried out so that 
the engagement complies with 
SLAuSs. (Ref: Para. A12 ) 
Other planned audit procedures that are 
required to be carried out so that the 
engagement complies with SLAuSs. 
(Ref: Para. A12-A14) 
 

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  37A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
10 The auditor shall update and change 
the overall audit strategy and the 
audit plan as necessary during the 
course of the audit. (Ref: Para. A13 ) 
The auditor shall update and change 
the overall audit strategy and the audit 
plan as necessary during  the course of 
the audit. (Ref: Para. A15 ) 
 
11 The auditor shall plan the nature, 
timing and extent of direction and 
supervision of engagement team 
members and the review of their 
work. (Ref: Para. A14- A15) 
 
The auditor shall plan the nature, 
timing and extent of direction and 
supervision of engagement team 
members and the review of their work. 
(Ref: Para. A16–A17) 
 
12 (c)  Any significant changes made during 
the audit engagement to the overall 
audit strategy or the audit plan, and 
the reasons for such changes. (Ref: 
Para. A16-A19) 
 
Any significant changes made during 
the audit engagement to the overall 
audit strategy or the audit plan, and the 
reasons for such changes. (Ref: Para. 
A18–A21) 
13 Communicating with the predecessor 
auditor, where there has been a 
change of auditors, in c ompliance 
with relevant ethical requirements. 
(Ref: Para. A20) 
 
Communicating with the predecessor 
auditor, where there has been a change 
of auditors, in compliance with 
relevant ethical requirements. (Ref: 
Para. A22) 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A13 
[No Correspondence]  Determining the nature, timing and 
extent of planned risk assessment 
procedures, and the further audit 
procedures, as they relate to 
disclosures is important in light of both 
the wide range of information and the 
level of detail that may be 
encompassed in those disclosures. 
Further, certain disclosures may 
contain information that is obtained 
from outside of the general and 
subsidiary ledgers, which may also 
affect the assessed risks and the nature, 
timing and extent of audit procedures 
to address them.  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A14 
[No Correspondence]  Consideration of disclosures early in 
the audit assists the auditor in giving 
appropriate attention to, and planning 
adequate time for, addressing 
disclosures in the same way as classes 
of transa ctions, events and account 
balances. Early consideration may also 
help the auditor to determine the 
effects on the audit of:  

<!-- page 38 -->

38A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
• Significant new or revised 
disclosures required as a result of 
changes in the entity’s 
environment, financial condition or 
activities (for example, a change in 
the required identification of 
segments and reporting of segment 
information arising  from a 
significant business combination);  
• Significant new or revised 
disclosures arising from changes in 
the applicable financial reporting 
framework;  
• The need for the involvement of an 
auditor’s expert to assist with audit 
procedures related to particular 
disclosur es (for example, 
disclosures related to pension or 
other retirement benefit 
obligations); and  
• Matters relating to disclosures that 
the auditor may wish to discuss 
with those charged with 
governance. * 
* SLAuS 260 (Revised), 
Communication with Those 
Charged with Governance, 
paragraph A13  
 
2014 – A19 
2017 – A21 
As discussed in paragraph A11, a 
suitable, brief memorandum may 
serve as the documented strategy for 
the audit of a smaller entity. For the 
audit plan, standard audit programs or 
checklists (see paragraph A17) drawn 
up on the assumption of few relevant 
control activities, as is likely to be the 
case in a smaller entity, may be used 
provided that they are tailored to the 
circumstances of the engagement, 
including the auditor’s risk 
assessments.  
 
As discussed in paragraph A11, a 
suitable, brief memorandum may  serve 
as the documented strategy for the 
audit of a smaller entity. For the audit 
plan, standard audit programs or 
checklists (see paragraph A19) drawn 
up on the assumption of few relevant 
control activities, as is likely to be the 
case in a smaller entit y, may be used 
provided that they are tailored to the 
circumstances of the engagement, 
including the auditor’s risk 
assessments.  
 
 … 
 
• Whether the entity has an internal 
…. 
• Whether the ent ity has an internal 

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  39A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
audit function and if so, whether, 
in which areas and to what extent, 
the work of the function can be 
used for purposes of the audit.  
… 
• Significant changes in the 
financial reporting framework, 
such as changes in accounting 
standards . 
… 
audit function and, if so, whether, 
in which areas and to what extent, 
the work of the function can be 
used, or internal auditors can be 
used to provide direct assistance, 
for purposes of the audit.  
… 
• Changes within the applicable 
financial reporting framework, 
such as changes in accounting 
standards, which may involve 
significant new or revised 
disclosures.  
… 
• The process(es) management uses 
to identify and prepare the 
disclosures required by the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework, including disclosures 
containing information that is 
obtained from outside of the 
general and subsidiary ledgers .  
… 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 315  (SLAuS 315  - IDENTIFYING AND ASSESSING 
THE RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT THROUGH UNDERSTANDING THE 
ENTITY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT ) 
 
2 This SLAuS is effective for audits of 
financial statements for periods 
beginning on or 01 January 2014 . 
This SLAuS  is effective for audits of 
financial statements for periods ending 
on or after 01 January 2015 . 
 
6 The risk assessment procedures shall 
include the following:  
 
(a)  Inquiries of management, and  of 
others within the entity who in the 
auditor’s judgment may have 
information that is likely to assist 
in identifying risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud or 
error. (Ref: Para. A6) 
 
(b)  Analytical procedures. (Ref: Para. 
A7-A10) 
 
The risk assessment procedures shall 
include the following:  
 
(a) Inquiries of management, of 
appropriate individuals within the 
internal audit function (if the 
function exists), and of others 
within the entity who in the 
auditor’s judgment may have 
information that is likely to assist 
in identifying risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud or error. 
(Ref: Para. A6–A13)  
 

<!-- page 40 -->

40A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
(c)  Observation  and inspection. (Ref: 
Para. A11 ) 
 
(b) Analytical procedures. (Ref: Para. 
A14–A17) 
 
(c) Observation and inspection. (Ref: 
Para. A18) 
 
9 Where the auditor intends to use 
information obtained from the 
auditor’s previous experience with 
the entity and from audit procedures 
performed in previous audits, the 
auditor shall determine whether 
changes have occurred since the 
previous audit that may  affect its 
relevance to the current audit. (Ref: 
Para. A12 -A13) 
Where the auditor intends to use 
information obtained from the 
auditor’s previous experience with the 
entity and from audit procedures 
performed in previous audits, the 
auditor shall determin e whether 
changes have occurred since the 
previous audit that may affect its 
relevance to the current audit. (Ref: 
Para. A19 –A20) 
 
10 The engagement partner and other 
key engagement team members shall 
discuss the susceptibility of the 
entity’s financial s tatements to 
material misstatement, and the 
application of the applicable financial 
reporting framework to the entity’s 
facts and circumstances. The 
engagement partner shall determine 
which matters are to be 
communicated to engagement team 
members not invo lved in the 
discussion. (Ref: Para. A14 -A16) 
 
The engagement partner and other key 
engagement team members shall 
discuss the susceptibility of the entity’s 
financial statements to material 
misstatement, and the application of 
the applicable financial repor ting 
framework to the entity’s facts and 
circumstances. The engagement 
partner shall determine which matters 
are to be communicated to engagement 
team members not involved in the 
discussion. (Ref: Para. A21 –A24) 
 
11 The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of the following:  
 
(a)  Relevant industry, regulatory, and 
other external factors including 
the applicable financial reporting 
framework. (Ref: Para. A17 -A22) 
 
(b)  The nature of the entity, 
including:  
 
(i)  its operations;  
 
(ii) its ownership and governance 
structures;  
 
(iii)  the types of investments 
that the entity is making and 
The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of the following:  
(a) Relevant industry, regulatory, and 
other external factors including the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework. (Ref: Para. A25 –A30) 
(b) The nature of the entity, including:  
(i) its operations;  
(ii) its ownership and governan ce 
structures;  
(iii)  the types of investments that 
the entity is making and plans 
to make, including 

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  41A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
plans to make, including 
investments in special -
purpose entities; and  
 
(iv)  the way that the entity is 
structured and how it is 
financed  
 
to enable the au ditor to understand 
the classes of transactions, account 
balances, and disclosures to be 
expected in the financial 
statements.(Ref: Para. A23 -A27) 
 
(c)  The entity’s selection and 
application of accounting 
policies, including the reasons for 
changes theret o. The auditor shall 
evaluate whether the entity’s 
accounting policies are 
appropriate for its business and 
consistent with the applicable 
financial reporting framework and 
accounting policies used in the 
relevant industry. (Ref: Para. 
A28) 
 
(d)  The entit y’s objectives and 
strategies, and those related 
business risks that may result in 
risks of material misstatement. 
(Ref: Para. A29 -A35) 
 
(e)  The measurement and review of 
the entity’s financial 
performance. (Ref: Para. A36 -
A41) 
 
investments in special -
purpose entities; and  
(iv) the way that the entity is 
structured and how it is 
financed,  
to enable the auditor to understand the 
classes of tr ansactions, account 
balances, and disclosures to be 
expected in the financial statements. 
(Ref: Para. A31 –A35) 
(c) The entity’s selection and 
application of accounting 
policies, including the reasons 
for changes thereto. The auditor 
shall evaluate whether the 
entity’s accounting policies are 
appropriate for its business and 
consistent with the applicable 
financial repo rting framework 
and accounting policies used in 
the relevant industry. (Ref: Para. 
A36) 
(d) The entity’s objectives and 
strategies, and those related 
business risks that may result in 
risks of material misstatement. 
(Ref: Para. A37 –A43) 
(e) The measurement and rev iew of 
the entity’s financial 
performance. (Ref: Para. A44 –
A49)  
 
12 The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit. Although most 
controls relevant to the audit are 
likely to relate to financial reporting, 
not all con trols that relate to financial 
reporting are relevant to the audit. It 
is a matter of the auditor’s 
professional judgment whether a 
control, individually or in 
combination with others, is relevant 
to the audit. (Ref: Para. A42 -A65) 
The auditor shall obtain  an 
understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit. Although most 
controls relevant to the audit are likely 
to relate to financial reporting, not all 
controls that relate to financial 
reporting are relevant to the audit. It is 
a matter of the audi tor’s professional 
judgment whether a control, 
individually or in combination with 
others, is relevant to the audit. (Ref: 

<!-- page 42 -->

42A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
Para. A50 –A73)  
 
13 When obtaining an understanding of 
controls that are relevant to the audit, 
the auditor shall evaluate the design 
of those controls and determine 
whether they have been implemented, 
by performing procedures in addition 
to inquiry of the entity’s personnel.  
(Ref: Para. A66 -A68) 
 
When obtaining an understanding of 
controls that are relevant to the audit, 
the auditor shall evaluate the design of 
those controls and determine whether 
they have been implemented, by 
performing procedures in addition to 
inquiry of the entity’s personnel. (Ref: 
Para. A74 –A76) 
 
14 (b)  The strengths in the control 
environment elements collectively 
provide an appropriate foundation for 
the other components of internal 
control, and whether those other 
components are not undermined by 
deficiencies in the control 
environment. (Ref: Para. A69 -A78) 
 
The strengths in the control 
environment elements collectively 
provide an appropriate foundation for 
the other components of internal 
control, and whether those other 
components are not undermined by 
deficiencies in the control 
environment. (Ref: Para. A77 –A87) 
 
15 (d)  Deciding about actions to address 
those risks. (Ref: Para. A79)  
Deciding about actions to address 
those risks. (Ref: Para. A88 ) 
 
17 If the entity has not established such a 
process or has an ad hoc process, the 
auditor shall discuss with 
management whether business risks 
relevant to financial reporting 
objectives have been identified and 
how they have been addressed. The 
auditor shall evaluate whether the 
absence of a documented risk 
assessment process is appropriate in 
the circumstances, or determine 
whether it represents a significant 
deficiency in internal control. (Ref: 
Para. A80 ) 
 
If the entity has not established such a 
process or has an ad hoc process, the 
auditor shall discuss with management 
whether business risks relevant to 
financial reporting objectives have 
been identified and how they have 
been addressed. The auditor shall 
evaluate whether the absence of a 
documented risk assessment process is 
appropriate in the circumstances, or 
determine whether it represents a 
significant deficiency in internal 
control. (Ref: Para. A89 ) 
 
18 The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of th e information 
system, including the related business 
processes, relevant to financial 
reporting, including the following 
areas:  
 
(a)  The classes of transactions in the 
entity’s operations that are 
significant to the financial 
statements;  
The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of the information 
system, including the related business 
processes, relevant to financial 
reporting, including the following 
areas: ( Ref: Para. A90 –A92 and A95‒
A96) 
(a) The classes of transactions in the 
entity’s operations that are 
significant to the financial 

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  43A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 
(b)  The procedures, within both 
information technology (IT) and 
manual systems, by which those 
transactions are initiated, 
recorded, processed, corrected as 
necessary, transferred to the 
general ledger and reported in the 
financial statements;  
 
(c)  The related ac counting records, 
supporting information and 
specific accounts in the financial 
statements that are used to 
initiate, record, process and report 
transactions; this includes the 
correction of incorrect 
information and how information 
is transferred to the g eneral 
ledger. The records may be in 
either manual or electronic form;  
 
(d)  How the information system 
captures events and conditions, 
other than transactions, that are 
significant to the financial 
statements;  
 
(e)  The financial reporting process 
used to  prepare the entity’s 
financial statements, including 
significant accounting estimates 
and disclosures; and  
 
(f)  Controls surrounding journal 
entries, including non -standard 
journal entries used to record 
non-recurring, unusual 
transactions or adjustments . (Ref : 
Para. A81 -A85) 
 
statements;  
(b) The procedures, within both 
information technology (IT) and 
manual systems, by which those 
transactions are initiated, recorded, 
processed, corrected a s necessary, 
transferred to the general ledger 
and reported in the financial 
statements;  
(c) The related accounting records, 
supporting information and 
specific accounts in the financial 
statements that are used to initiate, 
record, process and report 
transact ions; this includes the 
correction of incorrect information 
and how information is transferred 
to the general ledger. The records 
may be in either manual or 
electronic form;  
(d) How the information system 
captures events and conditions, 
other than transactions , that are 
significant to the financial 
statements;  
(e) The financial reporting process 
used to prepare the entity’s 
financial statements, including 
significant accounting estimates 
and disclosures; and  
(f) Controls surrounding journal 
entries, including non -stand ard 
journal entries used to record non -
recurring, unusual transactions or 
adjustments. (Ref: Para. A93 –A94)  
This understanding of the information 
system relevant to financial reporting 
shall include relevant aspects of that 
system relating to information 
disclosed in the financial statements 
that is obtained from within or outside 
of the general and subsidiary ledgers.  
 
19 The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of how the entity 
The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of how the entity 

<!-- page 44 -->

44A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
communicates financial reporting 
roles and responsibilities and 
significant matters relating to 
financial reporting, including: (Ref: 
Para. A86 -A87) 
communicates financial reporting roles 
and resp onsibilities and significant 
matters relating to financial reporting, 
including: (Ref: Para. A97 –A98)  
 
20 The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of control activities 
relevant to the audit, being those the 
auditor judges it necessary to 
understand in order to assess the risks 
of material misstatement at the 
assertion level and design further 
audit procedures responsive to 
assessed risks. An audit does not 
require an understanding of all the 
control activities related to each 
significant class of transa ctions, 
account balance, and disclosure in the 
financial statements or to every 
assertion relevant to them. (Ref: Para. 
A88-A94) 
 
The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of control activities 
relevant to the audit, being those the 
auditor judges it necessary to 
understand in order to assess the risks 
of material misstatement at the 
assertion level and design further audit 
procedure s responsive to assessed 
risks. An audit does not require an 
understanding of all the control 
activities related to each significant 
class of transactions, account balance, 
and disclosure in the financial 
statements or to every assertion 
relevant to them. (Ref: Para. A99 –
A106 ) 
 
21 In understanding the entity’s control 
activities, the auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of how the entity has 
responded to risks arising from IT. 
(Ref: Para. A95 -A97) 
In understanding the entity’s control 
activities, the audi tor shall obtain an 
understanding of how the entity has 
responded to risks arising from IT. 
(Ref: Para. A107 –A109 ) 
 
22 The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of the major activities 
that the entity uses to monitor internal 
control over  financial reporting, 
including those related to those 
control activities relevant to the audit, 
and how the entity initiates remedial 
actions to deficiencies in its controls. 
(Ref: Para. A98 -A100) 
 
The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of the major activities 
that the entity uses to monitor internal 
control relevant to  financial reporting, 
including those related to those control 
activities relevant to the audit, and how 
the entity initiates reme dial actions to 
deficiencies in its controls. (Ref: Para. 
A110–A112)  
 
23 If the entity has an internal audit 
function, 1 the auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of the following in 
order to determine whether the 
internal audit function is likely to be 
relevant to the audit:  
 
(a)  The nature of the internal audit 
function’s responsibilities and 
how the internal audit funct ion 
If the entity has an internal audit 
function, 2 the auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of t he nature of the 
internal audit function’s 
responsibilities, its organizational 
status, and the activities performed, or 
to be performed. (Ref: Para. A113 –
A120)  
 

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  45A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
fits in the entity’s organizational 
structure; and  
 
(b)  The activities performed, or to be 
performed,  by the internal audit 
function. (Ref: Para. A101 -A103)  
 
Foot notes  1. The term “internal audit function” 
is defined in SLAuS 610, “Using 
the Work of Internal Auditors,” 
paragraph 7(a), as: “An appraisal 
activity established or provided as 
a service to the entity. Its 
functions include, amongst other 
things, examining, eva luating and 
monitoring the adequacy and 
effectiveness of internal control.”  
 
2. SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013), Using 
the Work of Internal Auditors , 
paragraph 14(a), defines the term 
“internal audit function” for 
purposes of the SLAuS.  
24 The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of the sources of the 
information used in the entity’s 
monitoring activities, and the basis 
upon which management considers 
the information to be sufficiently 
reliable for the purpose. (Ref: Para. 
A104) 
 
The auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of the sources of the 
information used in the entity’s 
monitoring activities, and the basis 
upon which management considers the 
information to be sufficiently reliable 
for the purpose. (Ref: Para. A121 ) 
 
25 The au ditor shall identify and assess 
the risks of material misstatement at:  
 
(a)  the financial statement level; and 
(Ref: Para. A105 -A108) 
 
(b)  the assertion level for classes of 
transactions, account balances, 
and disclosures (Ref: Para. A109 -
A113)  
 
to provide a basis for designing and 
performing further audit procedures.  
 
The auditor shall identify and assess 
the risks of material misstatement at:  
(a) the financial statement level; and 
(Ref: Para. A122 –A125 ) 
(b) the assertion level for classes of 
transactions, account balances, and 
disclosures, (Ref: Para. A126 –
A131 ) 
to provide a basis for designing and 
performing further audit procedures.  
26 For this purpose, the auditor shall:  
 
(a)  Identify risks throughout the 
process of obtaining an 
understanding of the entity and its 
environment, including relevant 
controls that relate to the risks, 
and by considering the classes of 
transactions, account bala nces, 
For this purpose, the auditor shall:  
(a) Identify risks throug hout the 
process of obtaining an 
understanding of the entity and its 
environment, including relevant 
controls that relate to the risks, and 
by considering the classes of 

<!-- page 46 -->

46A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
and disclosures in the financial 
statements; (Ref: Para. A114 -
A115) 
AUDITING  
(b)  Assess the identified risks, and 
evaluate whether they relate more 
pervasively to the financial 
statements as a whole and 
potentially affect many 
assertions;  
 
(c)  Relate the identified risks to what 
can go wrong at the assertion 
level, taking account of relevant 
controls that the auditor intends to 
test; and (Ref: Para. A116 -A118) 
 
(d)  Consider the likelihood of 
misstatement, including the 
possibility of multiple 
misstatements, and whether the 
potential misstatement is of a 
magnitude that  could result in a 
material misstatement.  
 
transactions, account balances, and 
disclosures (including the 
quantitative or qualita tive aspects 
of such disclosures)  in the financial 
statements; (Ref: Para. A132 –
A136 ) 
(b) Assess the identified risks, and 
evaluate whether they relate more 
pervasively to the financial 
statements as a whole and 
potentially affect many assertions;  
(c) Relate the identified risks to what 
can go wrong at the assertion level, 
taking account of relevant controls 
that the auditor intends to test; and 
(Ref: Para. A137 –A139 ) 
(d) Consider the likelihood of 
misstatement, including the 
possibility of multiple 
misstatements, and  whether the 
potential misstatement could result 
in a material misstatement. (Ref: 
Para. A140)  
28 (f)  Whether the risk involves significant 
transactions that are outside the 
normal course of business for the 
entity, or that otherwise appear to be 
unusual. (Ref: Para. A119 -A123) 
 
Whether the risk involves significant 
transactions that are outside the normal  
course of business for the entity, or 
that otherwise appear to be unusual. 
(Ref: Para. A141 –A145 ) 
 
29 If the auditor has determined that a 
significant risk exists, the auditor 
shall obtain an understanding of the 
entity’s controls, including control 
activities, relevant to that risk. (Ref: 
Para. A124 -A126) 
 
If the auditor has determined that a 
significant risk exists, the auditor shall 
obtain an understanding of the entity’s 
controls, including control activities, 
relevant to that risk. (Ref: Para. A146 –
A148 ) 
 
30 In respect of some risks, the auditor 
may jud ge that it is not possible or 
practicable to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence only from 
substantive procedures. Such risks 
may relate to the inaccurate or 
incomplete recording of routine and 
significant classes of transactions or 
account balanc es, the characteristics 
In respect of some risks, the auditor 
may judge that it is not possible or 
practicable to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence only from 
substantive procedures. Such risks may 
relate to the inaccurate or incomplete 
recording of routin e and significant 
classes of transactions or account 
balances, the characteristics of which 

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  47A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
of which often permit highly 
automated processing with little or no 
manual intervention. In such cases, 
the entity’s controls over such risks 
are relevant to the audit and the 
auditor shall obtain an understanding 
of them. (Ref: Para. A127 -A129)  
often permit highly automated 
processing with little or no manual 
intervention. In such cases, the entity’s 
controls over such risks are relevant to 
the audit and t he auditor shall obtain 
an understanding of them. (Ref: Para. 
A149 –A151)  
 
31 The auditor’s assessment of the risks 
of material misstatement at the 
assertion level may change during the 
course of the audit as additional audit 
evidence is obtained. In 
circu mstances where the auditor 
obtains audit evidence from 
performing further audit procedures, 
or if new information is obtained, 
either of which is inconsistent with 
the audit evidence on which the 
auditor originally based the 
assessment, the auditor shall r evise 
the assessment and modify the further 
planned audit procedures accordingly. 
(Ref: Para. A130)  
 
The auditor’s assessment of the risks 
of material misstatement at the 
assertion level may change during the 
course of the audit as additional audit 
evidence is obtained. In circumstances 
where the auditor obtains audit 
evidence from performing further audi t 
procedures, or if new information is 
obtained, either of which is 
inconsistent with the audit evidence on 
which the auditor originally based the 
assessment, the auditor shall revise the 
assessment and modify the further 
planned audit procedures according ly. 
(Ref: Para. A152)   
 
32 (d)  The risks identified, and related 
controls about which the auditor has 
obtained an understanding, as a result 
of the requirements in paragraphs 27 -
30. (Ref: Para. A131 -A134) 
 
The risks identified, and related 
controls about which the auditor has 
obtained an understanding, as a result 
of the requirements in paragraphs 27 –
30. (Ref: Para. A153 –A156 ) 
 
A1 … 
• Identifying areas where special 
audit consideration may be 
necessary, for e xample, related 
party transactions, the 
appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern 
assumption, or considering the 
business purpose of transactions;  
… 
… 
• Identifying areas relating to 
amounts or disclosures in the 
financial statements where special 
audit consideration may be 
necessary, for example: related 
party transactions or management’s 
assessment of the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern; or 
when considering the business 
purpose of transactions;  
… 
 
Heading  Inquiries of Management and Others 
within the Entity (Ref: Para. 6(a))  
 
Inquiries of Management, the Internal 
Audit Function and  Others within the 
Entity (Ref: Para. 6(a))  
 

<!-- page 48 -->

48A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
A6 Much of the information obtained by 
the auditor’s inquiries is obtained 
from management and those 
responsible for financial reporting . 
However, the auditor may also obtain 
information, or a different perspective 
in identifying risks of material 
misstatement, through inquiries of 
others within the entity and other 
employees wit h different levels of 
authority. For example:  
 
•  Inquiries directed towards those 
charged with governance may 
help the auditor understand the 
environment in which the 
financial statements are prepared.  
 
•  Inquiries directed toward internal 
audit personnel may provide 
information about internal audit 
procedures performed during the 
year relating to the design and 
effectiveness of the entity’s 
internal control and whether 
management has satisfactorily 
responded to findings from those 
procedures.  
 
•  Inquiries of employees involved 
in initiating, processing or  
recording complex or unusual 
transactions may help the auditor 
to evaluate the appropriateness of 
the selection and application of 
certain accounting policies.  
 
•  Inquiries directed toward in -
house legal counsel may provide 
information about such matters a s 
litigation, compliance with laws 
and regulations, knowledge of 
fraud or suspected fraud affecting 
the entity, warranties, post -sales 
obligations, arrangements (such 
as joint ventures) with business 
partners and the meaning of 
contract terms.  
 
• Inquiries d irected towards 
Much of the information obtained by 
the auditor’s inquiries is obtained f rom 
management and those responsible for 
financial reporting.  Information may 
also be obtained by the auditor through 
inquiries with the internal audit 
function, if the entity has such a 
function, and others within the entity.  

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  49A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
marketing or sales personnel may 
provide information about 
changes in the entity’s marketing 
strategies, sales trends, or 
contractual arrangements with its 
customers.  
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A7 
[No Correspondence]  The auditor may also obtain 
information, or a different perspective 
in identifying risks of material 
misstatement, through inquiries of 
others within the entity and other 
employees with different levels of 
authority. For example:  
• Inquiries directed towards those 
charged with governance may help 
the auditor understand the 
environment in which the financial 
statements are prepared. SLAuS 
260 (Revised)* identifies the 
importance of effective two -way 
communicati on in assisting the 
auditor to obtain information from 
those charged with governance in 
this regard.  
• Inquiries of employees involved in 
initiating, processing or recording 
complex or unusual transactions 
may help the auditor to evaluate 
the appropriateness  of the selection 
and application of certain 
accounting policies.  
• Inquiries directed toward in -house 
legal counsel may provide 
information about such matters as 
litigation, compliance with laws 
and regulations, knowledge of 
fraud or suspected fraud affecti ng 
the entity, warranties, post -sales 
obligations, arrangements (such as 
joint ventures) with business 
partners and the meaning of 
contract terms.  
• Inquiries directed towards 
marketing or sales personnel may 

<!-- page 50 -->

50A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
provide information about changes 
in the entity’s  marketing strategies, 
sales trends, or contractual 
arrangements with its customers.  
• Inquiries directed to the risk 
management function (or those 
performing such roles) may 
provide information about 
operational and regulatory risks 
that may affect financia l reporting.  
• Inquiries directed to information 
systems personnel may provide 
information about system changes, 
system or control failures, or other 
information system -related risks.  
* SLAuS 260 (Revised), 
Communication with Those 
Charged with Governance , 
paragraph 4(b)  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A8 
[No Correspondence]  As obtaining an understanding of the 
entity and its environment is a 
continual, dynamic process, the 
auditor’s inquiries may occur 
throughout the audit engagement. 
 
Heading  [No Correspondence]  Inquiries of the Internal Audit Function  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A9 
[No Correspondence]  If an entity has an internal audit 
function, inquiries of the appropriate 
individuals within the function may 
provide information that is useful to 
the auditor in obtaining an 
understanding of the entity and its 
environment, and in identifying and 
assessing risks of material 
misstatement at the financial statement 
and assertion levels. In performing its 
work, the internal audit function is 
likely to have obtained insight into the 
entity’s operations and business risks, 
and may have findings based on its 
work, such as identified control 
deficiencies or risks, that may provide 
valuable input into the auditor’s 
understanding of the entity, the 

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  51A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
auditor’s risk assessments or other 
aspects of the audit. The auditor’s 
inquiries are therefore made whether 
or not the  auditor expects to use the 
work of the internal audit function to 
modify the nature or timing, or reduce 
the extent, of audit procedures to be 
performed.* Inquiries of particular 
relevance may be about matters the 
internal audit function has raised with 
those charged with governance and the 
outcomes of the function’s own risk 
assessment process.  
*  The relevant requirements are 
contained in SLAuS 610 (Revised 
2013).   
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A10 
[No Correspondence]  If, based on responses to the auditor’s 
inquiries, it appears that there are 
findings that may be relevant to the 
entity’s financial reporting and the 
audit, the auditor may consider it 
appropriate to read related reports of 
the internal audit function. Examples 
of reports of the i nternal audit function 
that may be relevant include the 
function’s strategy and planning 
documents and reports that have been 
prepared for management or those 
charged with governance describing 
the findings of the internal audit 
function’s examinations.  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A11 
[No Correspondence]  In addition, in accordance with SLAuS 
240,* if the internal audit function 
provides information to the auditor 
regarding any actual, suspected or 
alleged fraud, the auditor takes this 
into accoun t in the auditor’s 
identification of risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud.  
* SLAuS 240, paragraph 19  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A12 
[No Correspondence]  Appropriate individuals within the 
internal audit function with whom 
inquiries are made are those who, in 
the auditor’s judgment, have the 
appropriate knowledge, experience and 

<!-- page 52 -->

52A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
authority, such as the chief internal 
audit executive or, depending on the 
circumstances, other personnel within 
the function. The auditor may also 
consider it appropriate to have periodic 
meetings with these individuals.  
Heading  [No Correspondence]  Considerations specific to public sector 
entities (Ref: Para 6(a))  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A13 
[No Correspondence]  Auditors of public sector entities often 
have additional responsibilities with 
regard to internal control and 
compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. Inquiries of appropriate 
individuals in the internal audit 
function can assist the auditors in 
identifying the risk of material 
noncompliance with applicable laws 
and regulations and the risk of 
deficiencies in internal control over 
financial reporting.  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A19 
[No Correspondence]  …. 
• Those particular types of 
transactions and other events or 
account balances (and related 
disclosures) where the auditor 
experienced difficulty in 
performing the necessary audit 
procedures, for example, due to 
their complexity.  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A22 
[No Correspondence]  As part o f the discussion among the 
engagement team required by 
paragraph 10, consideration of the 
disclosure requirements of the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework assists in identifying early 
in the audit where there may be risks 
of material misstatement in  relation to 
disclosures. Examples of matters the 
engagement team may discuss include:  
• Changes in financial reporting 
requirements that may result in 
significant new or revised 
disclosures;  

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  53A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
• Changes in the entity’s 
environment, financial condition or 
activities that may result in 
significant new or revised 
disclosures, for example, a 
signific ant business combination in 
the period under audit;  
• Disclosures for which obtaining 
sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence may have been difficult 
in the past; and  
• Disclosures about complex 
matters, including those involving 
significant management judgment  
as to what information to disclose.  
 
2014 – A15 
2017 – A23 
It is not always necessary or practical 
for the discussion to include all 
members in a single discussion (as, 
for example, in a multi -location 
audit), nor is it necessary for all of 
the members of the engagement team 
to be informed of all of the decisions 
reached in the discussion. The 
engagement partner may discuss 
matters with key members of the 
engagement team including, if 
considered appropriate,  specialists  
and those responsible for the audits of 
components, while delegating 
discussion with others, taking account 
of the extent of communication 
considered necessary throughout the 
engagement team. A communications 
plan, agreed by the engagement 
partner, may be useful.  
 
It is not always necessary or practical 
for the discussion to include all 
members in a single discussion (as, for 
example, in a multi -location audit), nor 
is it necessary for all of the members 
of the engagement team to be informed 
of all of the decisions reached in the 
discussion. The engagement partner 
may discuss matters with key members 
of the engagement team including, if 
considered appropriate, those with 
specific skills or knowledge , and those 
responsible for the audits of 
components, while delegatin g 
discussion with others, taking account 
of the extent of communication 
considered necessary throughout the 
engagement team. A communications 
plan, agreed by the engagement 
partner, may be useful.  
2014 – A19 
2017 – A27 
… 
 
• Regulatory framework for a 
regula ted industry.  
… 
… 
• Regulatory framework for a 
regulated industry, including 
requirements for disclosures.  
… 
 
2014 – A23 
2017 – A31 
An understanding of the nature of an 
entity enables the auditor to 
An understanding of the nature of an 
entity enables the auditor to understand 

<!-- page 54 -->

54A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
understand such matters as:  
 
•  Whether the entity has a complex 
structure, for example with 
subsidiaries or other components 
in multiple locations. Complex 
structures often introduce issues 
that may give rise to risks of 
material misstatement. Such 
issues may include whether 
goodwill, joint ventures, 
investments, or special -purpose 
entities are accounted for 
appropriately.  
 
•  The ownership, and relations  
between owners and other people 
or entities. This understanding 
assists in determining whether 
related party transactions have 
been ide ntified and accounted for 
appropriately. SLAuS 550 
establishes requirements and 
provides guidance on the 
auditor’s considerations relevant 
to related parties.  
 
such matters as:  
• Whether the entity has a complex 
structure, for example, with 
subsidiaries or other components in 
multiple locations. Complex 
structures often introduce issues 
that may give rise to risks of 
material misstatement. Such issues 
may include whether goodwill, 
joint ventures, investments, or 
special -purpose entities are 
accounted for appropriately  and 
whether adequate disclosure of 
such issues in the financial 
statements has been made.  
 
• The ownership, and relationships  
between owners and other people 
or entities. This understanding 
assists in determining whether 
related party transactions have 
been appropriately identified, 
accounted for, and adequately 
disclosed in the financial 
statements. SLAuS 550 establishes 
requir ements and provides 
guidance on the auditor’s 
considerations relevant to related 
parties.  
 
2014 – A24 
2017 – A32 
…. 
 
•  Financial reporting such as:  
 
o  Accounting principles and 
industry specific practices, 
including industry -specific 
significant categories (for 
example, loans and investments 
for banks, or research and 
development for 
pharmaceuticals).  
 
o  Revenue recognition practices . 
 
… 
 
… 
• Financial re porting practices  such 
as:   
○ Accounting principles and 
industry -specific practices, 
including for industry -specific 
significant classes of transactions, 
account balances and related 
disclosures in the financial 
statements (for example, loans and 
investments for banks, or research 
and development for 
pharmaceuticals).  
○ Revenue recognition.  
… 
2014 – A34 Usually, management identifies Usually, management identifies 

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  55A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
2017 – A42 business risks and develops 
approaches to address them. Such a 
risk assessment process is part of 
internal  control and is discussed in 
paragraph 15 and paragraphs A79-
A80. 
 
business risks and develops approaches 
to address them. Such a risk 
assessment process is part of internal 
control and is discussed in paragraph 
15 and paragraphs A88–A89. 
2014 – A37 
2017 – A45 
The measurement and review of 
financial performance is not the same 
as the monitoring of controls 
(discussed as a component of internal 
control in paragraphs A98-A104 ), 
though their purposes may overlap:  
… 
The measurement and review of 
financial performance is not the same 
as the monit oring of controls 
(discussed as a component of internal 
control in paragraphs A110–A121), 
though their purposes may overlap:  
… 
 
2014 – A52 
2017 – A60 
Application material relating to the 
five components of internal control as 
they relate to a financial statement 
audit is set out in paragraphs A69-
A104 below. Appendix 1 provides 
further explanation of these 
components of internal control.  
 
Application ma terial relating to the 
five components of internal control as 
they relate to a financial statement 
audit is set out in paragraphs A77–
A121 below. Appendix 1 provides 
further explanation of these 
components of internal control.  
 
2014 – A68 
2017 – A76 
Obtai ning an understanding of an 
entity’s controls is not sufficient to 
test their operating effectiveness, 
unless there is some automation that 
provides for the consistent operation 
of the controls. For example, 
obtaining audit evidence about the 
implementatio n of a manual control at 
a point in time does not provide audit 
evidence about the operating 
effectiveness of the control at other 
times during the period under audit. 
However, because of the inherent 
consistency of IT processing (see 
paragraph A55 ), perfo rming audit 
procedures to determine whether an 
automated control has been 
implemented may serve as a test of 
that control’s operating effectiveness, 
depending on the auditor’s 
assessment and testing of controls 
such as those over program changes. 
Tests of the operating effectiveness of 
controls are further described in 
SLAuS 330.  
 
Obtaining an understanding of an 
entity’s controls is not sufficient to test 
their operating effectiveness, unless 
there is some automation that provides 
for the consistent operation of the 
controls. For example, obtaining audit 
evidence about the implemen tation of 
a manual control at a point in time 
does not provide audit evidence about 
the operating effectiveness of the 
control at other times during the period 
under audit. However, because of the 
inherent consistency of IT processing 
(see paragraph A63 ), performing audit 
procedures to determine whether an 
automated control has been 
implemented may serve as a test of 
that control’s operating effectiveness, 
depending on the auditor’s assessment 
and testing of controls such as those 
over program changes. Test s of the 
operating effectiveness of controls are 
further described in SLAuS 330.  
 

<!-- page 56 -->

56A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A80 
[No Correspondence]  The auditor may also consider how 
management has responded to the 
findings and recommendations of the 
internal a udit function regarding 
identified deficiencies in internal 
control relevant to the audit, including 
whether and how such responses have 
been implemented, and whether they 
have been subsequently evaluated by 
the internal audit function.  
 
2014 – A72 
2017 – A81 
… 
 
•  The extent to which they 
evaluate whether the financial 
statements are prepared in 
accordance with the applicable 
financial reporting framework.  
 
 … 
• The extent to which they evaluate 
whether the financial statements 
are prepared in accordanc e with the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework, including whether the 
financial statements include 
adequate disclosures.  
 
2014 – A76 
2017 – A85 
The control environment within small 
entities is likely to differ from larger 
entities. For example, those charged 
with governance in small entities may 
not include an independent or outside 
member, and the role of governance 
may be undertaken directly by the 
owner -manager where there are no 
other owners. The nature of the 
control environment may also 
influence the significance of other 
controls, or their absence. For 
example, the active involvement of an 
owner -manager may mitigate certain 
of the risks aris ing from a lack of 
segregation of duties in a small 
business;  it may, however, increase 
other risks, for example, the risk of 
override of controls.  
 
The control environment within small 
entities is likely to differ from larger 
entities. For example, those charged 
with governance in small entities may 
not include an independent or outside 
member, and the role of governance 
may be undertaken directly by the 
owner-manager where there are no 
other owners. The nature of the control 
environment may also influence  the 
significance of other controls, or their 
absence. For example, the active 
involvement of an owner -manager may 
mitigate certain of the risks arising 
from a lack of segregation of duties in 
a small entity; it may, however, 
increase other risks, for exam ple, the 
risk of override of controls.  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A91 
[No Correspondence]  Financial statements may contain 
information that is obtained from 
outside of the general and subsidiary 
ledgers. Examples of such information 
may include: 
• Information obtained from lease 
agreements disclosed in the 
financial statements, such as 

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  57A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
renewal options or future lease 
payments.  
• Information disclosed in the 
financial statements that is 
produced by an entity’s risk 
management system.  
• Fair valu e information produced by 
management’s experts and 
disclosed in the financial 
statements.  
• Information disclosed in the 
financial statements that has been 
obtained from models, or from 
other calculations used to develop 
estimates recognized or disclosed 
in the financial statements, 
including information relating to 
the underlying data and 
assumptions used in those models, 
such as:  
o Assumptions developed internally 
that may affect an asset’s useful 
life; or  
o Data such as interest rates that are 
affected by fac tors outside the 
control of the entity.  
• Information disclosed in the 
financial statements about 
sensitivity analyses derived from 
financial models that demonstrates 
that management has considered 
alternative assumptions.  
• Information recognized or 
disclosed  in the financial 
statements that has been obtained 
from an entity’s tax returns and 
records.  
• Information disclosed in the 
financial statements that has been 
obtained from analyses prepared to 
support management’s assessment 
of the entity’s ability to continue as 
a going concern, such as 
disclosures, if any, related to 

<!-- page 58 -->

58A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
events or conditions that hav e been 
identified that may cast significant 
doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.*  
* See paragraphs 19‒20 of SLAuS 570 
(Revised), Going Concern . 
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A92 
[No Correspondence]  The understanding of the information 
system relevant to financial reporting 
required by paragraph 18 of this 
SLAuS (including the understanding of 
relevant aspects of that system relating 
to information disclosed in the 
financial statements that is obtaine d 
from within or outside of the general 
and subsidiary ledgers) is a matter of 
the auditor’s professional judgment. 
For example, certain amounts or 
disclosures in the entity’s financial 
statements (such as disclosures about 
credit risk, liquidity risk, and  market 
risk) may be based on information 
obtained from the entity’s risk 
management system. However, the 
auditor is not required to understand all 
aspects of the risk management 
system, and uses professional 
judgment in determining the necessary 
understanding. 
 
Heading  Journal entries  Journal entries (Ref: Para. 18(f))  
 
Heading  Related business processes  Related business processes (Ref: Para. 
18) 
 
Heading  Considerations specific to smaller 
entities  Considerations specific to smaller 
entities (Ref: Para. 18) 
 
2014 – A85 
2017 – A96 
Information systems and related 
business processes relevant to 
financial reporting in small entities 
are likely to be less sophisticated than 
in larger entities, but their role is just 
as significant.  Small entities with 
active management involvement may 
not need extensive descriptions of 
accounting procedures, sophisticated 
The information system, and related 
business processes relevant to financial 
reporting in small entitie s, including 
relevant aspects of that system relating 
to information disclosed in the 
financial statements that is obtained 
from within or outside of the general 
and subsidiary ledgers, is likely to be 
less sophisticated than in larger 

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  59A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
accounting records, or written 
policies. Understanding the entity’s 
systems and processes  may therefore 
be easier in an audit of smaller 
entities, and may be more dependent 
on inquiry than on review of 
documentation. The need to obtain an 
understanding, however, remains 
important.  
entities, but its ro le is just as 
significant. Small entities with active 
management involvement may not 
need extensive descriptions of 
accounting procedures, sophisticated 
accounting records, or written policies. 
Understanding the entity’s information 
systems relevant to fin ancial reporting 
may therefore be easier in an audit of 
smaller entities, and may be more 
dependent on inquiry than on review of 
documentation. The need to obtain an 
understanding, however, remains 
important. 
 
Heading  Components of Internal Control —
Contro l Activities (Ref: Para. 20)  
Components of Internal Control —
Control Activities Relevant to the Audit 
(Ref: Para. 20)  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A103  
[No Correspondence]  Control activities relevant to the audit 
may include controls established by 
management that address risks of 
material misstatement related to 
disclosures not being prepared in 
accordance with the applicable 
financial reporting framework, in 
addition to controls that address risks 
related to account balances and 
transactions. Such control activities 
may relate to information included in 
the financial statements that is 
obtained from outside of the general 
and subsidiary ledgers.  
 
2014 – A96 
2017 – A108  
… 
 
They are generally implemented to 
deal with the risks referred to in 
paragraph A56  above.  
 
… 
 
They are generally implemented to 
deal with the risks referred to in 
paragraph A64  above.  
 
Heading  Internal Audit Functions (Ref: Para. 
23) The Entity’s Internal Audit Function 
(Ref: Para. 23)  
 
A101  
 
The entity’s internal audit function is 
likely to be relevant to the audit if the 
nature of the internal audit function’s 
responsibilities and activities are 
related to the entity’s financial 
[Content Deleted]  

<!-- page 60 -->

60A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
reporting, and t he auditor expects to 
use the work of the internal auditors 
to modify the nature or timing, or 
reduce the extent, of audit procedures 
to be performed. If the auditor 
determines that the internal audit 
function is likely to be relevant to the 
audit, SLAuS 6 10 applies.  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A113  
[No Correspondence]  If the entity has an internal audit 
function, obtaining an understanding 
of that function contributes to the 
auditor’s understanding of the entity 
and its environment, including internal 
control, in particular the role that the 
function plays in the entity ’s 
monitoring of internal control over 
financial reporting. This 
understanding, together with the 
information obtained from the 
auditor’s inquiries in paragraph 6(a) of 
this SLAuS, may also provide 
information that is directly relevant to 
the auditor’s ide ntification and 
assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement.  
 
2014 – A102  
2017 – A114  
The objectives of an internal audit 
function, and therefore the nature of 
its responsibilities and its status 
within the organization, vary widely 
and depend on the size and structure 
of the entity and the requirements of 
management and, where applicable, 
those charged with governance. The 
responsibilities of an internal audit 
function may include, for example, 
monitoring of internal control, risk 
management, and review of 
compliance with laws and 
regulations. On the other hand, the 
responsibilities of the internal audit 
function may be limited to the review 
of the economy, efficiency and 
effectiveness of operations, for 
example, and accordingly, may not 
relate to the entity’s financial 
reporting.  
 
The objectives and scope of an internal 
audit function, the nature of its 
responsibilities and its status within the 
organization, including the function’s 
authority and accountability, vary 
widely and depend on the size and 
structure of the entity and the 
requirements of management and, 
where applicable, those cha rged with 
governance. These matters may be set 
out in an internal audit charter or terms 
of reference. 
 

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  61A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
2014 – A103  
2017 – A115  
If the nature of the internal audit 
function’s responsibilities are related 
to the entity’s financial reporting, the 
external auditor’s consideration of the 
activities performed, or to be 
performed by, the internal audit 
function may include review of the 
internal audit function’s audit plan for 
the period, if any, and discussion of 
that plan with the internal auditors.   
The responsibilities of an internal audit 
function may include performing 
procedures and evaluating the results 
to provide assurance to management 
and those charged with governance 
regarding the design and effectiveness 
of risk management, internal contro l 
and governance processes. If so, the 
internal audit function may play an 
important role in the entity’s 
monitoring of internal control over 
financial reporting. However, the 
responsibilities of the internal audit 
function may be focused on evaluating 
the economy, efficiency and 
effectiveness of operations and, if so, 
the work of the function may not 
directly relate to the entity’s financial 
reporting. 
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A116  
[No Correspondence]  The auditor’s inquiries of appropriate 
individuals within the internal audit 
function in accordance with paragraph 
6(a) of this SLAuS help the auditor 
obtain an understanding of the nature 
of the internal audit function’s 
responsibilities. If the auditor 
determines that the function’s 
responsibilities are related to the 
entity’s financial reporting, the auditor 
may obtain further understanding of 
the activities performed, or to be 
performed, by the internal audit 
function by reviewing the internal 
audit fun ction’s audit plan for the 
period, if any, and discussing that plan 
with the appropriate individuals within 
the function. 
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A117  
[No Correspondence]  If the nature of the internal audit 
function’s responsibilities and 
assurance activities are related to the 
entity’s financial reporting, the auditor 
may also be able to use the work of the 
internal audit function to modify the 
nature or timing, or reduce the extent, 
of audit procedures to be performed 
directly by the audito r in obtaining 

<!-- page 62 -->

62A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
audit evidence. Auditors may be more 
likely to be able to use the work of an 
entity’s internal audit function when it 
appears, for example, based on 
experience in previous audits or the 
auditor’s risk assessment procedures, 
that the entity h as an internal audit 
function that is adequately and 
appropriately resourced relative to the 
size of the entity and the nature of its 
operations, and has a direct reporting 
relationship to those charged with 
governance.  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A118  
[No Correspondence]  If, based on the auditor’s preliminary 
understanding of the internal audit 
function, the auditor expects to use the 
work of the internal audit function to 
modify the nature or timing, or reduce 
the extent , of audit procedures to be 
performed, SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013) 
applies.  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A119  
[No Correspondence]  As is further discussed in SLAuS  610 
(Revised 2013), the activities of an 
internal audit function are distinct from 
other monitoring controls that may be 
relevant to financial reporting, such as 
reviews of management accounting 
information that are designed to 
contribute to how the entit y prevents or 
detects misstatements.  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A120  
[No Correspondence]  Establishing communications with the 
appropriate individuals within an 
entity’s internal audit function early in 
the engagement, and maintaining such 
communications throughout the 
engagement, can facilitate effective 
sharing of information. It creates an 
environment in which the auditor can 
be informed of significant matters that 
may come to the attention of the 
internal audit function when such 
matters may affect the work of the 
auditor. SLAuS 200 discusses the 
importance of the auditor planning and 
performing the audit with professional 

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  63A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
skepticism, including being alert to 
information that brings into question 
the reliability of documents and 
responses to i nquiries to be used as 
audit evidence. Accordingly, 
communication with the internal audit 
function throughout the engagement 
may provide opportunities for internal 
auditors to bring such information to 
the auditor’s attention. The auditor is 
then able to t ake such information into 
account in the auditor’s identification 
and assessment of risks of material 
misstatement.  
 
2014 – A106  
2017 – A123  
Risks at the financial statement level 
may derive in particular from a 
deficient control environment 
(although these risks may also relate 
to other factors, such as declining 
economic conditions). For example, 
deficiencies such as management’s 
lack of comp etence  may have a more 
pervasive effect on the financial 
statements and may require an overall 
response by the auditor.  
 
Risks at the financial statement level 
may derive in particular from a 
deficient control environment 
(although these risks may also rel ate to 
other factors, such as declining 
economic conditions). For example, 
deficiencies such as a lack of 
management competence or lack of 
oversight over the preparation of the 
financial statements  may have a more 
pervasive effect on the financial 
statements and may require an overall 
response by the auditor.  
 
2014 – A110  
2017 – A127  
In representing that the financial 
statements are in accordance with the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework, management implicitly or 
explicitly makes assertions regarding 
the recognition, measurement, 
presentation and disclosure of the 
various elements of financial 
statements and related disclosures.  
 
In representing that the financial 
statements are in accordance with the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework, management implicitly or 
explicitly makes assertions regarding 
recognition, measurement , and 
presentation of classes of transactions 
and events, account balances and 
disclosures. 
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A128  
[No Correspondence]  The auditor may use the assertions as 
described in paragraph A129(a) ‒(b) 
below or may express them differently 
provided all aspects described below 
have been covered. For example, the 
auditor may choose to combine the 
assertions about class es of transactions 
and events, and related disclosures, 
with the assertions about account 

<!-- page 64 -->

64A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
balances, and related disclosures.  
 
2014 – A111  
2017 – A129  
Assertions used by the auditor to 
consider the different types of 
potential misstatements that may 
occur fall into the following three 
categories and may take the following 
forms:  
 
(a)  Assertions about classes of 
transactions and events for the 
period under audit:  
 
(i)  Occurrence —transactions and 
events that have been recorded 
have occurred and pertai n to the 
entity.  
 
(ii)  Completeness —all transactions 
and events that should have been 
recorded have been recorded.  
 
(iii)  Accuracy —amounts and 
other data relating to recorded 
transactions and events have been 
recorded appropriately.  
 
(iv)  Cutoff —transac tions and 
events have been recorded in the 
correct accounting period.  
 
(v)  Classification —transactions and 
events have been recorded in the 
proper accounts.  
 
(b)Assertions about account balances 
at the period end:  
 
(i)  Existence —assets, liabilities, and 
equity interests exist.  
 
(ii)  Rights and obligations —the entity 
holds or controls the rights to 
assets, and liabilities are the 
obligations of the entity.  
 
(iii)  Completeness —all assets, 
liabilities and equity interests that 
should have been recorded have 
been recorded.  
Assertions used by the auditor in 
considering the different types of 
potential misstatements that may occur 
may fall into the following categories:  
(a) Assertions about classes of 
transactions and events, and related 
disclosures, for the period under 
audit:  
i. Occurrence —transactions and 
events that have been recorded 
or disclosed, have occurred, 
and such transactions and 
events pertain to the entity.  
ii. Completeness —all transactions 
and events that should have 
been recorded have been 
recorded, and all related 
disclosures that should have 
been included in the financial 
statements have been included.  
iii. Accuracy —amounts and other 
data relating to recorded 
transactions and events have 
been reco rded appropriately, 
and related disclosures have 
been appropriately measured 
and described.  
iv. Cutoff —transactions and 
events have been recorded in 
the correct accounting period.  
v. Classification —transactions 
and events have been recorded 
in the proper accounts . 
vi. Presentation —transactions and 
events are appropriately 
aggregated or disaggregated 
and clearly described, and 
related disclosures are relevant 
and understandable in the 
context of the requirements of 
the applicable financial 
reporting framework.  

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  65A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 
(iv)  Valuation and allocation —
assets, liabilities, and equity 
interests are included in the 
financial statements at 
appropriate amounts and any 
resulting valuation or allocation 
adjustments are appropriately 
recorded.  
 
(c)Ass ertions about presentation and 
disclosure:  
 
(i)  Occurrence and rights and 
obligations —disclosed events, 
transactions, and other matters 
have occurred and pertain to the 
entity.  
 
(ii)  Completeness —all disclosures 
that should have been included in 
the fina ncial statements have been 
included.  
 
(iii)  Classification and 
understandability —financial 
information is appropriately 
presented and described, and 
disclosures are clearly expressed.  
 
(iv)  Accuracy and valuation —
financial and other information 
are disclosed fairly and at 
appropriate amounts.  
 
b. Assertio ns about account balances, 
and related disclosures, at the 
period end:  
i. Existence —assets, liabilities, 
and equity interests exist.  
ii. Rights and obligations —the 
entity holds or controls the 
rights to assets, and liabilities 
are the obligations of the 
entity.  
iii. Completeness —all assets, 
liabilities and equity interests 
that should have been recorded 
have been recorded, and all 
related disclosures that should 
have been included in the 
financial statements have been 
included.  
iv. Accuracy, valuation and 
allocation —assets , liabilities, 
and equity interests have been 
included in the financial 
statements at appropriate 
amounts and any resulting 
valuation or allocation 
adjustments have been 
appropriately recorded, and 
related disclosures have been 
appropriately measured and 
described.  
v. Classification —assets, 
liabilities and equity interests 
have been recorded in the 
proper accounts.  
vi. Presentation —assets, liabilities 
and equity interests are 
appropriately aggregated or 
disaggregated and clearly 
described, and related 
disclosures are relevant and 
understandable in the context 
of the requirements of the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework.  

<!-- page 66 -->

66A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 
2014 – A112  
2017 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
The auditor may use the assertions as 
described above or may express them 
differently provided all aspects 
described above have been covered. 
For example, the auditor may choose 
to combine the assertions about 
transactions and events with the 
assertions about account balances.  
 
[No correspondence]  
Heading  [No Correspondence]  Assertions abo ut other disclosures  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A130  
[No Correspondence]  
 
The assertions described in paragraph 
129(a)‒(b) above, adapted as 
appropriate, may also be used by the 
auditor in considering the different 
types of potential misstatements that 
may occur in disclosures not directly 
related to recorded classes of 
transactions, events, or account 
balances. As an example of such a 
disclosure, the entity may be required 
to describe its exposure to risks arising 
from financial instr uments, including 
how the risks arise; the objectives, 
policies and processes for managing 
the risks; and the methods used to 
measure the risks.  
 
2014 – A113  
2017 – A131  
When making assertions about the 
financial statements of public sector 
entities, in addition to those 
assertions set out in paragraph A111 , 
management may often assert that 
transactions and events have been 
carried out in accordance with law, 
regulation or  other authority. Such 
assertions may fall within the scope 
of the financial statement audit.  
 
When making assertions about the 
financial statements of public sector 
entities, in addition to those assertions 
set out in paragraph A129(a) ‒(b), 
management may  often assert that 
transactions and events have been 
carried out in accordance with law, 
regulation or other authority. Such 
assertions may fall within the scope of 
the financial statement audit.  
 
2014 – A114  
2017 – A132  
Information gathered by performing  
risk assessment procedures, including 
the audit evidence obtained in 
evaluating the design of controls and 
determining whether they have been 
implemented, is used as audit 
evidence to support the risk 
assessment. The risk assessment 
Information gathered by performing 
risk assessment procedures, including 
the audit evidence obtained in 
evaluating the design of controls and 
determining whether they have been 
implemented, i s used as audit evidence 
to support the risk assessment. The risk 
assessment determines the nature, 

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  67A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
determines the nature,  timing, and 
extent of further audit procedures to 
be performed.  
timing and extent of further audit 
procedures to be performed. In 
identifying the risks of material 
misstatement in the financial 
statements, the auditor ex ercises 
professional skepticism in accordance 
with SLAuS 200.*  
* SLAuS 200 Overall Objectives of the 
Independent Auditor and the 
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance 
with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards, 
paragraph 15  
 
2014 – A115  
2017 – A133  
Appendix 2 provides examples of 
conditions and events that may 
indicate the existence of risks of 
material misstatement.  
Appendix 2 provides examples of 
conditions and events that may 
indicate the existence of risks of 
material misstatement, including risk s 
of material misstatement relating to 
disclosures. 
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A134  
[No Correspondence]  As explained in SLAuS  320,* 
materiality and audit risk are 
considered when identifying and 
assessing the risks of material 
misstatement in classes of transactions, 
account balances and disclosures. The 
auditor’s determination of materiality 
is a matter of professional judgment , 
and is affected by the auditor’s 
perception of the financial reporting 
needs of users of the financial 
statements.**  
* SLAuS 320, paragraph A1  
** SLAuS 320, paragraph 4  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A135  
[No Correspondence]  The auditor’s conside ration of 
disclosures in the financial statements 
when identifying risks includes 
quantitative and qualitative 
disclosures, the misstatement of which 
could be material (i.e., in general, 
misstatements are considered to be 
material if they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of 
the financial statements as a whole). 
Depending on the circumstances of the 
entity and the engagement, examples 

<!-- page 68 -->

68A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
of disclosures that will have qualitative 
aspects and that may be  relevant when 
assessing the risks of material 
misstatement include disclosures 
about: 
• Liquidity and debt covenants of an 
entity in financial distress.  
• Events or circumstances that have 
led to the recognition of an 
impairment loss.  
• Key sources of estimation 
uncertainty, including assumptions 
about the future.  
• The nature of a change in 
accounting policy, and other 
relevant disclosures required by the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework, where, for example, 
new financial reporting 
requirements a re expected to have 
a significant impact on the 
financial position and financial 
performance of the entity.  
• Share -based payment 
arrangements, including 
information about how any 
amounts recognized were 
determined, and other relevant 
disclosures.  
• Related p arties, and related party 
transactions.  
• Sensitivity analysis, including the 
effects of changes in assumptions 
used in the entity’s valuation 
techniques intended to enable users 
to understand the underlying 
measurement uncertainty of a 
recorded or disclosed  amount . 
 
Heading  [No Correspondence]  Considerations specific to smaller 
entities 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
[No Correspondence]  Disclosures in the financial statements 
of smaller entities may be less detailed 
or less complex (e.g., some financial 

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  69A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
2017 – A136  reporting frameworks allow smaller 
entities to provide fewer disclosures in 
the financial statements). However, 
this does not relieve the auditor of the 
responsibility to obtain an 
understanding of the entity and its 
environment, including i nternal 
control, as it relates to disclosures .   
 
Heading  [No Correspondence]  Material Misstatements  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A139  
[No Correspondence]  Potential misstatements in individual 
statements and disclosures may be 
judged to be material due to size, 
nature or circumstances. (Ref: Para. 
26(d)) 
Appendix 1  (Ref: Paras. 4(c), 14 -24, A69 -A104)  
 
… 
(Ref: Para. 4(c), 14 –24, A77 –A121)  
…. 
Appendix 1  
Para 1  
This appendix further explains the 
components of internal control, as set 
out in paragraphs 4(c), 14 -24 and 
A69-A104 , as they relate to a 
financial statement audit.  
This appendix further explains the 
components of internal control, as set 
out in paragraphs  4(c), 14 –24 and 
A77–A121 , as they relate to a financial 
statement audit.  
 
Appendix 2  (Ref: Para. A33, A115)  
Conditions and Events That May 
Indicate Risks of Material 
Misstatement  
 
The following are examples of 
conditions and events that may 
indicate the existence of risks of 
material misstatement. The examples 
provided cover a broad range of 
conditions and events; however, not 
all conditions and events are relevant 
to every audit engagement and the list 
of examples is not necessarily 
complete . 
 
… 
• Events or transactions that 
involve significant measurement 
uncertainty, including accounting 
estimates.  
(Ref: Para. A41, A133)  
 
Conditions and Events That May 
Indicate Risks of Material 
Misstatement  
 
The following are examples of 
conditions and events that may indicate 
the existence of risks of material  
misstatement in the financial 
statements . The examples provided 
cover a broad range of conditions and 
events; however, not all conditions and 
events a re relevant to every audit 
engagement and the list of examples is 
not necessarily complete.  
 
… 
• Incentives for management and 
employees to engage in fraudulent 
financial reporting.  
… 

<!-- page 70 -->

70A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 
… • Events or transactions that involve 
significant measurement 
uncertainty, i ncluding accounting 
estimates, and related disclosures.  
• Omission, or obscuring, of 
significant information in 
disclosures.   
… 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 320  (SLAus 320  - MATERIALITY IN PLANNING 
AND PERFORMING AN AUDIT ) 
6 In planning the audit, the auditor 
makes judgments about the size of  
misstatements that will be considered 
material. These judgments provide a 
basis for:  
 
(a)  Determining the nature, timing 
and extent  of risk assessment 
procedures;  
 
(b)  Identifying and assessing the risks 
of material misstatement; and  
 
(c)  Determining the nature, timing 
and extent of further audit 
procedures.  
 
The materiality determined when 
planning the audit does not 
necessarily establish an amount 
below which uncorrected 
misstatements, individually or in the 
aggregate, will always be evaluated 
as immaterial. The circumstances 
related to some misstatements may  
cause the auditor to evaluate them as 
material even if they are below 
materiality. Although it  is not 
practicable to design audit procedures 
to detect misstatements that could be 
material solely because of their 
nature , the auditor considers not only 
the size but also the nature of 
uncorrected misstatements, and the 
particular circumstances of their 
occurrence, when evaluating their 
In planning the audit, the auditor 
makes judgments about misstatements 
that will be considered material. These 
judgments provide a basis for:  
 
(a) Determining the nature, timing and 
extent of risk assessment 
procedures;  
 
(b) Identifying and assessing the risks 
of material misstatement; and  
 
(c) Determining the nature, timing and 
extent of further audit procedures.  
 
The materiality determined when 
planning the audit does not necessarily 
establish an amount below which 
uncorrected misstatements, 
individually or in the aggregate, will 
always be eval uated as immaterial. The 
circumstances related to some 
misstatements may cause the auditor to 
evaluate them as material even if they 
are below materiality. It is not 
practicable to design audit procedures 
to detect all misstatements that could 
be material solely because of their 
nature. However, consideration of the 
nature of potential misstatements in 
disclosures is relevant to the design of 
audit procedures to address risks of 
material misstatement.** In addition, 
when evaluating the effect on the 
financi al statements of all uncorrected 
misstatements, the auditor considers 

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  71A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
effect on the financial statements.  * 
* SLAuS 450, paragraph A16.  
not only the size but also the nature of 
uncorrected misstatements, and the 
particular circumstances of their 
occurrence. *** (Ref: Para. A2)    
** See SLAuS 315 (Revised), 
Identifying and Assessing the Risks 
of Material Misstatement through 
Understanding the Entity and its 
Environment, paragraphs A134 –
A135.  
 
*** SLAuS 450, paragraph A21  
 
10 When establishing the overall audit 
strategy, the auditor shall determine 
materiality for the financial 
statements as a whole. If, in the 
specific circumstances of the entity, 
there is one or more particular classes 
of transactions, account balances or 
disclosures for which misstatements 
of lesser amounts than materiality for 
the financial statements as a whole 
could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of the 
financial statements, the auditor shall 
also det ermine the materiality level or 
levels to be applied to those particular 
classes of transactions, account 
balances or disclosures. (Ref: Para. 
A2-A11) 
 
When establishing the overall audit 
strategy, the auditor shall determine 
materiality for the financial statements 
as a whole. If, in the specific 
circumstances of the entity, there is 
one or more particular classes of 
transactions, account balances or 
disclosures for which misstatements of 
lesser amounts than materiality for the 
financial statements as a wh ole could 
reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of the financial statements, 
the auditor shall also determine the 
materiality level or levels to be applied 
to those particular classes of 
transactions, accoun t balances or 
disclosures. (Ref: Para. A3–A12) 
11 The auditor shall determine 
performance materiality for purposes 
of assessing the risks of material 
misstatement and determining the 
nature, timing and extent of further 
audit procedures. (Ref: Para. A12) 
 
The auditor shall determine 
performance materiality for purposes 
of assessing the risks of material 
misstatement and determining the 
nature, timing and extent of further 
audit procedures. (Ref: Para. A13) 
12 The auditor shall revise materiality 
for the financial statements as a 
whole (and, if applicable, the 
materiality level or levels for 
particular classes of transactions, 
account balances or disclosures) in 
the event of becoming aware of 
information during the audit that 
would have caused the auditor to 
have determined a different amount 
The auditor shall revise materiality for 
the financial statements as a whole 
(and, if applicable, the materiality level 
or levels f or particular classes of 
transactions, account balances or 
disclosures) in the event of becoming 
aware of information during the audit 
that would have caused the auditor to 
have determined a different amount (or 
amounts) initially. (Ref: Para. A14) 

<!-- page 72 -->

72A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
(or amounts) initially. (Ref: Para. 
A13) 
 
Sub-Heading  [No Correspondence]  Materiality in the Context of an 
Audit (Ref: Para. 6)  
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A2 
[No Correspondence]  Identifying and assessing the risks of 
material misstatement* involves the 
use of professional judgment to 
identify those classes of transactions, 
account balances and disclosures, 
including qualitative disclosures, the 
misstatement of which could be 
material (i.e., in general, misstatements 
are considered to be material if they 
could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of the financial 
statements as a whole). When 
considering whether misstatements in 
qualitative disclosures could be 
material, the auditor may identify 
relevant factors such as:  
• The circumstances of the entity for 
the period (for example, the entity 
may have undertaken a significant 
business combination during the 
period).  
• The applicable financial reporting 
framework, including changes 
therein (for example, a new 
financial reporting standard may 
require new qualitative disclosures 
that are significant to the entity).  
• Qualitative disclosures that are 
important to users of the financial 
statements because of the nature of 
an entity (for example, liquidity risk 
disclosures may be important to 
users of the financial statements for 
a financial institution).  
 
* SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 25, 
requires the auditor to identify and 
assess the risk of material 
misstatement at the financial statement 
and assertion level.  

<!-- page 73 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  73A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 
 
2014 – A10 
2017 – A11 
 
Factors that may indicate the 
existence of one or more particular 
classes of transactions, account 
balances or disclosures for which 
misstatements of lesser amounts than 
materiality for the financial statements 
as a whole could reasonably be 
expected to in fluence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis 
of the financial statements include the 
following:  
 
• Whether law, regulation or the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework affect users’ 
expectations regarding the 
measurement or disclosure of 
certain items (for example, 
related party transactions, and the 
remuneration of management and 
those charged with governance).  
 
• The key disclosures in relation to 
the industry in which the entity 
operates (for example, research 
and development costs for a 
pharmaceutical company).  
 
• Whether attention is focused on a 
particular aspect of the entity’s 
business that is separately 
disclosed in the financial 
statements (for example, a newly 
acquired business ). 
 
 
 
Factors that may indicate the existence 
of one or more particular classes of 
transactions, account balances or 
disclosures for which misstatements of 
lesser amounts than materiality for the 
financial statements as a whole could 
reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of the financial statements 
include the following:  
 
• Whether law, regulation or the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework affect users’ 
expectations regarding the 
measurement or disclosure of 
certain items ( for example, related 
party transactions, the 
remunerat ion of management and 
those charged with governance, 
and sensitivity analysis for fair 
value accounting estimates with 
high estimation uncertainty ).  
 
• The key disclosures in relation to 
the industry in which the entity 
operates (for example, research and 
development costs for a 
pharmaceutical company).  
 
• Whether attention is focused on a 
particular aspect of the entity’s 
business that is separately 
disclosed in the financial 
statements ( for example, 
disclosures about segments or a 
significant b usiness combination ). 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 330  (SLAuS 330  - THE AUDITOR’S RESPONSES 
TO ASSESSED RISKS ) 
20 (a)  Agreeing or reconciling the financial 
statements with the underlying 
accounting records; and  
Agreeing or reconciling information in 
the financial statements with the 
underlying accounting records, 
including agreeing or reconciling 
information in disclosures, whether 

<!-- page 74 -->

74A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
such information is obtained from 
within or outside of the general and 
subsidiary ledgers; and  
 
Sub-heading  Adequacy of Presentation and 
Disclosure  
Adequacy of Presentation of the 
Financial Statements  
 
24 The auditor shall perform audit 
procedures to evaluate whether the 
overall presentation of the financial 
statements , including the related 
disclosures, is in accordance with the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework. (Ref: Para. A59)  
The auditor shall perform audit 
procedures to evaluate whether the 
overall presentation of the financial 
statements is in accordance with the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework.  In making this evaluation, 
the auditor shall consider whether the 
financ ial statements are presented in a 
manner that reflects the appropriate:  
• Classification and description of 
financial information and the 
underlying transactions, events and 
conditions; and  
• Presentation, structure and content 
of the financial statements.  (Ref: 
Para. A59)  
 
30 The auditor’s documentation shall 
demonstrate that the financial 
statements agree or reconcile with the 
underlying accounting records.  
The auditor’s documentation shall 
demonstrate that information in the 
financial statements agrees or 
reconciles with the underlying 
accounting records, including agreeing 
or reconciling disclosures, whether 
such information is obtained from 
within or outsi de of the general and 
subsidiary ledgers.  
  
A1 … 
• Emphasizing to the audit  team the 
need to maintain professional 
skepticism.  
… 
… 
• Emphasizing to the engagement  
team the need to maintain 
professional skepticism.  
… 
 
A13 … 
• Agreeing the financial statements 
to the accounting records;  
… 
… 
• Agreeing or reconciling 
information in the financial 
statements with the underlying 
accounting records, including 
agreeing or reconciling disclosures, 

<!-- page 75 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  75A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
whether such information is 
obtained from within or outside of 
the general and subsidiary ledgers;  
… 
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A14 
[No Correspondence]  … 
• The timing of the preparation of 
the financial statements, 
particularly for those disclosures 
that provide further explanation 
about amounts recorded in the 
statement of financial position, the 
statement of comprehensive 
income, the statement of changes 
in equity or the statement of cash 
flows.  
… 
 
A51 … 
Substantive Procedures Related to the 
Financial Statement Closing Process 
(Ref: Para. 20(b)).  
… 
Substantive Procedures Related to the 
Financial Statement Closing Process 
(Ref: Para. 20 )  
 
A52 The nature, and also the extent, of the 
auditor’s examination of journal 
entries and other adjustments  depends 
on the nature and complexity of the 
entity’s financial reporting process 
and the related risks of material 
misstatement.  
The nature, and also the extent, of the 
auditor’s substantive procedures related 
to the financial statement closing 
process  depends on the nature and 
complexity of the entity’s financial 
reporting process and the related risks 
of material misstatement.  
 
Sub Heading  Adequacy of Presentation and 
Disclosure  (Ref: Para. 24)  
 
Adequacy of Presentation of the 
Financial Statements  (Ref: Para. 24)  
 
A59 Evaluating the overall presentation of 
the financial statements, including the 
related disclosures, relates to whether 
the individual financial statements are 
presented in a manner that reflects the 
appropriate classificati on and 
description of financial information, 
and the form, arrangement, and 
content of the financial statements and 
their appended notes. This includes, 
for example, the terminology used, the 
amount of detail given, the 
classification of items in the 
Evaluating the appropriate 
presentation, arrangement and content 
of the financial statements includes, for 
example, consideration of the 
terminology used as required by the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework , the level of detail provided, 
the aggregation and disaggregation of 
amounts and the bases of amounts set 
forth.  
 

<!-- page 76 -->

76A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
state ments, and the bases of amounts 
set forth.  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 402  (SLAuS 402  - AUDIT CONSIDERATIONS 
RELATING TO AN ENTITY USING A SERVICE ORGANIZATION ) 
No Changes  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 450  (SLAuS 450  - EVALUATION OF 
MISSTATEMENTS IDENTIFIED DURING THE AUDIT ) 
4 (a)  Misstatement – A difference between 
the amount, classification, 
presentation, or disclosure of a 
reported  financial statement item and 
the amount, classification, 
presentation, or disclosure that is 
required for the item to be in 
accordance with the applic able 
financial reporting framework. 
Misstatements can arise from error or 
fraud. (Ref: Para. A1)  
… 
 
Misstatement – A difference between 
the reported  amount, classification, 
presentation, or disclosure of a 
financial statement item and the 
amount, classifi cation, presentation, or 
disclosure that is required for the item 
to be in accordance with the applicable 
financial reporting framework. 
Misstatements can arise from error or 
fraud. (Ref: Para. A1)  
… 
5 The auditor shall accumulate 
misstatements identified during the 
audit, other than those that are clearly 
trivial. (Ref: Para. A2-A3) 
 
The auditor shall accumulate 
misstatements identified during the 
audit, other than those that are clearly 
trivial. (Ref: Para. A2–A6) 
 
6 The auditor shall determine whether 
the overall audit strategy and audit 
plan need to be revised if:  
 
(a)  The nature of identified 
misstatements and the 
circumstances of their occurrence 
indicate that other misstatements 
may exist that, when aggregated 
with misstatements accumulated 
during the audit, could be 
material; or (Ref: Para. A4) 
 
(b)  The aggregate of misstatements 
accumulated during the audit 
approaches materiality 
determined in accordance with 
SLAuS 320. (Ref: Para. A5) 
 
The auditor shall determine whether 
the overall audit strategy and audit plan 
need to be revised if:  
(a) The nature  of identified 
misstatements and the 
circumstances of their occurrence 
indicate that other misstatements 
may exist that, when aggregated 
with misstatements accumulated 
during the audit, could be material; 
or (Ref: Para. A7) 
(b) The aggregate of misstatemen ts 
accumulated during the audit 
approaches materiality determined 
in accordance with SLAuS 320. 
(Ref: Para. A8)  
 
7 If, at the auditor’s request, 
management has examined a class of 
If, at the auditor’s request, 
management has examined a class of 

<!-- page 77 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  77A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
transactions, account balance or 
disclosure and corrected 
misstatements that were detected, the 
auditor shall perform additional audit 
procedures to determine whether 
misstatements remain. (R ef: Para. A6) 
 
transactions, account balance or 
disclosure and corrected misstatements 
that were detected, the auditor shall 
perform additional audit procedures to 
determine whether misstatem ents 
remain.  (Ref: Para. A9) 
8 The auditor shall communicate on a 
timely basis all misstatements 
accumulated during the audit with the 
appropriate level of management, 
unless prohibited by law or regulation. 
The auditor shall request management 
to correct  those misstatements. (Ref: 
Para. A7 -A9) 
 
The auditor shall communicate on a 
timely basis all misstatements 
accumulated during the audit with the 
appropriate level of management, 
unless prohibited by law or regulation. 
The auditor shall request management 
to correct those misstatements. (Ref: 
Para. A10–A12) 
 
9 If management refuses to correct 
some or all of the misstatements 
communicated by the auditor, the 
auditor shall obtain an understanding 
of management’s reasons for not 
making the correcti ons and shall take 
that understanding into account when 
evaluating whether the financial 
statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement. (Ref: Para. 
A10) 
If management refuses to correct some 
or all of the misstatements 
communicated by the audit or, the 
auditor shall obtain an understanding of 
management’s reasons for not making 
the corrections and shall take that 
understanding into account when 
evaluating whether the financial 
statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement. (Ref: Para.  A13) 
 
10 Prior to evaluating the effect of 
uncorrected misstatements, the auditor 
shall reassess materiality determined 
in accordance with SLAuS 320 to 
confirm whether it remains 
appropriate in the context of the 
entity’s actual financial results. (Ref: 
Para. A11-A12) 
Prior to evaluating the effect of 
uncorrected misstatements, the auditor 
shall reassess materiality determined in 
accordance with SLAuS 320 to confirm 
whether it remains appropriate in the 
context of the entity’s actual financial 
results. (Ref: Para. A14–A15) 
 
11 The auditor shall determine whether 
uncorrected misstatements are 
material, individually or in aggregate. 
In making this determination, the 
auditor shall consider:  
 
(a)  The size and nature of the 
misstatements, both in relation to 
particular classes of transactions, 
account balances or disclosures 
and the financial statements as a 
whole, and the particular 
circumstances of their occurrence; 
The auditor shall determine whether 
uncorrected misstatements are material, 
individually or in aggregate. In making 
this determination, the auditor shall 
consider:  
(a) The size and nature of the 
misstatements, both in relation to 
particular classes of transactions, 
account balances or disclosures 
and the financial statem ents as a 
whole, and the particular 

<!-- page 78 -->

78A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
and (Ref: Para. A13-A17, A19 -
A20) 
 
(b)  The effect of unco rrected 
misstatements related to prior 
periods on the relevant classes of 
transactions, account balances or 
disclosures, and the financial 
statements as a whole. (Ref: Para. 
A18) 
 
circumstances of their occurrence; 
and (Ref: Para. A16–A22, A24 –
A25) 
(b) The effect of uncorrected 
misstatements related to prior 
periods on the relevant classes of 
transactions, account balances or 
disclosures, and the financial 
statements as a whole. (Ref: Para. 
A23)  
12 The auditor shall communicate with 
those charged with governance 
uncorrected misstatements and the 
effect that they, individually or in 
aggregate, may have on the opinion in 
the auditor’s report, unless prohibited 
by law or regulation. The auditor’s 
commun ication shall identify material 
uncorrected misstatements 
individually. The auditor shall request 
that uncorrected misstatements be 
corrected. (Ref: Para. A21-A23) 
 
The auditor shall communicate with 
those charged with governance 
uncorrected misstatements and the 
effect that they, individually or in 
aggregate, may have on the opinion in 
the auditor’s report, unless prohibited 
by law or regulation. The auditor’s 
communication shall identify material 
uncorrected misstatements individually. 
The auditor shall r equest that 
uncorrected misstatements be 
corrected. (Ref: Para. A26–A28) 
14 The auditor shall request a written 
representation from management and, 
where appropriate, those charged with 
governance whether they believe the 
effects of uncorrected misstateme nts 
are immaterial, individually and in 
aggregate, to the financial statements 
as a whole. A summary of such items 
shall be included in or attached to the 
written representation. (Ref: Para. 
A24). 
 
The auditor shall request a written 
representation from ma nagement and, 
where appropriate, those charged with 
governance whether they believe the 
effects of uncorrected misstatements 
are immaterial, individually and in 
aggregate, to the financial statements 
as a whole. A summary of such items 
shall be included in  or attached to the 
written representation. (Ref: Para. A29 ) 
 
15 The auditor shall include in the audit 
documentation: (Ref: Para. A25 ) 
… 
The auditor shall include in the audit 
documentation: (Ref: Para. A30 ) 
… 
 
A1 Misstatements may result from:  
 
(a)  An inaccuracy in gathering or 
processing data from which the 
financial statements are prepared;  
 
(b)  An omission of an amount or 
disclosure;  
 
Misstatements may result from:  
 
(a) An inaccuracy in gathering or 
processing data from which the 
financial statements are prepared;  
 
(b) An omission of an amount or 
disclosure, including inadequate or 
incomplete disclosures, and those 

<!-- page 79 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  79A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
(c)  An incorrect accounting estimate 
arising from overlooking, or clear 
misinterpretation of, facts; and 
 
(d)  Judgments of management 
concerning accounting estimates 
that the auditor considers 
unreasonable or the selection and 
application of  accounting policies 
that the auditor considers 
inappropriate.  
 
disclosures required to meet 
disclosure objectives of certain 
financial reporting frameworks as 
applicable;*  
 
(c) An incorrect accounting estimate 
arising from overlooking, or clear 
misinterpretatio n of, facts;  
 
(d)  Judgments of management 
concerning accounting estimates 
that the auditor considers 
unreasonable or the selection and 
application of accounting policies 
that the auditor considers 
inappropriate.  
 
(e)  An inappropriate classification, 
aggregation or disaggregation, of 
information; and  
 
(f)    For financial statements prepared 
in accordance with a fair 
presentation framework, the 
omission of a disclosure necessary 
for the financial statements to 
achieve fair presentation beyond 
disclosures s pecifically required by 
the framework.**  
 
Examples of misstatements arising 
from fraud are provided in SLAuS 
240.*** 
 
* For example, Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standard 7 (SLFRS), Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures , 
paragraph 42H states that “an 
entity shall disclose any additional 
information that it considers 
necessary to meet the disclosure 
objectives in paragraph…”  
 
**  For example, SLFRS requires an 
entity to provide additional 
disclosures when compliance with 
the specific requirements in 
SLFRS is i nsufficient to enable 

<!-- page 80 -->

80A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
users to understand the impact of 
particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the 
entity’s financial position and 
financial performance (Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standard 1, 
Presentation of Financial 
Statements, paragraph 17(c )). 
 
*** SLAuS 240, The Auditor’s 
Responsibilities Relating to Fraud 
in an Audit of Financial 
Statements , paragraphs A1 –A6 
 
A2  
 
The auditor may designate an amount 
below which misstatements would be 
clearly trivial and would not need to 
be accumulated because the auditor 
expects that the accumulation of such 
amounts clearly would not have a 
material effect on the financial 
statemen ts. “Clearly trivial” is not 
another expression for “not material.” 
Matters that are clearly trivial will be 
of a wholly different (smaller) order 
of magnitude than materiality 
determined in accordance with SLAuS 
320, and will be matters that are 
clearly i nconsequential, whether taken 
individually or in aggregate and 
whether judged by any criteria of size, 
nature or circumstances. When there 
is any uncertainty about whether one 
or more items are clearly trivial, the 
matter is considered not to be clearly 
trivial.   
 
“Clearly Trivial”  
Paragraph 5 of this SLAuS  requires the 
auditor to accumulate misstatements 
identified during the audit other than 
those that are clearly trivial. “Clearly 
trivial” is not another expression for 
“not material.” Misstatements that are 
clearly trivial will be of a wholly 
different (s maller) order of magnitude, 
or of a wholly different nature than 
those that would be determined to be 
material, and will be misstatements that 
are clearly inconsequential, whether 
taken individually or in aggregate and 
whether judged by any criteria of siz e, 
nature or circumstances. When there is 
any uncertainty about whether one or 
more items are clearly trivial, the 
misstatement is considered not to be 
clearly trivial.  
 
Heading  [No Correspondence]  Misstatements in Individual Statements  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 - A3 
[No Correspondence]  The auditor may designate an amount 
below which misstatements of amounts 
in the individual statements would be 
clearly trivial, and would not need to 
be accumulated because the auditor 
expects that the accumulation of such 
amounts clearly would not have a 
material effect on the financial 

<!-- page 81 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  81A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
statements. However, misstatements of 
amounts that are above the designated 
amount are accumulated as required by 
paragraph 5 of this SLAuS. In addition, 
misstatements relating to amounts may 
not be clearly trivial when judged on 
criteria of nature or circumstances, 
and, if not, are accumulated as required 
by paragraph 5 of this SLAuS.  
 
Heading  [No Correspondence]  Misstatements in Disclosures  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A4 
[No Correspondence]  Misstatements in disclosures may also 
be clearly trivial whether taken 
individually or in aggregate, and 
whether judged by any criteria of size, 
nature or circumstances. Misstatements 
in disclosures that are not clearly 
trivial are also accumulated to assi st 
the auditor in evaluating the effect of 
such misstatements on the relevant 
disclosures and the financial statements 
as a whole. Paragraph A17 of this 
SLAuS provides examples of where 
misstatements in qualitative disclosures 
may be material.   
Heading  [No Correspondence]  Accumulation of Misstatements  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A5 
[No Correspondence]  Misstatements by nature or 
circumstances, accumulated as 
described in paragraphs A3‒A4, cannot 
be added together as is possible in the 
case of misstatements of amounts. 
Nevertheless, the auditor is required by 
paragraph 11 of this SLAuS to evaluate 
those m isstatements individually and in 
aggregate (i.e., collectively with other 
misstatements) to determine whether 
they are material.  
 
2014 – A3 
2017 – A6 
… 
• Judgmental misstatements are 
differences arising from the 
judgments of management 
concerning accounting estimates 
that the auditor considers 
unreasonable, or the selection or 
application of accounting policies 
… 
• Judgmental misstatements are 
differences arising from the 
judgments of management 
including those concerning 
recognition, measurement, 
presentation and disclosure in the 

<!-- page 82 -->

82A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
that the auditor considers 
inappropriate . 
 
… 
financial statements (including the 
selection or application of 
accounting policies) that the 
auditor considers unreasonable or 
inappropriate.  
… 
 
2014 – A7 
2017 – A10 
Timely communication of 
misstatements to the appropriate level 
of management is important as it 
enables management to evaluate 
whether the items are misstatements , 
inform the auditor if it disagrees, and 
take action as necessary. Ordinarily, 
the appropriat e level of management 
is the one that has responsibility and 
authority to evaluate the 
misstatements and to take the 
necessary action.  
 
Timely communication of 
misstatements to the appropriate level 
of management is important as it 
enables management to ev aluate 
whether the classes of transactions , 
account balances and disclosures are 
misstated, inform the auditor if it 
disagrees, and take action as necessary. 
Ordinarily, the appropriate level of 
management is the one that has 
responsibility and authority to evaluate 
the misstatements and to take t he 
necessary action.   
 
2014 – A13 
2017 – A16 
Each individual misstatement is 
considered to evaluate its effect on 
the relevant classes of transactions, 
account balances or disclosures, 
including whether the materiality 
level for that particular class of 
transactions, account balance or 
disclosure, if any, has been exceeded.  
 
Each individual misstatement of an 
amount  is considered to evaluate its 
effect on the relevant classes of 
transactions, account balances or 
disclosures, including whether the  
materiality level for that particular 
class of transactions, account balance 
or disclosure, if any, has been 
exceeded.  
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A17 
[No correspondence]  In addition, each individual 
misstatement of a qualitative disclosure 
is considered to evaluate its effect on 
the relevant disclosure(s), as well as its 
overall effect on the financial 
statements as a whole. The 
determination of whether a 
misstatement(s) i n a qualitative 
disclosure is material, in the context of 
the applicable financial reporting 
framework and the specific 
circumstances of the entity, is a matter 
that involves the exercise of 
professional judgment. Examples 
where such misstatements may be 
material include:  
• Inaccurate or incomplete 

<!-- page 83 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  83A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
descriptions of information about 
the objectives, policies and 
processes for managing capital for 
entities with insurance and banking 
activities.  
• The omission of information about 
the events or circumstances that 
have led to an impairment loss 
(e.g., a significant long -term 
decline in the demand for a metal 
or commodity) in an entity with 
mining operations.  
• The incorrect description of an 
accounting policy relating to a 
significant item in the statement of 
financia l position, the statement of 
comprehensive income, the 
statement of changes in equity or 
the statement of cash flows.   
• The inadequate description of the 
sensitivity of an exchange rate in 
an entity that undertakes 
international trading activities.   
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A18 
[No Correspondence]  In determining whether uncorrected 
misstatements by nature are material as 
required by paragraph 11 of this 
SLAuS, the auditor considers 
uncorrected misstatements in amounts 
and disclosures. Such  misstatements 
may be considered material either 
individually, or when taken in 
combination with other misstatements. 
For example, depending on the 
misstatements identified in disclosures, 
the auditor may consider whether:  
(a) Identified errors are persistent or 
pervasive; or  
(b) A number of identified 
misstatements are relevant to the 
same matter, and considered 
collectively may affect the users’ 
understanding of that matter.  
This consideration of accumulated 
misstatements is also helpful when 

<!-- page 84 -->

84A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
evaluating the finan cial statements in 
accordance with paragraph 13(d) of 
SLAuS 700 (Revised), which requires 
the auditor to consider whether the 
overall presentation of the financial 
statements has been undermined by 
including information that is not 
relevant or that obscure s a proper 
understanding of the matters disclosed.  
 
2014 – A16 
2017 – A21  
… 
 
• Affects other information that 
will be communicated in 
documents containing the audited 
financial statements  (for example, 
information to be included in a 
“Management Discussion and 
Analysis” or an “Operating and 
Financial Review”) that may 
reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions 
of the users of the financial 
statements. SLAuS 720 * deals 
with the auditor’s consideration 
of other information, on which 
the auditor has no obligation to 
report, in documents containing 
audited financial statements.  
 
… 
* SLAuS  720, The Auditor’s 
Responsibilities Relating to Other 
Information in Documents 
Containing Audited Financial 
Statements  
 
… 
• Affects other information to be 
included in the entity’s annual 
report  (for example, information to 
be included in a “Management 
Discussion and Analysis” or an 
“Operating and Financial Review”) 
that may reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions 
of the users of the financial 
statements. SLAuS 720 (Revised) ** 
deals with the auditor’s 
responsibilities relating to other 
information.  
… 
 
** SLAuS 720 (Revised), The 
Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating 
to Other Information  
 
2014 – A17 
2017 – A22  
SLAuS  240 explains how the 
implications of a misstatement that is, 
or may be, the result of fraud ought to 
be considered in relation to other 
aspects of the audit, even if the size of 
the misstatement is not material in 
relation to the financial statements.  
 
SLAuS 240 explains how the 
implications of a misstatement that is, 
or may be, the result of fraud ought to 
be considered in relation to other 
aspects of the audit, even if the size of 
the misstatement is not material in 
relation to the financial statements. 
Depending on the circumstances, 
misstatements in disclosures could also 
be indicative of fraud, and, for 
example, may arise from:  

<!-- page 85 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  85A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
• Misleading disclosures that have 
resulted from bias in 
management’s judgments; or  
• Extensive duplicative or 
uninformative discl osures that are 
intended to obscure a proper 
understanding of matters in the 
financial statements.   
When considering the implications of 
misstatements in classes of 
transactions, account balances and 
disclosures, the auditor exercises 
professional skeptic ism in accordance 
with SLAuS 200. * 
* SLAuS 200, paragraph 15  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 500  (SLAuS 500  - AUDIT EVIDENCE ) 
 
5 (c)  Audit evidence – Information used by 
the auditor in arriving at the 
conclusions on which the auditor’s 
opinion is based. Audit evidence 
includes both information contained 
in the accounting records underlying 
the financial statements and other 
information.  
Audit evidence – Information used by 
the auditor in arriving at the 
conclusions on which the auditor’s 
opinion is based. Audit evidence 
includes both information contained in 
the accounting records underlying the 
financial statements and information 
obtain ed from other sources.  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 501  (SLAuS 501  - AUDIT EVIDENCE —SPECIFIC 
CONSIDERATIONS FOR SELECTED ITEMS ) 
 
11 If: 
 
(a)  management refuses to give the 
auditor permission to 
communicate or meet with the 
entity’s external legal counsel, or 
the entity’s external legal counsel 
refuses to respond appropriately 
to the letter of inquiry, or is 
prohibited from responding; and  
 
(b)  the auditor is unable to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence by performing 
alternative audit procedures, the 
auditor shall modify the opinion 
If:  
(a) management refuses to give the 
auditor pe rmission to communicate 
or meet with the entity’s external 
legal counsel, or the entity’s 
external legal counsel refuses to 
respond appropriately to the letter 
of inquiry, or is prohibited from 
responding; and  
(b)  the auditor is unable to obtain 
sufficie nt appropriate audit 
evidence by performing alternative 
audit procedures,  
the auditor shall modify the opinion in 

<!-- page 86 -->

86A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
in the auditor’s report in 
accordance with SLAuS 705.  
 
the auditor’s report in accordance with 
SLAuS 705 (Revised).  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 505  (SLAuS  505 - EXTERNAL CONFIRMATIONS)  
No changes  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 510  (SLAuS 510  - INITIAL AUDIT 
ENGAGEMENTS —OPENING BALANCES ) 
Appendix  (Ref: Para. A8)  
 
Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports 
with Modified Opinions  
 
Illustration 1:  
 
Circumstances described in 
paragraph A8(a) include the 
following:  
 
• The auditor did not observe 
the counting of the physical 
inventory at the beginning 
of the current period and 
was unable to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence regarding the 
openin g balances of 
inventory.  
 
• The possible effects of the 
inability to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence 
regarding opening balances 
of inventory are deemed to 
be material but not 
pervasive to the entity’s 
financial performance and 
cash flows. 1 
 
• The financial position at 
year end is fairly presented.  
 
• In this particular 
jurisdiction, law and 
regulation prohibit the 
auditor from giving an 
opinion which is qualified 
regarding the financial 
(Ref: Para. A8)  
Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports 
with Modified Opinions  
Note:  Throughout these illustrative 
auditor’s reports, the Opinion section 
has been positioned first in accordance 
with SLAuS 700 (Revised), and the 
Basis for Opinion section is positioned 
immediately after the Opinion section. 
Also, the first and last sentence that 
was included in the extant auditor’s 
responsibilities section is now 
subsumed as part of the new Basis for 
Opinion section.  
Illustration1:  
For purposes of this illustrative 
auditor’s report, the following 
circumstances  are assumed:  
• Audit of a complet e set of 
financial statements of an 
entity other than a listed 
entity using a fair 
presentation framework. The 
audit is not a group audit (i.e., 
SLAuS 600 13 does not apply).  
• The financial statements are 
prepared by management of 
the entity in accordance wi th 
Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards (a general purpose 
framework).  
• The terms of the audit 
engagement reflect the 

<!-- page 87 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  87A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
performance and cash flows 
and unmodified regarding 
financia l position.  
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S 
REPORT  
 
[Appropriate Addressee]  
 
Report on the Financial 
Statements 2 
 
We have audited the accompanying 
financial statements of ABC 
Company, which comprise the 
statement of financial position as at 
December 31, 20X1, and the 
statement of comprehensive income, 
statement of changes in equity and 
statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of 
significant accounting policies and 
other explanatory information.  
 
Management’s 3 Responsibility for the 
Financial Statements  
 
Management is responsible for the 
preparation and fair presentation of 
these financial statemen ts in 
accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards, 4 and for such 
internal control as management 
determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of financial statements 
that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error.  
 
Auditor’s Responsibility  
 
Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these financial statements 
based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Auditing Standards. Those standards 
require that we comply with ethical 
requirements  and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable 
description of management’s 
responsibility for the financial 
statements in SLAuS 210. 14 
• The auditor did not observe 
the counting of the physical 
inventory at the beginning of 
the current period and was 
unable to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the opening 
balances of inventory.  
• The possible effects of the 
inability to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence 
regarding opening balances of 
inventory are deemed to be 
material but not pervasive to 
the entity’s financial 
performance and cash flows. 15  
• The financial position at year 
end is fairly presented.  
• In this particular jurisdiction, 
law and regulation prohibit 
the auditor from giving an 
opinion which is qualified 
regarding the financial 
performance and cash flows 
and unmodified regarding 
financial position.  
• The relevant  ethical 
requirements that apply to 
the audit are those of the 
jurisdictio n. 
• Based on the audit evidence 
obtained, the auditor has 
concluded that a material 
uncertainty does not exist 
related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant 
doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in 
accordance with SLAuS 57 0 

<!-- page 88 -->

88A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free from material 
misstatement.  
 
An audit involves performing 
procedures to obtain audit evidence 
about the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements. The 
procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgment, including the 
assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or 
error. In making those risk 
assessments, the auditor considers 
interna l control relevant to the 
entity’s preparation and fair 
presentation 5 of the financial 
statements in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose 
of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the en tity’s internal 
control. 6 An audit also includes 
evaluating the appropriateness of 
accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting 
estimates made by management, as 
well as evaluating the overall 
presentation of the financial 
statements.  
 
We b elieve that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our 
qualified audit opinion.  
 
Basis for Qualified Opinion  
 
We were appointed as auditors of the 
company on June 30, 20X1 and thus 
did not observe the counting of the 
physical inventories at the beginning 
of the year. We were unable to satisfy 
ourselves by alternative means 
concerning inventory quantities held 
at D ecember 31, 20X0. Since opening 
inventories enter into the 
determination of the financial 
performance and cash flows, we were 
(Revised). 16 
• The auditor is not required, 
and has otherwise not 
decided, to communicate key 
audit matters in accordance 
with SLAuS 701. 17 
• The auditor has obtained all 
of the other information prior 
to the date of the auditor's 
report and has not identifi ed 
a material misstatement of the 
other information.  
• Corresponding figures are 
presented, and the prior 
period’s financial statements 
were audited by a predecessor 
auditor. The auditor is not 
prohibited by law or 
regulation from referring to 
the predecesso r auditor’s 
report on the corresponding 
figures and has decided to do 
so. 
• Those responsible for 
oversight of the financial 
statements differ from those 
responsible for the 
preparation of the financial 
statements.  
• In addition to the audit of the 
financial s tatements, the 
auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities required 
under local law.  
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S 
REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company 
[or Other Appropriate Addressee]  

<!-- page 89 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  89A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
unable to determine whether 
adjustments might have been 
necessary in respect of the profit for 
the year reported in the statement of 
comprehensive income and the net 
cash flows from operating activities 
reported in the statement of cash 
flows.  
 
Qualified Opinion  
 
In our opinion, except for the possible 
effects of the matter described in the 
Basis for Qualified Opinion 
paragraph, the  financial statements 
present fairly, in all material respects, 
(or give a true and fair view of ) the 
financial position of ABC Company 
as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its 
financial performance and its cash 
flows for the year then ended in 
accordance wit h Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards.  
 
Other Matter  
 
The financial statements of ABC 
Company for the year ended 
December 31, 20X0 were audited by 
another auditor who expressed an 
unmodified opinion on those 
statements on March 31, 20X1.  
 
Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements  
 
[Form and content of this section of 
the auditor’s report will vary 
depending on the nature of the 
auditor’s other reporting 
responsibilities.]  
 
[Auditor’s signature]  
 
[Date of the auditor’s report]  
 
[Auditor’s address]  
 
 
 
Report on the Audit of the Financial 
Statements 18 
 
Qualified Opinion  
We have audited the financial 
statements of ABC Company (the 
Company), which comprise the 
statement of financial position as at 
December 31, 20X1, and the statement 
of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of 
cash flows  for the year then ended, and 
notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant 
accounting policies.  
In our opinion, except for the possible 
effects of the matter described in the 
Basis for Qualified Opinion section of 
our report, the accompanying financial 
statements present fairly, in all 
material respects, (or give a true and 
fair view of ) the financial position of 
the Company as at December 31, 
20X1, and (of) its financial 
performance and its cash flows fo r the 
year then ended in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards 
(SLFRSs).  
Basis for Qualified Opinion  
We were appointed as auditors of the 
company on June 30, 20X1 and thus 
did not observe the counting of the 
physical inventories at the beginning 
of the year. We were unable to satisfy 
ourselves by alternative means 
concerning inventory quantities held at 
December 31, 20X0. Since opening 
inventories enter into the determination 
of the financial performance and cash 
flows, we were unable to determine 
whether adjustments might have been 
necessary in respect of the profit for 
the year reported in the statement of 

<!-- page 90 -->

90A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
Illustration 2:  
 
Circumstances described in 
paragraph A8(b) include the 
following:  
 
• The auditor did not observe the 
counting of the physical 
inventory at the beginning of 
the current period and was 
unable to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the opening balances 
of inventory.  
 
• The possible effects of the 
inability to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence 
regarding opening balances of 
inventory are deemed to be 
material but not pervasive to 
the entity’s financial 
perfo rmance and cash flows. 7 
 
• The financial position at year 
end is fairly presented.  
 
• An opinion that is qualified 
regarding the financial 
performance and cash flows 
and unmodified regarding 
financial position is considered 
appropriate in the 
circumstances.  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S 
REPORT  
 
[Appropriate Addressee]  
 
Report on the Financial 
Statements 8 
 
We have audited the accompanying 
comprehensive income and the net 
cash flows from operating activities 
reported in the statement of cash flows.  
We conducted our audit in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards 
(SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further descri bed in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Financial Statements  
section of our report. We are 
independent of the Company in 
accordance with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our 
audit of the financial statements in 
[jurisdiction ], and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our 
qualified opinion.  
Other Matter  
The financial s tatements of the 
Company for the year ended December 
31, 20X0 were audited by another 
auditor who expressed an unmodified 
opinion on those statements on March 
31, 20X1.  
Other Information [or another title 
if appropriate such as “Information 
Other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon”]  
[Reporting in accordance with the 
reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 
(Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised) .] 
Responsibilities of Management and 
Those Charged with Governance for 
the Financial Statements 19 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 
700 (Revised) 20 – see Illustration 1 in 

<!-- page 91 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  91A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
financial statements of ABC 
Company, which comprise the 
statement of financial position as at 
December 31, 20X1, and the 
statement of comprehensive income, 
statement of changes in equity and 
statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of 
significant accounting policies and 
other explanatory information.  
 
Management’s 9 Responsibility for the 
Financial Statements  
 
Management is responsible for the 
preparation and fair presentation of 
these financial statemen ts in 
accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards, 10 and for such 
internal control as management 
determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of financial statements 
that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error.  
 
Auditor’s Responsibility  
 
Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these financial statements 
based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Auditing Standards. Those standards 
require that we comply with ethical 
requirements  and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free from material 
misstatement.  
 
An audit involves performing 
procedures to obtain audit evidence 
about the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements. The 
procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgment, including the 
assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or 
error. In making those risk 
SLAuS 700 (Revised ).] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Financial 
Statements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 
700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
SLAuS 700 (Revised ).] 
Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 
700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
SLAuS 700 (Revised ).] 
[Signature in t he name of the audit 
firm, the personal name of the auditor, 
or both, as appropriate for the 
particular jurisdiction ] 
[Auditor Address ]  
[Date] 
 
Illustration 2:  
For purposes of this illustrative 
auditor’s report, the following 
circumstances are assumed:  
• Audit of a complete set of 
financial statements of an 
entity other than a listed entity 
using a fair presentation 
framework. The audit is not a 
group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 
does not apply).  
• The financial statements are 
prepared by management of 
the entity in accordance with 
SLFRSs (a general purpose 
framework).  
• The terms of the audit 
engagement reflect the 
description of management’s 

<!-- page 92 -->

92A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
assessments, the auditor considers 
interna l control relevant to the 
entity’s preparation and fair 
presentation 11 of the financial 
statements in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose 
of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the e ntity’s internal 
control. 12 An audit also includes 
evaluating the appropriateness of 
accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting 
estimates made by management, as 
well as evaluating the overall 
presentation of the financial 
statements.  
 
We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our 
unmodified opinion on the financial 
position and our qualified audit 
opinion on the financial performance 
and cash flows.  
 
Basis for Qualified Opinio n on the 
Financial Performance and Cash 
Flows  
 
We were appointed as auditors of the 
company on June 30, 20X1 and thus 
did not observe the counting of the 
physical inventories at the beginning 
of the year. We were unable to satisfy 
ourselves by alternative means 
concerning inventory quantities held 
at D ecember 31, 20X0. Since opening 
inventories enter into the 
determination of the financial 
performance and cash flows, we were 
unable to determine whether 
adjustments might have been 
necessary in respect of the profit for 
the year reported in the statement of 
comprehensive income and the net 
cash flows from operating activities 
reported in the statement of cash 
flows.  
 
responsibility for the financial 
statements in SLAuS 210.  
• The auditor did not observe the 
counting of the physical 
inventory at the beginning of 
the current period and was 
unable to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the opening balances 
of inventory.  
• The possible effects of the 
inability to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence 
regarding open ing balances of 
inventory are deemed to be 
material but not pervasive to 
the entity’s financial 
performance and cash flows. 21  
• The financial position at year 
end is fairly presented.  
• An opinion that is qualified 
regarding the financial 
performance and cash  flows 
and unmodified regarding 
financial position is considered 
appropriate in the 
circumstances.  
• The relevant ethical 
requirements that apply to the 
audit are those of the 
jurisdiction.  
• Based on the audit evidence 
obtained, the auditor has 
concluded that a material 
uncertainty does not exist 
related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt 
on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in 
accordance with SLAuS 570 
(Revised).  

<!-- page 93 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  93A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
Qualified Opinion on the Financial 
Performance and Cash Flows   
 
In our opinion, except for the possible 
effects of the matter described in the 
Basis for Qualified Opinion 
paragraph, the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and 
Statement of Cash Flows present 
fairly, in all material respects (or give 
a true and fair view o f), the financial 
performance and cash flows of ABC 
Company for the year ended 
December 31, 20X1 in accordance 
with International Financial 
Reporting Standards.  
 
Opinion on the Financial Position  
 
In our opinion, the statement of 
financial position pres ents fairly, in 
all material respects (or gives a true 
and fair view of ) the financial 
position of ABC Company as at 
December 31,  20X1 in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting  Standards.  
 
Other Matter  
 
The financial statements of ABC 
Company for the year ended 
December 31, 20X0 were audited by 
another auditor who expressed an 
unmodified opinion on those 
statements on March 31, 20X1.  
 
Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements  
 
[Form and content of this section of 
the auditor’s report will vary 
depen ding on the nature of the 
auditor’s other reporting 
responsibilities.]  
 
[Auditor’s signature]  
 
[Date of the auditor’s report]  
 
[Auditor’s address]  
• The auditor is not required, and 
has otherwise not decided, to 
communicate key audit 
matters in accordance with 
SLAuS 701.  
• The auditor has obtained all of 
the other information prior to 
the date of the auditor's report 
and has not identified a 
material misstatement of the 
other information.  
• Corresponding figures are 
presented, and the prior 
period’s financial statements 
were audited by a predecessor 
auditor. The auditor is not 
prohibited by law or 
regulation from referring to 
the predecessor audi tor’s 
report on the corresponding 
figures and has decided to do 
so. 
• Those responsible for oversight 
of the financial statements 
differ from those responsible 
for the preparation of the 
financial statements.  
• In addition to the audit of the 
financial stateme nts, the 
auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities required under 
local law.  
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S 
REPORT  
 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company 
[or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
 
Report on the Audit of the Financial 
Statements 22 
Opinions  

<!-- page 94 -->

94A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 
 
 
We have audited the financial 
statements of ABC Company (the 
Company), which comprise the 
statement of financial position as at 
December 31, 20X1, and the statement 
of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of 
cash flows for the year th en ended, and 
notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant 
accounting policies.  
Qualified Opinion on the Financial 
Performance and Cash Flows  
In our opinion, except for the possible 
effects of the matter described in the 
Basis for Qualified Opinion section of 
our report, the accompanying 
statement of comprehensive income 
and statement of cash flows present 
fairly, in all material respects (or give 
a true and fair view of), the financial 
performance and cash flows of the 
Company for the year ended December 
31, 20X1 in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRSs).  
Opinion on the Financial Position  
In our opinion, the accompanying 
statement of financial position presents 
fairly, in all material respects (or gives 
a true and f air view of), the financial 
position of the Company as at 
December 31, 20X1 in accordance 
with SLFRSs.  
Basis for Opinions, Including Basis 
for Qualified Opinion on the 
Financial Performance and Cash 
Flows  
We were appointed as auditors of the 
Company on June 30, 20X1 and thus 
did not observe the counting of the 
physical inventories at the beginning 

<!-- page 95 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  95A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
of the ye ar. We were unable to satisfy 
ourselves by alternative means 
concerning inventory quantities held at 
December 31, 20X0. Since opening 
inventories enter into the determination 
of the financial performance and cash 
flows, we were unable to determine 
whether adjustments might have been 
necessary in respect of the profit for 
the year reported in the statement of 
comprehensive income and the net 
cash flows from operating activities 
reported in the statement of cash flows.  
We conducted our audit in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards 
(SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are 
independent of the Company in 
accordance wit h the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our 
audit of the financial statements in 
[jurisdiction], and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our 
unmodified opinion on the financial 
position and our qualified audit 
opinion on the financial performance 
and cash flows.  
Other Matter  
The financial statements of the 
Company for the year ended Decembe r 
31, 20X0 were audited by another 
auditor who expressed an unmodified 
opinion on those statements on March 
31, 20X1.  
Other Information [or another title 
if appropriate such as “Information 
Other than the Financial Statements 

<!-- page 96 -->

96A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon”]   
[Reporting in accordance with the 
reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 
(Revised) —see Illustration 1 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised) ] 
Responsibilities of Management and 
Those Charged with Governance for 
the Financial Statements 23 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 
700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
SLAuS 700 (Revised ).] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Financial Statements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS  
700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
SLAuS 700 (Revised ).] 
Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 
700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
SLAuS 700 (Revised ).] 
[Signature in the name of the audit 
firm, the personal name of the auditor, 
or both, as appropriate for the 
particular jurisdiction ] 
[Auditor Address ] 
[Date] 
 
Footnotes  1. If the possible effects, in the 
auditor’s judgment, are 
considered to be material and 
pervasive to the entity’s financial 
performance and cash flows, the 
auditor would disclaim an opinion 
on the financial performance and 
cash flows.  
 
2. The sub -title “Repo rt on the 
13. SLAuS 600, Special 
Considerations —Audits of Group 
Financial Statements (Including 
the Work of Component Auditors)  
14. SLAuS  210, Agreeing the Terms of 
Audit Engagements  
15. If the possible effects, in the 
auditor’s judgment, are considered 
to be material and pervasive to the 

<!-- page 97 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  97A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
Financial Statements” is 
unnecessary in circumstances 
when the second sub -title “Report 
on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements” is not applicable.  
 
3. Or other term that is appropriate in 
the context of the legal 
framework in the particular 
jurisdiction.  
 
4. Where management’s 
responsibility is to prepare 
financial statements that give a 
true and fair view, this may read: 
“Management is responsible for 
the preparation of financial 
statements that give a true and 
fair view in accordance with Sr i 
Lanka Accounting Standards, and 
for such ...”  
 
5. In the case of footnote 9, this may 
read: “In making those risk 
assessments, the auditor considers 
internal control relevant to the 
entity’s preparation of financial 
statements that give a true and 
fair v iew in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances, but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the 
entity’s internal control.”  
 
6. In circumstances when the auditor 
also has responsibility to exp ress 
an opinion on the effectiveness of 
internal control in conjunction 
with the audit of the financial 
statements, this sentence would 
be worded as follows: “In making 
those risk assessments, the 
auditor considers internal control 
relevant to the entity’s  
preparation and fair presentation 
of the financial statements in 
order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the 
circumstances.” In the case of 
entity’s financial performance and 
cash flows, the auditor would 
disclaim an opinion on the 
financial p erformance and cash 
flows.  
16. SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going 
Concern  
17. SLAuS 701, Communicating Key 
Audit Matters in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report  
18. The sub -title “Report on the Audit 
of the Financial Statements” is 
unnecessary in circumstances when 
the second sub -title “Report on 
Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements” is not applicable.  
19. Throughout these illustrative 
auditor’s reports, the terms 
management and those charged 
with governance may need to be 
replaced by another term that is 
appropriat e in the context of the 
legal framework in the particular 
jurisdiction.  
20. SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an 
Opinion and Reporting on 
Financial Statements  
21. If the possible effects, in the 
auditor’s judgment, are considered 
to be material and pervasive to  the 
entity’s financial performance and 
cash flows, the auditor would 
disclaim the opinion on the 
financial performance and cash 
flows.  
22. The sub -title “Report on the Audit 
of the Financial Statements” is 
unnecessary in circumstances when 
the second sub -title “Report on 
Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements” is not applicable.  
23. Or other terms that are appropriate 
in the context of the legal 
framework in the particular 

<!-- page 98 -->

98A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
footnote 9, this may read: “In 
making those risk assessments, 
the auditor considers internal 
contr ol relevant to the entity’s 
preparation of financial 
statements that give a true and 
fair view in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances.”  
 
7.  If the possible effects, in the 
auditor’s judgment, are 
considered to be mat erial and 
pervasive to the entity’s financial 
performance and cash flows, the 
auditor would disclaim the 
opinion on the financial 
performance and cash flows.  
 
8. The sub -title “Report on the 
Financial Statements” is 
unnecessary in circumstances 
when the se cond sub -title “Report 
on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements” is not applicable.  
 
9.  Or other term that is appropriate 
in the context of the legal 
framework in the particular 
jurisdiction.  
 
10. Where management’s 
responsibility is to prepare 
financial statements that give a 
true and fair view, this may read: 
“Management is responsible for 
the preparation of financial 
statements that give a true and 
fair view in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards, and 
for such ...”  
 
11. In the case of footnote 15, this 
may read: “In making those risk 
assessments, the auditor considers 
internal control relevant to the 
entity’s preparation of financial 
statements that give a true and 
fair view in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in  
jurisdiction  

<!-- page 99 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  99A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
the circumstances, but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the 
entity’s internal control.”  
 
12. In circumstances when the auditor 
also has responsibility to express 
an opinion on the effectiveness of 
internal control in co njunction 
with the audit of the financial 
statements, this sentence would 
be worded as follows: “In making 
those risk assessments, the 
auditor considers internal control 
relevant to the entity’s 
preparation and fair presentation 
of the financial statements  in 
order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the 
circumstances.” In the case of 
footnote 15, this may read: “In 
making those risk assessments, 
the auditor considers internal 
control relevant to the entity’s 
preparation of financial 
statemen ts that give a true and 
fair view in order to design audit 
procedures that are app ropriate in 
the circumstances.”  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 520  (SLAuS 520  - ANALYTICAL PROCEDURES ) 
No Changes  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 530  (SLAuS 530  - AUDIT SAMPLING ) 
Appendix 2  
 
5.  
… 
For large populations, the actual size 
of the population has little, if any, 
effect on sample size . Thus, for  small 
populations, audit sampling is often 
not as efficient as alternative means 
of obtaining sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence.  
 
5. 
… 
For large populations, the actual size 
of the population has little, if any, 
effect on sample size. For small 
populations however , audit sampling 
may not be  as efficient as alternative 
means of obtaining sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence.  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 540  (SLAuS 540  - AUDITING ACCOUNTING 

<!-- page 100 -->

100A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
ESTIMATES, INCLUDING FAIR VALUE ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES, AND RELATED 
DISCLOSURES ) 
A19 • Accounting policies relating to 
accounting estimates have 
changed, as a result of changes to 
the requirements of the applicable 
financial reporting f ramework or 
otherwise.  
 
• Accounting policies relating to 
accounting estimates have 
changed, as a result of changes 
within  the requirements of the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework or otherwise.  
 
A114  With respect to accounting estimates 
that have not been recognized, the 
focus of the auditor’s evaluation is on 
whether the recognition criteria of the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework have in fact been met. 
Even where an accounting estimate 
has no t been recognized, and the 
auditor concludes that this treatment 
is appropriate, there may be a need 
for disclosure of the circumstances in 
the notes to the financial statements. 
The auditor may also determine that 
there is a need to draw the reader’s 
attention to a significant uncertainty 
by adding an Emphasis of Matter 
paragraph to the auditor’s report. 
SLAuS 706 1 establishes requirements 
and provides guidance concerning 
such paragraphs.  
With respect to accounting estimates 
that have not been recognized, the 
focus of the auditor’s evaluation is on 
whether the recognition criteria of the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework have in fact been met. Even 
where an accounting estimate has no t 
been recognized, and the auditor 
concludes that this treatment is 
appropriate, there may be a need for 
disclosure of the circumstances in the 
notes to the financial statements. 
Where applicable, the auditor may also 
determine that an accounting estimate 
that has been identified as having a 
high estimation uncertainty is a key 
audit matter to be communicated in the 
auditor’s report in accordance with 
SLAuS 701, 2 or may consider it 
necessary to include an Emphasis of 
Matter paragraph in the auditor’s 
report  (see SLAuS 706 (Revised)). 3 If 
the matter is determined to be a key 
audit matter, SLAuS 706 (Revised) 
prohibits the auditor from including an 
Emphasis of Matter paragraph in the 
auditor’s report. 4 
 
 1.  SLAuS 706, Emphasis of matter 
Paragraphs and other Matter 
Paragraphs in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report  
2. SLAuS 701, Communicating Key 
Audit Matters in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report  
3. SLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of 
Matter Paragraphs and Other 
Matter Paragraphs in the 
Independent Auditor’s Rep ort 
4. SLAu S 706 (Revised), paragraph 
8(b) 
 

<!-- page 101 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  101A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 550  (SLAuS 550  - RELATED PARTIES ) 
No changes  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 560  (SLAuS 560  - SUBSEQUENT EVENTS ) 
1 This Sri Lanka  Auditing Standard 
(SLAuS ) deals with the auditor’s 
responsibilities relating to subsequent 
events in an audit of financial 
statements. (Ref: Para. A1)  
This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 
(SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s 
responsibilities relating to subsequent 
events in an audit of financial 
statements.  It does not deal with 
matters relating to the auditor’s 
responsibilities for other information 
obtained after the date of the auditor’s 
report, which are addressed in SLAuS 
720 (Revised).* However, such other 
information may bring to light a 
subsequent event that is within the 
scope of this SLAuS.  (Ref: Para. A1)  
* SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s 
Responsibilities Relating to Other 
Information  
 
10 The auditor has no obligation to 
perform any audit procedures 
regarding the financial statements 
after the date of the auditor’s report. 
However, if, after the date of the 
auditor’s report but before the date 
the financial statements are issued, a 
fact becomes known to the auditor 
that, had it been known to the auditor 
at the date of the au ditor’s report, 
may have caused the auditor to amend 
the auditor’s report, the auditor shall: 
(Ref: Para. A11)  
… 
The auditor has no obligation to 
perform any audit procedures 
regarding the financial statements after 
the date of the auditor’s report. 
However, if, after the date of the 
auditor’s report but before the date the 
financial statements are issued, a fact 
becomes known to the auditor that, had 
it been known to the auditor at the date 
of the auditor’s report, may have 
caused the auditor  to amend the 
auditor’s report, the auditor shall:  (Ref: 
Para. A11 -A12) 
… 
 
12 (a)  Amend the auditor’s report to include 
an additional date restricted to that 
amendment that thereby indicates that 
the auditor’s procedures on 
subsequent events are restricted 
solely to the amendment of the 
financial statements described in the 
relevant note to the financial 
statements; or (Ref: Para. A12)  
Amend the auditor’s repo rt to include 
an additional date restricted to that 
amendment that thereby indicates that 
the auditor’s procedures on subsequent 
events are restricted solely to the 
amendment of the financial statements 
described in the relevant note to the 
financial state ments; or (Ref: Para. 

<!-- page 102 -->

102A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
 A13) 
 
13 In some jurisdictions, management 
may not be required by law, 
regulation or the financial reporting 
framework to issue amended financial 
statements and, accordingly, the 
auditor need not provide an amended 
or new auditor’s r eport. However, if 
management does not amend the 
financial statements in circumstances 
where the auditor believes they need 
to be amended, then: (Ref: Para. A13 -
A14)  
 
(a)  If the auditor’s report has not yet 
been provided to the entity, the 
auditor shall modify the opinion 
as required by SLAuS  705 and 
then provide the auditor’s report; 
or 
 
(b)  If the auditor’s report has already 
been provided to the entity, the 
auditor shal l notify management 
and, unless all of those charged 
with governance are involved in 
managing the entity, those 
charged with governance, not to 
issue the financial statements to 
third parties before the necessary 
amendments have been made. If 
the financial  statements are 
nevertheless subsequently issued 
without the necessary 
amendments, the auditor shall 
take appropriate action , to seek to 
prevent reliance on the auditor’s 
report. (Ref. Para: A15 -A16)  
 
In some jurisdictions, management 
may not be required by law, regulation 
or the financial reporting framework to 
issue amended financial statements 
and, accordingly, the auditor need not 
provide an amended or new auditor’s 
report. However, if management does 
not amend the financial statements in  
circumstances where the auditor 
believes they need to be amended, 
then:  (Ref: Para. A14 –A15)  
(a) If the auditor’s report has not yet 
been provided to the entity, the 
auditor shall modify the opinion as 
required by SLAuS 705 (Revised)  
and then provide the auditor’s 
report; or  
(b) If the auditor’s report has already 
been provided to the entity, the 
auditor shall notify management 
and, unless all of those charged 
with governance are involved in 
managing the entity , those charged 
with go vernance, not to issue the 
financial statements to third parties 
before the necessary amendments 
have been made. If the financial 
statements are nevertheless 
subsequently issued without the 
necessary amendments, the auditor 
shall take appropriate action to  
seek to prevent reliance on the 
auditor’s report.  (Ref. Para: A16 –
A17)  
 
14 (c)  Inquire how management intends to 
address the matter in the financial 
statements.  
Inquire how management intends to 
address the matter in the financial 
statements. (Ref: Para. A18)  
15 If management amends the financial 
statements, the auditor shall: (Ref: 
Para. A17)  
… 
If management amends the financial 
statements, the auditor shall: (Ref: 
Para. A19)  
… 
17 If management does not take the 
necessary steps to ensure that anyone 
If management does not take the 
necessary s teps to ensure that anyone 

<!-- page 103 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  103A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
in receipt of the previously issued 
financial statements is informed of 
the situation and does not amend the 
financial statements in circumstances 
where the auditor believes they need 
to be amended, the auditor shall 
notify  management and, unless all of 
those charged with governance are 
involved in managing the entity, 
those charged with governance, that 
the auditor will seek to prevent future 
reliance on the auditor’s report. If, 
despit e such notification, 
management or those charged with 
governance do not take these 
necessary steps, the auditor shall take 
appropriate action to seek to prevent 
reliance on the auditor’s report. (Ref: 
Para. A18)  
 
in receipt of the previously issued 
financial statements is informed of the 
situation and does not amend the 
financial statements in circumstances 
where the auditor believes they need to 
be amended, the auditor shall notify 
manag ement and, unless all of those 
charged with governance are involved 
in managing the entity , those charged 
with governance, that the auditor will 
seek to prevent future reliance on the 
auditor’s report. If, despite such 
notification, management or those 
charged with governance do not take 
these necessary steps, the auditor shall 
take appropriate action to seek to 
prevent reliance on the auditor’s 
report.  (Ref: Para. A20)  
 
A1 When the audited financial statements 
are included in other documents 
subsequent to the issuance of the 
financial statements, the  auditor may 
have additional responsibilities 
relating to subsequent events that the 
auditor may need to consider, such as 
legal or regulatory requirements 
involving the offering of securities to 
the public in jurisdictions in which 
the securities are being offered. For 
example, the auditor may be required 
to perform additional audit 
procedures to the date of the final 
offering do cument. These procedures 
may include those referred to in 
paragraphs 6 and 7 performed up to a 
date at or near the effective date of 
the final offering document, and 
reading the offering document to 
assess whether the other information 
in the offering docu ment is consistent 
with the financial information with 
which the auditor is associated.  
 
When the audited financial statements 
are included in other documents 
subsequent to the issuance of the 
financial statements  (other than annual 
reports that would be w ithin the scope 
of SLAuS 720 (Revised)), the auditor 
may have additional responsibilities 
relating to subsequent events that the 
auditor may need to consider, such as 
legal or regulatory requirements 
involving the offering of securities to 
the public in ju risdictions in which the 
securities are being offered. For 
example, the auditor may be required 
to perform additional audit procedures 
to the date of the final offering 
document. These procedures may 
include those referred to in paragraphs 
6 and 7 performe d up to a date at or 
near the effective date of the final 
offering document, and reading the 
offering document to assess whether 
the other information in the offering 
document is consistent with the 
financial information with which the 
auditor is associate d. 
 
Heading  [No correspondence]  Implications of Other Information 

<!-- page 104 -->

104A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
Obtained after the Date of the 
Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 10)  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A11 
[No correspondence]  While the auditor has no obligation to 
perform any audit procedures 
regarding the financial statements after 
the date of the auditor’s report but 
before the date the financial statements 
are issued, SLAuS 720 (Revised) 
contains requirements and guidance 
with respect to other information 
obtained after the date of the auditor’s 
report, which might include other 
information obtained after the date of 
the auditor’s report, but before the date 
the financial statements are issued.   
 
Heading  [No correspondence]  Implications of Other Information 
Received After the Financial 
Statements Have Been Issued (Ref: 
Para.14)  
 
2014 – No 
correspondent 
para.  
2017 – A18 
[No correspondence]  The auditor’s obligations regarding 
other information received after the 
date of the auditor’s report are 
addressed in SLAuS 720 (Revised). 
While the auditor has no obligation to 
perform any audit procedures 
regarding the financial statements after 
the fin ancial statements have been 
issued, SLAuS 720 (Revised) contains 
requirements and guidance with 
respect to other information obtained 
after the date of the auditor’s report.  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 570  (SLAuS 570 - GOING CONCERN ) 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 570 ( Effective for audits of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January 2014) is replaced by Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 570 (Revised ) 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on  or after 01 January, 2018)  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 580  (SLAuS 580  - WRITTEN REPRESENTATIONS ) 
A3 Due to its responsibility for the 
preparation of the financial 
statements, and its responsibilities for 
the conduct of the entity’s business, 
management would be expected to 
have sufficient knowledge of the 
process followed by the entity in 
preparing and presenting  the financial 
Due to its responsibility for the 
preparation  of the financial statements, 
and its responsibilities for the conduct 
of the entity’s business, management 
would be expected to have sufficient 
knowledge of the process followed by 
the entity in preparing the financial 
statements and the assertions therei n 

<!-- page 105 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  105A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
statements and the assertions therein 
on which to base the written 
representations.  
on which to base the written 
representations.  
Appendix 1  … 
 
This appendix identifies paragraphs 
in other SLAuSs in effect for audits 
of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January 2014  
that require subject -matter specific 
written representations. The list is not 
a substitute for considering the 
requirements and related application 
and other explanatory material in 
SLAuSs.  
… 
• SLAuS  570, Going Concern – 
paragraph 16(e)  
… 
 
 
This appendix identifies paragraphs in 
other SLAuSs that require subject -
matter specific written representations. 
The list is not a substitute for 
considering the requirements and 
related application and other 
explanatory material in SLAuSs.  
… 
• SLAuS 570 (R evised),  Going 
Concern  – paragraph 16(e)  
… 
• SLAuS 720 (Revised), The 
Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating 
to Other Information – paragraph 
13(c)  
Appendix 2   
… 
 
The following illustrative letter 
includes written representations that 
are required by this and other 
SLAuSs in effect for audits of 
financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January 
2014.  It is assumed in this illustration 
that the applic able financial reporting 
framework is Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards; the requirement of SLAuS 
570 to obtain a written representation 
is not relevant; and that there are no 
exceptions to the requested written 
representations. If there were 
exceptions, the representations would 
need to be modified to reflect the 
exceptions.  
 
… 
… 
 
The following illustrative letter 
includes written representations that 
are required by this and other SLAuSs. 
It is assumed in this illustration that 
the applicable financial repor ting 
framework is Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards; the requirement of SLAuS 
570 to obtain a written representation 
is not relevant; and that there are no 
exceptions to the requested written 
representations. If there were 
exceptions, the representations woul d 
need to be modified to reflect the 
exceptions.  
 
…. 
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 600 (SLAuS 600  - SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS —
AUDITS OF GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (INCLUDING THE WORK OF 
COMPONENT AUDITORS) ) 
Appendix 1  (Ref: Para. A19)  
 
Example of a Qualified Opinion 
(Ref: Para. A19)  
 
Illustration of Independent 

<!-- page 106 -->

106A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
Where the Group Engagement 
Team Is Not Able to Obtain 
Sufficient Appropriate Audit 
Evidence on Which to Base the 
Group Audit Opinion  
 
In this example, the group 
engagement team is unable to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audi t evidence 
relating to a significant component 
accounted for by the equity method 
(recognized at Rs 15 million in the 
statement of financial position, which 
reflects total assets of Rs 60 million) 
because the group engagement team 
did not have access to th e accounting 
records, management, or auditor of 
the component.  
 
The group engagement team has read 
the audited financial statements of the 
component as of December 31, 20X1, 
including the auditor’s report thereon, 
and considered related financial 
informati on kept by group 
management in relation to the 
component.  
 
In the group engagement partner’s 
judgment, the effect on the group 
financial statements of this inability 
to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence is material but not 
pervasive.  
 
INDEPENDEN T AUDITOR’S 
REPORT  
 
[Appropriate Addressee]  
 
Report on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements 1 
  
We have audited the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements of 
ABC Company and its subsidiaries, 
which comprise the consolidated 
statement of financial position as at 
December 31, 20X1, and the 
consolidated statement of 
Auditor’s Report Where the Group 
Engagement Team Is Not Able to 
Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit 
Evidence on Which to Base the 
Group Audit Opinion  
Note:  Throughout this illustrative 
auditor’s report, the Opinion section 
has b een positioned first in accordance 
with SLAuS 700 (Revised), and the 
Basis for Opinion section is positioned 
immediately after the Opinion section. 
Also, the first and last sentence that 
was included in the extant auditor’s 
responsibilities section is now 
subsumed as part of the new Basis for 
Opinion section.  
 
For purposes of this illustrative 
auditor’s report, the following 
circumstances are assumed:  
• Audit of a complete set of 
consolidated financial 
statements of an entity other 
than a listed entity using a fair 
presentation framework. The 
audit is a group audit (i.e., 
SLAuS 600 applies).  
• The consolidated financial 
statements are prepared by 
management of the entity in 
accordance with SLFRSs (a 
general purpose framework).  
• The terms of the audit 
engagement reflect the 
description of management’s 
responsibility for the 
consolidated financial 
statements in SLAuS 210.  
• The group engagement team is 
unable to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence 
relating to a significant 
component accounted for by 

<!-- page 107 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  107A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of 
cash flows for the year then ended, 
and a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other 
explanatory i nformation.  
 
Management’s 2 Responsibility for the 
Consolidated Financial  
Statements  
 
Management is responsible for the 
preparation and fair presentation of 
these consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards, 3 and for 
such internal control as management 
determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of consolidated financial 
statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error.  
 
Auditor’s Responsibility  
 
Our responsibility is to  express an 
opinion on these consolidated 
financial statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards. Those standards require 
that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to ob tain reasonable 
assurance about whether the 
consolidated financial statements are 
free from material misstatement.  
 
An audit involves performing 
procedures to obtain audit evidence 
about the amounts and disclosures in 
the consolidated financial statements.  
The procedures selected depend on 
the auditor’s judgment, including the 
assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated 
financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error. In making those risk 
assessments, the auditor considers 
inter nal control relevant to the 
the equi ty method (recognized 
at $15 million in the statement 
of financial position, which 
reflects total assets of $60 
million) because the group 
engagement team did not have 
access to the accounting 
records, management, or 
auditor of the component.  
• The group en gagement team 
has read the audited financial 
statements of the component as 
at December 31, 20X1, 
including the auditor’s report 
thereon, and considered 
related financial information 
kept by group management in 
relation to the component.  
• In the group engagement 
partner’s judgment, the effect 
on the group financial 
statements of this inability to 
obtain sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence is material but 
not pervasive. 6 
• The Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants (CA 
Sri Lanka Code) comprises all 
of the relevant ethical 
requirements that apply to the 
audit.  
• Based on the audit evidence 
obtained, the auditor has 
concluded that a material 
uncertainty does not exist 
related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt 
on the entity’s ability  to 
continue as a going concern in 
accordance with SLAuS 570 
(Revised). 7  
• The auditor is not required, 
and has otherwise not decided, 
to communicate key audit 
matters in accordance with 
SLAuS 701. 8 

<!-- page 108 -->

108A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
entity’s preparation and fair 
presentation 4 of the consolidated 
financial statements in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances, but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion on 
the effectiv eness of the entity’s 
internal control. 5 An audit also 
includes evaluating the 
appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness 
of accounting estimates made by 
management, as well as evaluating 
the overall presentation of the 
consolidated  financial statements.  
 
We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our 
qualified audit opinion.  
 
Basis for Qualified Opinion  
 
ABC Company’s investment in XYZ 
Company, a foreign associate 
acquire d during the year and 
accounted for by the equity method, 
is carried at Rs 15 million on the 
consolidated statement of financial 
position as at December 31, 20X1, 
and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net 
income of Rs 1 million is included in 
the consolidated statement  of 
comprehensive income for the year 
then ended. We were unable to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
about the carrying amount of ABC’s 
investment in XYZ as at December 
31, 20X1 and ABC’s share of XYZ’s 
net income for the year because we 
were d enied access to the financial 
information, management, and the 
auditors of XYZ. Consequently, we 
were unable to determine whether any 
adjustments to these amounts were 
necessary.  
 
Qualified Opinion  
 
In our opinion, except for the possible 
• The auditor has obtained all of 
the other information prio r to 
the date of the auditor's report 
and the qualified opinion on 
the consolidated financial 
statements also affects the 
other information.  
• Those responsible for oversight 
of the consolidated financial 
statements differ from those 
responsible for the prep aration 
of the consolidated financial 
statements.  
• In addition to the audit of the 
consolidated financial 
statements, the auditor has 
other reporting responsibilities 
required under local law.  
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S 
REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company 
[or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
Report on the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements 9 
Qualified Opinion  
We have audited the consolidated 
financial statements of ABC Company 
and its subsidiaries (the Group), which 
comprise the consolidated  statement of 
financial position as at December 31, 
20X1, and the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income, 
consolidated statement of changes in 
equity and consolidated statement of 
cash flows for the year then ended, and 
notes to the consolidated fi nancial 
statements, including a summary of 
significant accounting policies.  
In our opinion, except for the possible 
effects of the matter described in the 
Basis for Qualified Opinion section of 
our report, the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements  
present fairly, in all material respects 

<!-- page 109 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  109A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
effects of the matter described in the 
Basis for Qualified Opinion 
paragraph, the consolidated financial 
statements present fairly, in all 
material respects, (or give a true and 
fair view of ) the financial position of 
ABC Company and its subsidiaries as 
at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) their 
financial performance and cash flows 
for the year then ended in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.  
 
Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements  
 
[Form a nd content of this section of 
the auditor’s report will vary 
depending on the nature of the 
auditor’s other reporting 
responsibilities.]  
 
[Auditor’s signature]  
 
[Date of the auditor’s report]  
 
[Auditor’s address]  
 
If, in the group engagement partner’s 
judgment, the effect on the group 
financial statements of the inability to 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence is material and pervasive, 
the group engagement partner would 
disclaim an opinion in accordance 
with SLAuS 705.  
 
(or give a true and fair view of), the 
consolidated financial position of the 
Group as at December 31, 20X1, and 
(of) their consolidated financial 
performance and consolidated cash 
flows for the year then ended in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards (SLFRSs).  
 
Basis for Qualified Opinion  
ABC Company’s investment in XYZ 
Company, a foreign associate acquired 
during the year and accounted for by 
the equity method, is carried at $15 
million on the consolidated statement 
of financial position as at December 
31, 20X1, and ABC’s share of XYZ’s 
net income of $1 million is included in 
the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income  for the year 
then ended. We were unable to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
about the carrying amount of ABC’s 
investment in XYZ as at December 31, 
20X1 an d ABC’s share of XYZ’s net 
income for the year because we were 
denied access to the financial 
information, management, and the 
auditors of XYZ. Consequently, we 
were unable to determine whether any 
adjustments to these amounts were 
necessary.  
 
We conducte d our audit in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards 
(SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements  section of our report. We 
are in dependent of the Group in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants  (CA Sri 
Lanka Code), and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with the CA Sri Lanka 
Code.  We believe that the audit 

<!-- page 110 -->

110A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
evidence we have obt ained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our qualified audit opinion.  
 
Other Information [or another title 
if appropriate such as “Information 
Other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon”]  
[Reporting in accordance with the 
reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 
(Revised) 10 – see Illustration 6 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised). 
The last paragraph of the other 
information section in Illustration 6 
would be customized to describe the 
specific m atter giving rise to the 
qualified opinion that also affects the 
other information. ] 
 
Responsibilities of Management and 
Those Charged with Governance for 
the Consolidated Financial 
Statements 11 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS  
700 (Revised) 12 – see Illustration 2 in 
SLAuS 700 (Revised ).] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS  
700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in 
SLAuS 700 (Revised ). The last two 
paragraphs which are applicable for 
audits of listed entities only would not 
be included. ] 
Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 
700 (R evised) – see Illustration 2 in 
SLAuS 700 (Revised ).] 
 [Signature in the name of the audit 
firm, the personal name of the auditor, 
or both, as appropriate for the 

<!-- page 111 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  111A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
particular jurisdiction ] 
[Auditor Address ]  
[Date] 
If, in the group engagement partner’s 
judgment, the effect on the group 
financial statements of the inability to 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence is material and pervasive, the 
group engagement partner would 
disclaim an opinion  in accordance with 
SLAuS 705 (Revised).  
 
 1. The sub -title, “Report on the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements” is unnecessary in 
circumstances when the second 
sub-title, “Report on Other Legal 
and Regulatory Requirements” is 
not applicable.  
2. Or other term that is appropriate in 
the context of the legal  
framework in the particular 
jurisdiction.  
3. Where management’s 
responsibility is to prepare 
consolidated financial statements 
that give a true and fair view, this 
may read “Management is 
responsible for the preparation of 
consolidated financial statements 
that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards, and for 
such ...”  
4. In the case of footnote 27, this 
may read: “In making those risk 
assessments, the auditor considers 
internal control relevant to the 
entity’s preparation of 
consolidated financial statements 
that give a true and fair view in 
order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the 
entity’s internal control.”  
5. In circ umstances when the auditor 
6.  If, in the group engagement 
partner’s judgment, the effect on 
the group financial statements of 
the inability to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence is 
material and pervasive, the group 
engagement partner would 
disclaim an opi nion in accordance 
with SLAuS 705 (Revised).  
7. SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going 
Concern  
8.  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key 
Audit Matters in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report  
9.  The sub -title, “Report on the Audit 
of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements” is unnecessary in 
circumstances when the second 
sub-title, “Report on Other Legal 
and Regulatory Requirements” is 
not applicable.  
10. SLAuS 720 (Revised), The 
Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating 
to Other Information  
11. Throughout these illustrative 
auditor’s  reports, the terms 
management and those charged 
with governance may need to be 
replaced by another term that is 
appropriate in the context of the 
legal framework in the particular 
jurisdiction.  

<!-- page 112 -->

112A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
also has responsibility to express 
an opinion on the effectiveness of 
internal control in conjunction 
with the audit of the consolidated 
financial statements, this sentence 
would be worded as follows: “In 
making those risk assess ments, 
the auditor considers internal 
control relevant to the entity’s 
preparation and fair  presentation 
of the consolidated financial 
statements in order to design 
audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances.” 
In the case of footnote 27, th is 
may read: “In making those risk 
assessments, the auditor considers 
internal control relevant to the 
entity’s preparation of 
consolidated financial statements 
that give a true and fair view in 
order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the 
circumstances.”  
 
12. SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an 
Opinion and Reporting on 
Financial Statements  
Appendix 4  … 
 
This letter is provided in connection 
with your audit of the group financial 
statements of [name of parent] for the 
year ended [date] for the purpose of 
expressing an opinion on whether the 
group financial statements present 
fairly, in all material respect s (give a 
true and fair view of) the financial 
position of the group as of [date] and 
of its financial performance and cash 
flows for the year then ended in 
accordance with [indicate applicable 
financial reporting framework].  
… 
 
… 
This letter is provided in connection 
with your audit of the group financial 
statements of [name of parent] for t he 
year ended [date] for the purpose of 
expressing an opinion on whether the 
group financial statements present 
fairly, in all material respects (give a 
true and fair view of) the financial 
position of the group as at [date] and 
(of) its financial performa nce and cash 
flows for the year then ended in 
accordance with [indicate applicable 
financial reporting framework].  
… 
Appendix 5  … 
• The ethical requirements that are 
relevant to the group audit and, 
in particular, the independence 
requirements.  
… 
… 
• The ethical requirements that are 
relevant to the group audit and, in 
particular, the independence 
requirements, for example, where 
the group auditor is prohibited by 
law or regulation from using 

<!-- page 113 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  113A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
internal auditors to provide direct 
assistance, it is relevant f or the 
group auditor to consider whether 
the prohibition also extends to 
component auditors and, if so, to 
address this in the communication 
to the component auditors. 1 
… 
 
Foot note  [No Correspondence]  1.   SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013), Using 
the Work of Internal Auditors, 
paragraph A31  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 610  (SLAuS 610  - USING THE WORK OF 
INTERNAL AUDITORS ) 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 610 ( Effective for audits of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January 2014) is replaced by Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 610 ( Revised ) 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January, 2015)  
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 620 (SLAuS 620  - USING THE WORK OF AN 
AUDITOR’S EXPERT ) 
No Changes  
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 700 (SLAuS 700  - FORMING AN OPINION AND 
REPORTING ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ) 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 700 ( Effective for audits of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January 2014) is replaced by Sri Lanka Auditing Standard  700 ( Revised ) 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on  or after 01 January, 2018)  
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 701 ( SLAuS 701 - COMMUNICATING KEY AUDIT 
MATTERS IN THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ) 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 701 is e ffective for audits of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January, 2018.  
 
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 705 (SLAuS 705  - MODIFICATIONS TO THE 
OPINION IN THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S  REPORT ) 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 705 ( Effective for audits of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January 2014) is replaced by Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 705 (Effective 
for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January, 2018)  
 
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 706 (SLAuS 706  - EMPHASIS OF MATTER 
PARAGRAPHS AND OTHER MATTER PARAGRAPHS IN THE INDEPENDENT 
AUDITOR’S REPORT ) 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 706 ( Effective for audits of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January 2014) is replaced by Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 706 (Revised ) 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January, 2018)  

<!-- page 114 -->

114A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 710 (SLAuS 710  - COMPARATIVE 
INFORMATION —CORRESPONDING FIGURES AND COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS ) 
3 The essential audit reporting 
differences between the approaches 
are: 
 
(a)  For corresponding figures, the 
auditor’s opinion  on the financial 
statements refers to the current 
period only  (which is the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework in Sri Lanka); whereas  
 
(b)  For comparative financial 
statements, the auditor’s opinion 
refers to each period for which 
financial statements are presented  
(which is not the applicable 
financial reporting framework in 
Sri Lanka).   
 
This SLAuS  addresses separately the 
auditor’s reporting requirements for 
each approach.  
 
The essential audit reporting 
differences between the approaches 
are: 
(a) For corresponding figures, the 
auditor’s opinion on the financial 
statements refers to the current 
period o nly; whereas  
(b) For comparative financial 
statements, the auditor’s opinion 
refers to each period for which 
financial statements are presented.  
 
This SLAuS  addresses separately the 
auditor’s reporting requirements for 
each approach.  
 
4 This SLAuS  is effective for audits of 
financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January 
2012.  
This SLAuS is effective for audits of 
financial statements for p eriods 
beginning on or after 01 January 2014.  
15 When comparative financial 
statements are presented, the auditor’s 
opinion shall refer to each period for 
which financial statements are 
presented and on which an audit 
opinion is expressed . (Ref: Para. A8  
A9) 
When comparative financial statements 
are presented, the auditor’s opinion 
shall refer to each period for which 
financial statements are presented and 
on which an audit opinion is expressed. 
(Ref: Para. A9 –A10)  
16 When reporting on prior period 
financial statements in connection 
with the current period’s audit, if the 
auditor’s opinion on such prior period 
financial statements differs from the 
opinion the auditor previously 
expressed, the auditor shall disclose 
the substantive reasons for the 
different opinion in an Other Matter 
paragraph in accordance with SLAuS  
706. (Ref: Para. A10)  
When reporting on prior period 
financial statements in connection with 
the current period’s audit, if the 
auditor’s opinion on such prior period 
financial statements differs from the 
opinion the auditor previously 
expressed, the auditor shall disclose the 
substantive reasons for the different 
opinion in an Other Matter paragraph 
in accordance with SLAuS 706 
(Revised). (Ref: Para. A11)  
18 If the auditor concludes that a 
material misstatement exists that 
If the auditor concludes that a material 
misstatement exists that affects the 

<!-- page 115 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  115A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
affects the prior period financial 
statements on which  the predecessor 
auditor had previously reported 
without modification, the auditor shall 
communicate the misstatement with 
the appropriate level of management 
and, unless all of those charged with 
governance are involved in managing 
the entity, those charg ed with 
governance and request that the 
predecessor auditor be informed. If 
the prior period financial statements 
are amended, and the predecessor 
auditor agrees to issue a new auditor’s 
report on the amended financial 
statements of the prior period, the 
auditor shall report only on the 
current period. (Ref: Para. A11)  
prior period financial statements on 
which the predecessor auditor had 
previously reported without 
modification, the auditor shall 
communicate the misstatement with the 
appropriate level of management and, 
unless all of those charged with 
governance are involved in managing 
the entity,  those charged with 
governance and request that the 
predecessor auditor be informed . If the 
prior period financial statements are 
amended, and the predecessor auditor 
agrees to issue a new auditor’s report 
on the amended financial statements of 
the prior period, the auditor shall report 
only on the current period. (Ref: Para. 
A12) 
Headi ng [No correspondence]  Prior Period Financial Statements Not 
Audited (Ref: Para. 14)  
2014 - No 
corresponding 
para 
2017 - A8 
[No correspondence]  If the auditor is unable to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the opening balances, the 
auditor is required by SLAuS 705 
(Revised)* to express a qualified 
opinion or disclaim an opinion on the 
financial statements, as appropriate, in 
accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised). 
If the auditor encountered significant 
difficulty in obtaining sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence that the 
opening balances do not contain 
misstatements that materially affect the 
current period’s financial statements, 
the auditor may determine this to be a 
key audit matter in accordance with 
SLAuS 701. ** 
* SLAuS 705 (Revised), 
Modifications to the Opinion in the 
Independent Auditor’s Report  
** SLAuS 701, Communicating Key 
Audit Matters in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report  
Heading  [No correspondence]  Prior Period Financial Statements Not 
Audited (Ref: Para. 19)  
 
2014 - No 
corresponding 
para 
2017 – A13 
[No correspondence]  If the auditor is unable to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the opening balances, the 
auditor is required by SLAuS 705 

<!-- page 116 -->

116A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Description 2014 2017 
(Revised) to express a qualified 
opinion or disclaim an opinion on the 
financial statements, as appropriate, in 
accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised). 
If the auditor encountered significant 
difficulty in obtaining sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence that the 
opening balances do not contain 
misstatements that materially affect the 
current period’s financial statements,  
the auditor may determine this to be a 
key audit matter in accordance with 
SLAuS 701.  
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 720 (SLAuS 720  - THE AUDITOR’S 
RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO OTHER INFORMATION IN DOCUMENTS 
CONTAINING AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ) 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 720 ( Effective for audits of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January 2014) is replaced by Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 720 ( Revised ) 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January, 2018)  
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 800 (SLAuS 800  - SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS —
AUDITS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH 
SPECIAL PURPOSE FRAMEWORKS ) 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 800 ( Effective for audits of financial statements for periods 
beginning on o r after 01 January 2014) is replaced by Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 800 ( Revised ) 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January, 2018)  
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 805 (SLAuS 805 - SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS —
AUDITS OF SINGLE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SPECIFIC ELEMENTS, 
ACCOUNTS OR ITEMS OF A FINANCIAL STATEMENT)  
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 805 is e ffective for audits of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January, 2018.  
SRI LANKA  AUDITING STANDARD 810 (SLAuS 810 - ENGAGEMENTS TO REPORT 
ON SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS)  
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 810 is e ffective for audits of financial statements for periods 
beginning on or after 01 January, 2018.  
 

<!-- page 117 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    117A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
SRI LANKA FRAMEWORK FOR ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENTS 
 
This amended Sri Lanka Framework for Assurance Engagements will replace the extant Sri Lanka 
Framework for Assurance Engagements at the time SLSAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other 
than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, comes into effect. 
 
 
CONTENTS 
Paragraph 
Introduction ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................   1–4 
Ethical Principles and Quality Control Standards  ................................ ................................ ....  5–9 
Description of Assurance Engagements  ................................ ................................ ..................   10–11 
Attestation Engagements and Direct Engagements  ................................ ................................ .  12–13 
Reasonable Assurance Engagements and Limited Assurance  
Engagements  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................   14–16 
Scope of the Framework  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  17–19 
Reports on Non-Assurance Engagements  ................................ ................................ ...............   20–21 
Preconditions for an Assurance Engagement ................................ ................................ ...........   22–25 
Elements of an Assurance Engagement ................................ ................................ ...................   26 
Three Party Relationship ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  27–38 
Underlying Subject Matter ................................ ................................ ................................ ......  39–41 
Criteria ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...  42–49 
Evidence ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................   50–82 
Assurance Report................................ ................................ ................................ ....................   83–92 
Other Matters ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................   93–95 
Inappropriate Use of the Practitioner’s Name ................................ ................................ ..........  96 
Appendix 1: Pronouncements Issued by the Council of the Institute of Charted Accountants of Sri Lanka, 
and Their Relationship to Each Other and the CA Sri Lanka Code  
Appendix 2: Attestation Engagements and Direct Engagements 
Appendix 3: The Parties to an Assurance Engagement 
Appendix 4: Categorization of Underlying Subject Matters 
  

<!-- page 118 -->

118A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Introduction 
1. This Framework is issued solely to facilitate understanding of the elements and objectives of an 
assurance engagement and the engagements to which Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuS), Sri Lanka 
Standards on Review Engagements (SLSRE) and Sri L anka Standards on Assurance Engagements 
(SLSAE) (hereinafter referred to as Assurance Standards) apply.  
2. This Framework is not a Standard and, accordingly, does not establish any requirements (or basic 
principles or essential procedures) for the performanc e of audits, reviews, or other assurance 
engagements.1  An assurance report cannot, therefore, claim that an engagement has been conducted in 
accordance with this Framework, but rather should refer to relevant Assurance Standards. Assurance 
Standards conta in objectives, requirements, application and other explanatory material, introductory 
material and definitions that are consistent with this Framework, and are to be applied in audit, review, 
and other assurance engagements. Appendix 1 illustrates the ambi t of pronouncements issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and their relationship to each other and 
to the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka Code). 
3. This Framework provides a frame of reference for 
(a) Assurance practitioners; 
(b) Others involved with assurance engagements, including the intended users of an assurance report 
and those engaging a practitioner (the “engaging party”); and 
(c) The Council of CA Sri Lanka in its development of Assurance Standards, Practice Notes and 
other papers. 
4. The following is an overview of this Framework: 
 Introduction: This Framework deals with assurance engagements performed by practitioners. 
 Description of assurance engagements : This section describes assurance engagements and 
distinguishes direct engagements from attestation engagements, and reasonable assurance 
engagements from limited assurance engagements. 
 Scope of the Framework : This section disting uishes assurance engagements from other 
engagements, such as consulting engagements. 
 Preconditions for an assurance engagement: This section sets out preconditions for a practitioner to 
accept an assurance engagement. 
 Elements of an assurance engagement: This section identifies and discusses five elements assurance 
engagements exhibit: a three party relationship; an underlying subject matter; criteria; evidence; and 
an assurance report. It further explains important distinctions between reasonable assurance  
engagements and limited assurance engagements. This section also discusses, for example, the 
significant variation in the underlying subject matters of assurance engagements, the required 
characteristics of suitable criteria, the role of risk and material ity in assurance engagements, and 
how conclusions are expressed in reasonable assurance engagements and in limited assurance 
engagements. 
 Other matters: This section discusses communication responsibilities other than the practitioner’s 
assurance report, d ocumentation, and the implications of a practitioner’s association with an 
underlying subject matter or with subject matter information. 
 
                                                             
1  See the Preface to the Sri Lanka Other Audit Pronouncements and Sri Lanka Related Services Pronouncements  

<!-- page 119 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    119A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Ethical Principles and Quality Control Standards 
5. Quality control within firms that perform assurance engagements, a nd compliance with ethical 
principles, including independence requirements, are widely recognized as being in the public interest 
and an integral part of high -quality assurance engagements. Such engagements are performed in 
accordance with Assurance Standards, which are premised on the basis that:  
(a) The members of the engagement team and the engagement quality control reviewer (for those 
engagements where one has been appointed) are subject to Parts A and B of the CA Sri Lanka 
Code related to assurance engagements, other professional requirements, or requirements in law 
or regulation, that are at least demanding; and 
(b) The practitioner performing the engagement is a member of a firm that is subject to SLSQC 1, 2  
or other professional requirements, or requir ements in law or regulation, regarding the firm’s 
responsibility for its system of quality control, that are at least as demanding as SLSQC 1. 
 
The CA Sri Lanka Code 
6. Part A of the CA Sri Lanka Code establishes the following fundamental principles with w hich the 
practitioner is required to comply: 
(a) Integrity; 
(b) Objectivity; 
(c) Professional competence and due care; 
(d) Confidentiality; and 
(e) Professional behavior. 
7. Part A also provides a conceptual framework for professional accountants to apply to identify threats to 
compliance with the fundamental principles, evaluate the significance of the threats identified, and apply 
safeguards, when necessary, to eliminate the threats or reduce them to an acceptable level. 
8. Part B of the CA Sri Lanka Code describes how the c onceptual framework in Part A applies in certain 
situations to professional accountants in public practice, including independence. The CA Sri Lanka 
Code defines independence as comprising both independence of mind and independence in appearance. 
Independence safeguards the ability to form an assurance conclusion without being affected by 
influences that might compromise that conclusion. Independence enhances the ability to act with 
integrity, to be objective and to maintain an attitude of professional skepticism. 
SLSQC 1 
9. SLSQC 1 deals with the firm’s responsibilities to establish and maintain its system of quality control for 
assurance engagements. Compliance with SLSQC 1 requires, among other things, that the firm establish 
and maintain a system of qual ity control that includes policies and procedures addressing each of the 
following elements, and that it documents its policies and procedures and communicates them to the 
firm’s personnel: 
(a) Leadership responsibilities for quality within the firm; 
                                                             
2  Sri Lanka S tandard on Quality Control (SLSQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial 
Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements  

<!-- page 120 -->

120A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(b) Relevant ethical requirements; 
(c) Acceptance and continuance of client relationships and specific engagements; 
(d) Human resources; 
(e) Engagement performance; and 
(f) Monitoring. 
 
Description of Assurance Engagements 
10. An assurance engagement is an engagement in which a practitioner aims to obtain sufficient appropriate 
evidence in order to express a conclusion designed to enhance the degree of confidence of the intended 
users other than the responsible party about the outcome of the measurement or evaluation of an 
underlying subject matter against criteria. 
11. The outcome of the measurement or evaluation of an underlying subject matter is the information that 
results from applying the criteria to the underlying subject matter. For example: 
 The financial statements (outcome) re sult from measuring an entity’s financial position, financial 
performance and cash flows (underlying subject matter) by applying a financial reporting 
framework (criteria). 
 A statement about the effectiveness of internal control (outcome) results from eval uating the 
effectiveness of an entity’s internal control process (underlying subject matter) by applying relevant 
criteria. 
 Entity-specific performance measures (outcome) result from measuring various aspects of 
performance (underlying subject matter) by a pplying relevant measurement methodologies 
(criteria). 
 A greenhouse gas statement (outcome) results from measuring an entity’s greenhouse emissions 
(underlying subject matter) by applying recognition, measurement and presentation protocols 
(criteria). 
 A st atement about compliance (outcome) results from evaluating the compliance of an entity 
(underlying subject matter) with, for example, law and regulation (criteria). 
The term “subject matter information” is used to mean the outcome of the measurement or evaluation of 
an underlying subject matter against the criteria. It is the subject matter information about which the 
practitioner gathers sufficient appropriate evidence as the basis for the practitioner’s conclusion.  
 
Attestation Engagements and Direct Engagements 
12. In an attestation engagement, a party other than the practitioner measures or evaluates the underlying 
subject matter against the criteria. A party other than the practitioner also often presents the resulting 
subject matter information in a r eport or statement. In some cases, however, the subject matter 
information may be presented by the practitioner in the assurance report. The practitioner’s conclusion 
addresses whether the subject matter information is free from material misstatement (see also paragraph 
85). 
13. In a direct engagement, the practitioner measures or evaluates the underlying subject matter against the 
criteria. In addition, the practitioner applies assurance skills and techniques to obtain sufficient 
appropriate evidence about  the outcome of the measurement or evaluation of the underlying subject 
matter against the criteria. The practitioner may obtain that evidence simultaneously with the 
measurement or evaluation of the underlying subject matter, but may also obtain it before  or after such 

<!-- page 121 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    121A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
measurement or evaluation. In a direct engagement, the practitioner’s conclusion addresses the reported 
outcome of the measurement or evaluation of the underlying subject matter against the criteria and is 
phrased in terms of the underlying subject matter and the criteria. In some direct engagements, the 
practitioner’s conclusion is, or is part of, the subject matter information (see also Appendix 2). 
 
Reasonable Assurance Engagements and Limited Assurance Engagements 
14. In a reasonable assu rance engagement, the practitioner reduces engagement risk to an acceptably low 
level in the circumstances of the engagement as the basis for the practitioner’s conclusion. The 
practitioner’s conclusion is expressed in a form that conveys the practitioner’ s opinion on the outcome 
of the measurement or evaluation of the underlying subject matter against criteria. 
15. In a limited assurance engagement, the practitioner reduces engagement risk to a level that is acceptable 
in the circumstances of the engagemen t but where that risk is greater than for a reasonable assurance 
engagement as the basis for expressing a conclusion in a form that conveys whether, based on the 
procedures performed and evidence obtained, a matter(s) has come to the practitioner’s attenti on to 
cause the practitioner to believe the subject matter information is materially misstated. The nature, 
timing and extent of procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement is limited compared with 
that necessary in a reasonable assurance engagement but is planned to obtain a level of assurance that is, 
in the practitioner’s professional judgment, meaningful. To be meaningful, the level of assurance 
obtained by the practitioner is likely to enhance the intended users’ confidence about the subject  matter 
information to a degree that is clearly more than inconsequential.  
 
16. Across the range of all limited assurance engagements, what is meaningful assurance can vary from just 
above assurance that is likely to enhance the intended users’ confidence  about the subject matter 
information to a degree that is clearly more than inconsequential to just below reasonable assurance. 
What is meaningful in a particular engagement represents a judgment within that range that depends on 
the engagement circumstances, including the information needs of intended users as a group, the criteria, 
and the underlying subject matter of the engagement. In some cases, the consequences to intended users 
of receiving an inappropriate conclusion may be so great that a reasonabl e assurance engagement is 
needed for the practitioner to obtain assurance that is meaningful in the circumstances. 
 
Scope of the Framework 
17. Not all engagements performed by practitioners are assurance engagements. Other frequently performed 
engagements that are not consistent with the description in paragraph 10 above (and therefore are not 
covered by this Framework) include: 
 Engagements covered by Sri Lanka Standards on Related Services (SLSRSs), such as agreed -upon 
procedures and compilation engagements.3  
 The preparation of tax returns where no assurance conclusion is expressed. 
 Consulting (or advisory) engagements,4  such as management and tax consulting. 
                                                             
3  SLSRS 4400, Engagements to Perform Agreed -Upon Procedures Regarding Financial I nformation, and SLSRS 4410 (Revised), 
Compilation Engagements 
4  In a consulting engagement, the practitioner applies technical skills, education, observations, experiences, and knowledge of  the 
consulting process. Consulting engagements involve an analyti cal process that typically involves some combination of activities 
relating to: objective -setting, fact -finding, definition of problems or opportunities, evaluation of alternatives, development of 

<!-- page 122 -->

122A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
18. An assurance engagement may be part of a larger engagement, for example, when a business acquisition 
consulting engagement includes a requirement to obtain assurance regarding historical or prospective 
financial information. In such circumstances, this Framework is relevant only to the assurance portion of 
the engagement. 
19. The following engagem ents, which may be consistent with the description in paragraph 10, are not 
considered assurance engagements in terms of this Framework: 
(a) Engagements to testify in legal proceedings regarding accounting, auditing, taxation or other 
matters; and 
 
(b) Engagements that include professional opinions, views or wording from which a user may derive 
some assurance, if all of the following apply: 
(i) Those opinions, views or wording are merely incidental to the overall engagement; 
(ii) Any written report issued is expressly restr icted for use by only the intended users specified 
in the report; 
(iii) Under a written understanding with the specified intended users, the engagement is not 
intended to be an assurance engagement; and 
(iv) The engagement is not represented as an assurance engagement in the practitioner’s report. 
Reports on Non-Assurance Engagements 
20. A practitioner reporting on an engagement that is not an assurance engagement within the scope of this 
Framework clearly distinguishes that report from an assurance report. So as not to confuse users, a report 
that is not an assurance report avoids, for example: 
 Implying compliance with this Framework, or with Assurance Standards. 
 Inappropriately using the words “assurance,” “audit” or “review.” 
 Including a statement that could reasona bly be mistaken for a conclusion based on sufficient 
appropriate evidence that is designed to enhance the degree of confidence of intended users about 
the outcome of the measurement or evaluation of an underlying subject matter against criteria. 
21. The practitioner and the responsible party may agree to apply the principles of this Framework to an 
engagement when there are no intended users other than the responsible party but where all other 
requirements of relevant Assurance Standards are met. In such cases, the practitioner’s report includes a 
statement restricting the use of the report to the responsible party. 
 
Preconditions for an Assurance Engagement 
22. The following preconditions for an assurance engagement are relevant when considering whether an 
assurance engagement is to be accepted or continued:  
(a) The roles and responsibilities of the appropriate parties (that is, the responsible party, the 
measurer or evaluator, and the engaging party, as appropriate) are suitable in the circumstances; 
and 
(b) The engagement exhibits all of the following characteristics: 
(i) The underlying subject matter is appropriate; 
                                                                                                                                                                                                       
recommendations including actions, communication of results , and sometimes implementation and follow -up. Reports (if issued) 
are generally written in a narrative (or “long -form”) style. Generally the work performed is only for the use and benefit of the 
client. The nature and scope of work is determined by agreeme nt between the practitioner and the client. Any service that meets the 
definition of an assurance engagement is not a consulting engagement but an assurance engagement.  

<!-- page 123 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    123A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(ii) The criteria that the practitioner expects to be applied in the preparation of the subject 
matter information are suitable to the engage ment circumstances, including that they 
exhibit the characteristics described in paragraph 44; 
(iii) The criteria that the practitioner expects to be applied in the preparation of the subject 
matter information will be available to the intended users;  
(iv) The practitioner expects to be able to obtain the evidence needed to support the 
practitioner’s conclusion; 
(v) The practitioner ’s conclusion, in the form appropriate to either a reasonable assurance 
engagement or a limited assurance engagement, is to be contained in a written report; and 
(vi) A rational purpose including, in the case of a limited assurance engagement, that the 
practitioner expects to be able to obtain a meaningful level of assurance. 
23. The underlying subject matters of different assurance engag ements can vary greatly. Some underlying 
subject matters may require specialized skills and knowledge beyond those ordinarily possessed by an 
individual practitioner. It is important, however, that the practitioner be satisfied that those persons who 
are to perform the engagement collectively have the appropriate competence and capabilities (see also 
paragraph 31). 
24. When a potential engagement cannot be accepted as an assurance engagement, the engaging party may 
be able to identify a different engagement that will meet the needs of intended users. For example: 
(a) If the criteria that the practitioner expects to be applied are not suitable, an assurance engagement 
that meets the other preconditions in paragraph 22 may still be performed if: 
(i) The practitioner can identify one or more aspects of the underlying subject matter for which 
those criteria are suitable. In such cases, the practitioner could perform an assurance 
engagement with respect to that aspect of the underlying subject matter in its own ri ght. In 
such cases, the assurance report may need to clarify that the report does not relate to the 
original underlying subject matter in its entirety; or 
(ii) Alternative criteria suitable for the underlying subject matter can be selected or developed. 
 
(b) The engaging party may request an engagement that is not an assurance engagement, such as a 
consulting or an agreed-upon procedures engagement. 
25. Having been accepted, it is not appropriate to change an assurance engagement to a non -assurance 
engagement, or a reasonable assurance engagement to a limited assurance engagement, without 
reasonable justification. A change in circumstances that affects the intended users’ requirements, or a 
misunderstanding concerning the nature of the engagement, may justif y a request for a change in the 
engagement. If such a change is made, evidence that was obtained prior to the change is not disregarded. 
An inability to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence to form a reasonable assurance conclusion is not an 
acceptable r eason to change from a reasonable assurance engagement to a limited assurance 
engagement. 
 
Elements of an Assurance Engagement 
26. The following elements of an assurance engagement are discussed in this section: 
(a) A three party relationship involving a practitioner, a responsible party, and intended users; 
(b) An appropriate underlying subject matter; 

<!-- page 124 -->

124A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(c) Suitable criteria; 
(d) Sufficient appropriate evidence; and 
(e) A written assurance report in the form appropriate to a reasonable assurance engagement or a 
limited assurance engagement. 
 
Three Party Relationship 
27. All assurance engagements have at least three separate parties: the practitioner, the responsible party and 
the intended users. Depending on the engagement circumstances, there may also be a separate role of 
measurer or evaluator, or engaging party (see also Appendix 3). 
28. The responsible party and the intended users may be from different entities or the same entity. As an 
example of the latter case, in a two-tier board structure, the supervisory board may seek assurance about 
information provided by the executive board of that entity. The relationship between the responsible 
party and the intended users needs to be viewed within the context of a specific engagement and may 
differ from more t raditionally defined lines of responsibility. For example, an entity’s senior 
management (an intended user) may engage a practitioner to perform an assurance engagement on a 
particular aspect of the entity’s activities that is the immediate responsibility of a lower level of 
management (the responsible party), but for which senior management is ultimately responsible. 
 
Practitioner 
29. The “practitioner” is the individual(s) conducting the engagement (usually the engagement partner or 
other members of the e ngagement team, or, as applicable, the firm) by applying assurance skills and 
techniques to obtain reasonable assurance or limited assurance, as appropriate, about whether the subject 
matter information is free from material misstatement. 5  In a direct eng agement, the practitioner both 
measures or evaluates the underlying subject matter against the criteria and applies assurance skills and 
techniques to obtain reasonable assurance or limited assurance, as appropriate, about whether the 
outcome of that measurement or evaluation is free from material misstatement. 
30. If a competent practitioner other than a professional accountant in public practice chooses to represent 
compliance with an Assurance Standard, it is important to recognize that those Standards i nclude 
requirements that reflect the premise in the paragraph 5 regarding the CA Sri Lanka Code and SLSQC 1, 
or other professional requirements, or requirements in law or regulation that are at least as demanding. 
31. An engagement is not accepted if preliminary knowledge of the engagement circumstances indicates that 
ethical requirements regarding competence will not be satisfied. In some cases, these requirements can 
be satisfied by the practitioner using the work of a practitioner’s expert.  
32. In addition, the practitioner needs to be able to be sufficiently involved in the work of the practitioner’s 
expert and other assurance practitioners to an extent that is sufficient to accept responsibility for the 
assurance conclusion on the subject matter inform ation, and to obtain the evidence necessary to 
conclude whether the work of that expert or other assurance practitioner is adequate for the practitioner’s 
purposes.  
33. The practitioner has sole responsibility for the assurance conclusion expressed, and that responsibility is 
not reduced by the practitioner’s use of the work of a practitioner’s expert or other assurance 
practitioners. Nonetheless, if the practitioner using the work of a practitioner’s expert, having followed 
the relevant Assurance Standard s, concludes that the work of that expert is adequate for the 
practitioner’s purposes, the practitioner may accept that expert’s findings or conclusions in the expert’s 
field as appropriate evidence. 
 
                                                             
5  “Engagement partner” and “firm” should be read as referring to their public sector e quivalents where relevant. 

<!-- page 125 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    125A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Responsible Party 
34. The responsible party is the part y responsible for the underlying subject matter. In an attestation 
engagement, the responsible party is often also the measurer or evaluator. The responsible party may or 
may not be the party that engages the practitioner to perform the assurance engagemen t (the engaging 
party). 
Intended Users 
35. The intended users are the individual(s) or organization(s), or group(s) thereof that the practitioner 
expects will use the assurance report. The responsible party can be one of the intended users, but not the 
only one. 
36. In some cases, there may be intended users other than those to whom the assurance report is addressed. 
The practitioner may not be able to identify all those who will read the assurance report, particularly 
where a large number of people will ha ve access to it. In such cases, particularly where possible users 
are likely to have a broad range of interests in the underlying subject matter, intended users may be 
limited to major stakeholders with significant and common interests. Intended users may be identified in 
different ways, for example, by agreement between the practitioner and the responsible party or 
engaging party, or by law or regulation. 
37. Intended users or their representatives may be directly involved with the practitioner and the responsible 
party (and the engaging party if different) in determining the requirements of the engagement. 
Regardless of the involvement of others however, and unlike an agreed -upon procedures engagement 
(which involves reporting factual findings based upon the procedures agreed with the engaging party and 
any appropriate third parties, rather than a conclusion): 
(a) The practitioner is responsible for determining the nature, timing and extent of procedures; and 
(b) The practitioner may need to perform additional proc edures if information comes to the 
practitioner’s attention that differs significantly from that on which the determination of planned 
procedures was based.  
38. In some cases, intended users (for example, bankers and regulators) impose a requirement for, or 
request, the appropriate party(ies) to arrange for an assurance engagement to be performed for a specific 
purpose. When engagements use criteria that are designed for a specific purpose, the assurance report 
includes a statement alerting readers to this fact. In addition, the practitioner may consider it appropriate 
to indicate that the assurance report is intended solely for specific users. Depending on the engagement 
circumstances, this may be achieved by restricting the distribution or use of the assu rance report. While 
an assurance report may be restricted whenever it is intended only for specified intended users or for a 
specific purpose, the absence of a restriction regarding a particular user or purpose does not itself 
indicate that a legal responsibility is owed by the practitioner in relation to that user or for that purpose. 
Whether a legal responsibility is owed will depend on the circumstances of each case and the relevant 
jurisdiction. 
 
Underlying Subject Matter 
39. The underlying subject matter of an assurance engagement can take many forms, such as: 

<!-- page 126 -->

126A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 Historical financial performance or condition (for example, historical financial position, financial 
performance and cash flows) for which the subject matter information may be the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure represented in financial statements. 
 Future financial performance or condition (for example, prospective financial position, financial 
performance and cash flows) for which the subject matter information may be the re cognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure represented in a financial forecast or projection. 
 Non-financial performance or conditions (for example, performance of an entity) for which the 
subject matter information may be key indicators of efficiency and effectiveness. 
 Physical characteristics (for example, capacity of a facility) for which the subject matter information 
may be a specifications document. 
 Systems and processes (for example, an entity’s internal control or IT system) for which the subject 
matter information may be a statement about effectiveness. 
 Behavior (for example, corporate governance, compliance with regulation, human resource 
practices) for which the subject matter information may be a statement of compliance or a statement 
of effectiveness. 
Appendix 4 shows a categorization of the range of possible underlying subject matters with some 
examples. 
40. Different underlying subject matters have different characteristics, including the degree to which 
information about them is qualit ative versus quantitative, objective versus subjective, historical versus 
prospective, and relates to a point in time or covers a period. Such characteristics affect the: 
 
(a) Precision with which the underlying subject matter can be measured or evaluated agai nst criteria; 
and 
(b) The persuasiveness of available evidence. 
The assurance report may note characteristics that are of particular relevance to the intended users. 
41. The appropriateness of an underlying subject matter is not affected by the level of assura nce, that is, if 
an underlying subject matter is not appropriate for a reasonable assurance engagement, it is also not 
appropriate for a limited assurance engagement, and vice versa. An appropriate underlying subject 
matter is identifiable and capable of c onsistent measurement or evaluation against the identified criteria 
such that the resulting subject matter information can be subjected to procedures for obtaining sufficient 
appropriate evidence to support a reasonable assurance or limited assurance conclusion, as appropriate. 
Criteria 
42. Criteria are the benchmarks used to measure or evaluate the underlying subject matter. Criteria can be 
formal, for example in the preparation of financial statements, the criteria may be Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards or  Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standards; when reporting on the operating 
effectiveness of internal controls, the criteria may be based on an established internal control framework 
or individual control objectives specifically designed for the purpose ; and when reporting on 
compliance, the criteria may be the applicable law, regulation or contract. Examples of less formal 
criteria are an internally developed code of conduct or an agreed level of performance (such as the 
number of times a particular committee is expected to meet in a year). 
 
43. Suitable criteria are required for reasonably consistent measurement or evaluation of an underlying 
subject matter within the context of professional judgment. Without the frame of reference provided by 
suitable criteria, any conclusion is open to individual interpretation and misunderstanding. Suitable 

<!-- page 127 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    127A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
criteria are context -sensitive, that is, relevant to the engagement circumstances. Even for the same 
underlying subject matter there can be different criteria, whi ch will yield a different measurement or 
evaluation. For example, one of the criteria a measurer or evaluator might select as a measure of the 
underlying subject matter of customer satisfaction is the number of customer complaints resolved to the 
acknowledged satisfaction of the customer, while another measurer or evaluator might select the number 
of repeat purchases in the three months following the initial purchase. Further, criteria may be suitable 
for a particular set of engagement circumstances, but ma y not be suitable for a different set of 
engagement circumstances. For example, reporting to governments or regulators may require the use of 
a particular set of criteria, but these criteria may not be suitable for a broader group of users. 
44. Suitable criteria exhibit the following characteristics: 
(a) Relevance: Relevant criteria result in subject matter information that assists decision-making by 
the intended users. 
(b) Completeness: Criteria are complete when subject matter information prepared in accordance 
with them does not omit relevant factors that could reasonably be expected to affect decisions of 
the intended users made on the basis of that subject matter information. Complete criteria include, 
where relevant, benchmarks for presentation and disclosure. 
(c) Reliability: Reliable criteria allow reasonably consistent measurement or evaluation of the 
underlying subject matter including, where relevant, presentation and disclosure, when used in 
similar circumstances by different practitioners. 
(d) Neutrality: Neutral criteria result in subject matter information that is free from bias as 
appropriate in the engagement circumstances. 
(e) Understandability: Understandable criteria result in subject matter information that can be 
understood by the intended users.  
45. Vague descriptions of expectations or judgments of an individual’s experiences do not constitute 
suitable criteria. 
46. The relative importance of each of the above characteristics when assessing the suitability of criteria to a 
particular engagement is a matter of professional judgment. The suitability of criteria is not affected by 
the level of assurance, that is, if criteria are unsuitable for a reasonable assurance engagement, they are 
also unsuitable for a limited assurance engagement, and vice versa. Criteria may be prescribed by law or 
regulation, or issued by authorized or recognized bodies of experts that follow a transparent due process 
(established criteria). Other criteria may be specifically developed for the purpose of preparing t he 
subject matter information in the particular circumstances of the engagement. Whether criteria are 
established or specifically developed affects the work needed to assess their suitability for a particular 
engagement, for example, in the absence of indications to the contrary, established criteria are presumed 
to be suitable if they are relevant to the intended users’ information needs.  
47. Criteria need to be available to the intended users to allow them to understand how the underlying 
subject matter has been measured or evaluated. Criteria are made available to the intended users in one 
or more of the following ways: 
(a) Publicly. 
(b) Through inclusion in a clear manner in the presentation of the subject matter information. 
(c) Through inclusion in a clear manner in the assurance report. 
(d) By general understanding, for example the criterion for measuring time in hours and minutes. 

<!-- page 128 -->

128A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
48. Criteria may also be available only to specific intended users, for example the terms of a contract, or 
criteria issued by an industry association that are available only to those in the industry because they are 
relevant only to a specific purpose (see also paragraph 38). 
49. As part of the engagement, the practitioner determines whether the criteria are suitable. 
Evidence 
50 Assurance engagements are planned and performed with an attitude of professional skepticism to obtain 
sufficient appropriate evidence in the context of the engagement about the reported outcome of the 
measurement or evaluation of the underlying subj ect matter against the criteria. Professional judgment 
needs to be exercised in considering materiality, engagement risk, and the quantity and quality of 
available evidence when planning and performing the engagement, in particular when determining the 
nature, timing and extent of procedures. 
Professional Skepticism 
51. Professional skepticism is an attitude that includes being alert to, for example:  
(a) Evidence that is inconsistent with other evidence obtained; 
(b) Information that calls into question the reliability of documents and responses to inquiries to be used 
as evidence;  
(c) Circumstances that suggest the need for procedures in addition to those required by relevant 
Assurance Standards; and  
(d) Conditions that may indicate likely misstatement.  
52. Maintaining professional skepticism throughout the engagement is necessary to, for example, reduce the 
risk of: 
 Overlooking unusual circumstances; 
 Overgeneralizing when drawing conclusions from observations; and 
 Using inappropriate assumptions in determining the natu re, timing and extent of procedures and 
evaluating the results thereof. 
 
53. Professional skepticism is necessary to the critical assessment of evidence. This includes questioning 
inconsistent evidence and the reliability of documents and responses to inqu iries. It also includes 
consideration of the sufficiency and appropriateness of evidence obtained in the light of the 
circumstances. 
54. Unless the engagement involves assurance about whether documents are genuine, records and 
documents may be accepted as genuine unless the practitioner has reason to believe the contrary. 
Nevertheless, the practitioner considers the reliability of information to be used as evidence. 
55. The practitioner cannot be expected to disregard past experience of the honesty and inte grity of those 
who provide evidence. Nevertheless, a belief that those who provide evidence are honest and have 
integrity does not relieve the practitioner of the need to maintain professional skepticism. 
Professional Judgment 
56. Professional judgment is essential to the proper conduct of an assurance engagement. This is because 
interpretation of relevant ethical requirements and relevant Assurance Standards and the informed 
decisions required throughout the engagement cannot be made without the applicatio n of relevant 

<!-- page 129 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    129A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
training, knowledge and experience to the facts and circumstances. Professional judgment is necessary 
in particular regarding decisions about: 
 Materiality and engagement risk. 
 The nature, timing and extent of procedures used to meet the requi rements of relevant Assurance 
Standards and obtain evidence. 
 Evaluating whether sufficient appropriate evidence has been obtained, and whether more needs to 
be done to achieve the objectives of relevant Assurance Standards. In particular, in the case of a 
limited assurance engagement, professional judgment is required in evaluating whether a 
meaningful level of assurance has been obtained. 
 In the case of a direct engagement, applying the criteria to the underlying subject matter, and if the 
practitioner sel ects or develops the criteria, selecting or developing them. In the case of an 
attestation engagement, evaluating such judgments made by others. 
 The appropriate conclusions to draw based on the evidence obtained. 
57. The distinguishing feature of the profe ssional judgment expected of a practitioner is that it is exercised 
by a practitioner whose training, knowledge and experience have assisted in developing the necessary 
competencies to achieve reasonable judgments. 
 
58. The exercise of professional judgment in any particular case is based on the facts and circumstances that 
are known by the practitioner. Consultation on difficult or contentious matters during the course of the 
engagement, both within the engagement team and between the engagement team and o thers at the 
appropriate level within or outside the firm assist the practitioner in making informed and reasonable 
judgments. 
59. Professional judgment can be evaluated based on whether the judgment reached reflects a competent 
application of assurance and measurement or evaluation principles and is appropriate in the light of, and 
consistent with, the facts and circumstances that were known to the practitioner up to the date of the 
practitioner’s assurance report. 
60. Professional judgment needs to be exercised throughout the engagement. Professional judgment is not to 
be used as the justification for decisions that are not otherwise supported by the facts and circumstances 
of the engagement or sufficient appropriate evidence. 
Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Evidence 
61. The sufficiency and appropriateness of evidence are interrelated. Sufficiency is the measure of the 
quantity of evidence. The quantity of evidence needed is affected by the risks of the subject matter 
information being materially misstated (the higher the risks, the more evidence is likely to be required) 
and also by the quality of such evidence (the higher the quality, the less may be required). Obtaining 
more evidence, however, may not compensate for its poor quality (see also paragraphs 81–82). 
62. Appropriateness is the measure of the quality of evidence; that is, its relevance and its reliability in 
providing support for the practitioner’s conclusion.  
63. The reliability of evidence is influenced by its source and by its nature, and is dependent on the 
individual circumstances under which it is obtained. Generalizations about the reliability of various 
kinds of evidence can be made; however, such generalizations are subject to important exceptions. Even 

<!-- page 130 -->

130A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
when evidence is obtained from external sources, circumstances may exist that could affect its 
reliability. For example, evidence obtained from an external source may not be reliable if the source is 
not knowledgeable or objective. While recognizing that exceptions may exist, the follow ing 
generalizations about the reliability of evidence may be useful: 
 
 Evidence is more reliable when it is obtained from sources outside the appropriate party(ies). 
 Evidence that is generated internally is more reliable when the related controls are effective. 
 Evidence obtained directly by the practitioner (for example, observation of the application of a 
control) is more reliable than evidence obtained indirectly or by inference (for example, inquiry 
about the application of a control). 
 Evidence is more re liable when it exists in documentary form, whether paper, electronic, or other 
media (for example, a contemporaneously written record of a meeting is ordinarily more reliable 
than a subsequent oral representation of what was discussed). 
64. More assurance is ordinarily obtained from consistent evidence obtained from different sources or of a 
different nature than from items of evidence considered individually. In addition, obtaining evidence 
from different sources or of a different nature may either corrobo rate other evidence or indicate that an 
individual item of evidence is not reliable. When evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent with 
that obtained from another, it is necessary to determine what additional procedures are needed to resolve 
the inconsistency. 
65. In terms of obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence, it is generally more difficult to obtain assurance 
about subject matter information covering a period than about subject matter information at a point in 
time. In addition, conclusions provided on processes ordinarily are limited to the period covered by the 
engagement; the practitioner provides no conclusion about whether the process will continue to function 
in the specified manner in the future. 
66. Whether sufficient appropriate ev idence has been obtained on which to base the practitioner’s 
conclusion is a matter of professional judgment, which involves considering the relationship between the 
cost of obtaining evidence and the usefulness of the information obtained. The practitione r uses 
professional judgment and exercises professional skepticism in evaluating the quantity and quality of 
evidence, and thus its sufficiency and appropriateness, to support the assurance report. 
Materiality 
67. Materiality is relevant when planning and performing the assurance engagement, including when 
determining the nature, timing and extent of procedures, and when evaluating whether the subject matter 
information is free of misstatement. Professional judgments about materiality are made in light of 
surrounding circumstances, but are not affected by the level of assurance, that is, for the same intended 
users and purpose, materiality for a reasonable assurance engagement is the same as for a limited 
assurance engagement because materiality is based on the information needs of intended users. 
 
68. Misstatements, including omissions, are considered to be material if they, individually or in the 
aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence relevant decisions of intended users taken on the 
basis of the subject matter information. The practitioner’s consideration of materiality is a matter of 
professional judgment, and is affected by the practitioner’s perception of the common information needs 
of intended users as a group. Unless the engagement has b een designed to meet the particular 
information needs of specific users, the possible effect of misstatements on specific users, whose 
information needs may vary widely, is not ordinarily considered.  

<!-- page 131 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    131A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
69. Materiality is considered in the context of qualita tive factors and, when applicable, quantitative factors. 
The relative importance of qualitative and quantitative factors when considering materiality in a 
particular engagement is a matter for professional judgment. 
70. Materiality relates to the information covered by the practitioner’s assurance report. Therefore, when the 
engagement covers some, but not all aspects of the subject matter information, materiality is considered 
in relation to only that portion of the subject matter information that is covered by the engagement. 
Engagement Risk 
71. Subject matter information can fail to be properly expressed in the context of the underlying subject 
matter and the criteria, and can therefore be misstated, potentially to a material extent. This occurs when 
the subject matter information does not properly reflect the application of the criteria to measure or 
evaluate the underlying subject matter. 
72. Engagement risk is the risk that the practitioner expresses an inappropriate conclusion when the subject 
matter i nformation is materially misstated. Engagement risk does not refer to or include the 
practitioner’s business risks, such as loss from litigation, adverse publicity, or other events arising in 
connection with particular subject matter information.  
73. Reducing engagement risk to zero is very rarely attainable or cost beneficial and, therefore, “reasonable 
assurance” is less than absolute assurance, as a result of factors such as the following: 
 The use of selective testing. 
 The inherent limitations of internal control. 
 The fact that much of the evidence available to the practitioner is persuasive rather than conclusive. 
 The use of professional judgment in gathering and evaluating evidence and forming conclusions 
based on that evidence. 
 In some cases, the char acteristics of the underlying subject matter when measured or evaluated 
against the criteria. 
74. In general, engagement risk can be represented by the following components, although not all of these 
components will necessarily be present or significant for all assurance engagements: 
(a) Risks that the practitioner does not directly influence, which in turn consist of: 
(i) The susceptibility of the subject matter information to a material misstatement before 
consideration of any related controls applied by the appropriate party(ies) (inherent risk); and 
(ii) The risk that a material misstatement that occurs in the subject matter information will not be 
prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis by the appropriate party(ies)’s internal 
control (control risk); and 
(b) Risks that the practitioner does directly influence, which, in turn, consist of: 
(i) The risk that the procedures performed by the practitioner will not detect a material 
misstatement (detection risk); and 
(ii) In the case of a direct  engagement, the risks associated with the practitioner ’s measurement 
or evaluation of the underlying subject matter against the criteria (measurement or evaluation 
risk). 

<!-- page 132 -->

132A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
75. The degree to which each of these components is relevant to the engagement is af fected by the 
engagement circumstances, in particular: 
 The nature of the underlying subject matter and the subject matter information. For example, the 
concept of control risk may be more useful when the underlying subject matter relates to the 
preparation of information about an entity’s performance than when it relates to information about 
the effectiveness of a control or the existence of a physical condition. 
 Whether a reasonable assurance or a limited assurance engagement is being performed. For 
example, in limited assurance engagements the practitioner may often decide to obtain evidence by 
means other than testing of controls, in which case consideration of control risk may be less relevant 
than in a reasonable assurance engagement on the same subject matter information. 
 
 Whether it is a direct engagement or an attestation engagement. While the concept of control risk is 
relevant to attestation engagements, the broader concept of measurement or evaluation risk is more 
relevant to direct engagements. 
The consideration of risks is a matter of professional judgment, rather than a matter capable of precise 
measurement. 
 
Nature, Timing and Extent of Procedures 
76. A combination of procedures is typically used to obtain either reasonable assurance or limited assurance. 
Procedures may include:  
 Inspection;  
 Observation;  
 Confirmation;  
 Re-calculation;  
 Re-performance;  
 Analytical procedures; and  
 Inquiry.  
The exact nature, timing and extent of procedures will vary from one engagement to the next. For many 
assurance engagements, infinite variations in procedures are possible in theory . In practice, however, 
these are difficult to communicate clearly and unambiguously.  
77. Both reasonable assurance and limited assurance engagements require the application of assurance skills 
and techniques and the gathering of sufficient appropriate evidence as part of an iterative, systematic 
engagement process that includes obtaining an understanding of the underlying subject matter and other 
engagement circumstances.  
78. A reasonable assurance engagement involves:  
(a) Based on an understanding of the underlying subject matter and other engagement circumstances, 
identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the subject matter information; 
(b) Designing and performing  procedures to respond to the assessed risks and to obtain reasonable 
assurance to support the practitioner’s conclusion; and 
(c) Evaluating the sufficiency and appropriateness of the evidence obtained in the context of the 
engagement and, if necessary in the circumstances, attempting to obtain further evidence. 

<!-- page 133 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    133A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 
79. The nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence in a limited 
assurance engagement are limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. An underlying subject 
matter-specific Assurance Standard may establish that, for example, sufficient appropriate evidence for a 
particular type of limited assurance engagement is obtained primarily through analytical procedures and 
inquiries. In the absence of underlyin g subject matter -specific Assurance Standards for other types of 
limited assurance engagements, however, the procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence 
may or may not primarily be analytical procedures and inquiries and will vary with the circumstances of 
the engagement, in particular, the underlying subject matter, and the information needs of the intended 
users and the engaging party, including relevant time and cost constraints. Determining the nature, 
timing and extent of procedures is a matter of professional judgment and will vary from one engagement 
to the next. 
80. A limited assurance engagement involves: 
(a) Based on an understanding of the underlying subject matter and other engagement circumstances, 
identifying areas where a material misstatement of the subject matter information is likely to arise;  
(b) Designing and performing procedures to address those areas and to obtain limited assurance to 
support the practitioner’s conclusion; and 
(c) If the practitioner becomes aware of a matter(s) that causes the practitioner to believe the subject 
matter information may be materially misstated, designing and performing additional procedures to 
obtain further evidence. 
Quantity and Quality of Available Evidence 
81. The quantity or quality of available evidence is affected by: 
(a) The characteristics of the underlying subject matter and subject matter information. For example, 
less objective evidence might be expected when the subject matter information is future oriented 
rather than historical (see paragraph 40); and 
(b) Other circumstances such as when evidence that could reasonably be expected to exist is not 
available because of, for example, the timing of the practitioner’s appointment, an entity’s 
document retention policy, inadequate information systems, or a restriction imposed by the 
responsible party. 
Ordinarily , available evidence will be persuasive rather than conclusive. 
82. An unmodified conclusion is not appropriate for either a reasonable assurance or a limited assurance 
engagement when: 
(a) Circumstances prevent the practitioner from obtaining evidence required to reduce engagement risk 
to the appropriate level; or  
 
(b) A party to the engagement imposes a restriction that prevents the practitioner from obtaining 
evidence required to reduce engagement risk to the appropriate level. 

<!-- page 134 -->

134A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Assurance Report 
83. The practitioner forms a conclusion on the basis of the evidence obtained, and provides a written report 
containing a clear expression of that assurance conclusion about the subject matter information. 
Assurance Standards establish basic elements for assurance reports.  
84. In a reasonable assurance engagement, the practitioner’s conclusion is expressed in the positive form 
that conveys the practitioner’s opinion on the outcome of the measurement or evaluation o f the 
underlying subject matter. 
85. Examples of conclusions expressed in a form appropriate for a reasonable assurance engagement 
include: 
 When expressed in terms of the underlying subject matter and the applicable criteria,  “In our 
opinion, the entity has complied, in all material respects, with XYZ law;”  
 When expressed in terms of the subject matter information and the applicable criteria, “In our 
opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the 
entity as at [ date] and its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in 
accordance with XYZ framework;” or 
 When expressed in terms of a statement made by the appropriate party, “In our opinion, the 
[appropriate party’s] statement th at the entity has complied with XYZ law is, in all material 
respects, fairly stated,” or “In our opinion, the [appropriate party’s] statement that the key 
performance indicators are presented in accordance with XYZ criteria is, in all material respects, 
fairly stated.”  
In a direct engagement, the practitioner’s conclusion is phrased in terms of the underlying subject matter 
and the criteria. 
86. In a limited assurance engagement, the practitioner’s conclusion is expressed in a form that conveys 
whether, based on the engagement performed, a matter(s) has come to the practitioner’s attention to 
cause the practitioner to believe the subject matter information is materially misstated, for example, 
“Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, nothin g has come to our attention that 
causes us to believe that the entity has not complied, in all material respects, with XYZ law.”  
 
87. The practitioner may choose a “short -form” or “long -form” style of reporting to facilitate effective 
communication to the  intended users. “Short -form” reports ordinarily include only the basic elements. 
“Long-form” reports include other information and explanations that are not intended to affect the 
practitioner’s conclusion. As well as the basic elements, long -form reports may describe in detail the 
terms of the engagement, the criteria being used, findings relating to particular aspects of the 
engagement, details of the qualifications and experience of the practitioner and others involved with the 
engagement, disclosure of materiality levels, and, in some cases, recommendations. Whether to include 
any such information depends on its significance to the information needs of the intended users. 
88. The practitioner’s conclusion is clearly separated from information or explanations that are not intended 
to affect the practitioner’s conclusion, including any Emphasis of Matter, Other Matter, findings related 
to particular aspects of the engagement, recommendations or additional information included in the 
assurance report. The w ording used makes it clear that an Emphasis of Matter, Other Matter, findings, 
recommendations or additional information is not intended to detract from the practitioner’s conclusion.  
89. The practitioner expresses a modified conclusion in the following circumstances: 
(a) When, in the practitioner’s professional judgment, a scope limitation exists and the effect of the 
matter may be material. In such cases, the practitioner expresses a qualified conclusion or a 

<!-- page 135 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    135A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
disclaimer of conclusion. In some cases, the prac titioner considers withdrawing from the 
engagement. 
(b) When, in the practitioner’s professional judgment, the subject matter information is materially 
misstated. In such cases, the practitioner expresses a qualified conclusion or adverse conclusion. In 
those direct engagements where the subject matter information is the practitioner’s conclusion, and 
the practitioner concludes that some or all of the underlying subject matter does not, in all material 
respects, conform with the criteria, such a conclusion woul d also be considered to be qualified (or 
adverse as appropriate). 
90. A qualified conclusion is expressed when the effects, or possible effects, of a matter are not so material 
and pervasive as to require an adverse conclusion or a disclaimer of conclusion.  
91. If it is discovered after the engagement has been accepted that one or more preconditions for an 
assurance engagement is not present, the practitioner discusses the matter with the appropriate party(ies), 
and determines:  
(a) Whether the matter can be resolved to the practitioner’s satisfaction; 
(b) Whether it is appropriate to continue with the engagement; and 
 
(c) Whether and, if so, how to communicate the matter in the assurance report.  
92. If it is discovered after the engagement has been accepted that some  or all of the criteria are unsuitable 
or some or all of the underlying subject matter is not appropriate for an assurance engagement, the 
practitioner considers withdrawing from the engagement, if withdrawal is possible under applicable law 
or regulation. If the practitioner continues with the engagement, the practitioner expresses: 
(a) A qualified conclusion or adverse conclusion depending on how material and pervasive the matter 
is, when, in the practitioner’s professional judgment, the unsuitable criteria o r inappropriate 
underlying subject matter is likely to mislead the intended users; or 
(b) A qualified conclusion or a disclaimer of conclusion depending on, in the practitioner’s professional 
judgment, how material and pervasive the matter is, in other cases.  
Other Matters 
Other Communication Responsibilities  
93. The practitioner considers whether, pursuant to the terms of the engagement and other engagement 
circumstances, any matter has come to the attention of the practitioner that is to be communicated wit h 
the responsible party, the measurer or evaluator, the engaging party, those charged with governance or 
others.  
Documentation 
94. Engagement documentation provides a record of the basis for the assurance report when it is prepared on 
a timely basis and is sufficient and appropriate to enable an experienced practitioner, having no previous 
connection with the engagement, to understand: 
(a) The nature, timing and extent of the procedures performed to comply with relevant Assurance 
Standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements; 

<!-- page 136 -->

136A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(b) The results of the procedures performed, and the evidence obtained; and 
(c) Significant matters arising during the engagement, the conclusions reached thereon, and significant 
professional judgments made in reaching those conclusions. 
95. Engagement documentation includes how the practitioner addressed any inconsistency between 
information identified by the practitioner and the practitioner’s final conclusion regarding a significant 
matter. 
 
Inappropriate Use of the Practitioner’s Name 
96. A practitioner is associated with an underlying subject matter, or with the related subject matter 
information, when the practitioner reports on information about that underlying subject matter or 
consents to the use of the practitioner’s name in a professional connection with that underlying subject 
matter, or with the related subject matter information. If the practitioner is not associated in this manner, 
third parties can assume no responsibility of the practitioner. If the practitioner learns that a party is 
inappropriately using the practitioner’s name in association with an underlying subject matter, or with 
the related subject matter information, the practitioner requires the party to cease doing so. The 
practitioner also considers what othe r steps may be needed, such as informing any known third party 
users of the inappropriate use of the practitioner’s name or seeking legal advice. 
Appendix 1 
 
Pronouncements Issued by the Council of CA Sri Lanka, and Their Relationship to Each Other and the  CA 
Sri Lanka Code. 
 
This Appendix illustrates the ambit of pronouncements issued by the CA Sri Lanka, and their relationship to 
each other and to the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code). 
 
 
Engagements Governed by the Standards Issued by CA Sri Lanka  
SLSAE 3000–3699 
Sri Lanka Standards on 
Assurance Engagements 
Other Assurance 
Engagements  
SLSRS 4000–4699 
Sri Lanka Standards on 
Related Services 
Related Services 
Engagements 
Tax 
Consult
ing/Ad
visory 
Sri Lanka Framework for Assurance Engagements 
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code) 
Engagements Not Governed by the Standards 
Issued by CA Sri Lanka  
 
SLSRE 2000–
2699 
Sri Lanka 
Standards on 
Review 
Engagements 
SLAuS 
100–999 
Sri Lanka 
Auditing 
Standar
ds  
Audits and Reviews of 
Historical Financial 
Information 
SLSQC 1-99 Sri Lanka Standards on Quality Control  
Other  
Service 

<!-- page 137 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    137A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Appendix 2 
Attestation Engagements and Direct Engagements 
This Appendix outlines the differences between an attestation engagement and a direct engagement. 
1. In an attestation engagement, the measurer or evaluator, who is not the practitioner, measures or 
evaluates the underlying subject matter against the criteria, the outcome of which is the subject matter 
information. Subject matter information can fail to be properly expressed in the context of the 
underlying subject matter and the criteria, and can therefore be misstated, pot entially to a material 
extent. The role of the practitioner in an attestation engagement is to obtain sufficient appropriate 
evidence in order to express a conclusion about whether the subject matter information, as prepared by 
the measurer or evaluator, is free from material misstatement. 
2. In a direct engagement, the practitioner measures or evaluates the underlying subject matter against 
the criteria and presents the resulting subject matter information as part of, or accompanying the 
assurance report. The practitioner’s conclusion in a direct engagement addresses the reported outcome 
of the measurement or evaluation of the underlying subject matter against the criteria. In some direct 
engagements, the practitioner’s conclusion is, or is part of, the subjec t matter information. Depending 
on the underlying subject matter: 
(a) The outcome of the measurement or evaluation in a direct engagement may be similar to a 
report or statement prepared by the measurer or evaluator in an attestation engagement. In other 
circumstances, however, the outcome, that is, the subject matter information, may be reflected 
in the description of the findings and basis for the practitioner’s conclusion in a long -form 
assurance report; and 
(b) The practitioner may use data collected or compiled by others. For example, the data may come 
from an information system maintained by the responsible party. 
 
3. In addition to measuring or evaluating the underlying subject matter, in a direct engagement the 
practitioner also applies assurance skills and techniques to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence in order 
to express a conclusion about whether the subject matter information is materially misstated. The 
practitioner may obtain that evidence simultaneously with the measurement or evaluation of the 
underlying subject matter, but may also obtain it before or after such measurement or evaluation. 
 
4. The value of a direct engagement lies in the combination of: 
(a) The independence of the practitioner from the underlying subject matter, the engaging part y, 
intended users and the responsible party, notwithstanding that the practitioner is not independent 
of the subject matter information because the practitioner prepared the subject matter 
information; and 
(b) The assurance skills and techniques applied wh en measuring or evaluating the underlying 
subject matter, which results in the accumulation of evidence that is of a similar quantity and 
quality as for an attestation engagement. It is this obtaining of sufficient appropriate evidence 
that distinguishes a  direct engagement from a mere compilation. To illustrate this point, if a 
practitioner were compiling an entity’s greenhouse gas statement, the practitioner would not, for 
example, test the calibration of monitoring devices. In a direct engagement, howeve r, the 
practitioner would, where relevant, either calibrate monitoring devices as part of the 
measurement process, or test the calibration of monitoring devices performed by others to the 
same extent as would be the case if the engagement were an attestation engagement. 

<!-- page 138 -->

138A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Appendix 3 
 
The Parties to an Assurance Engagement 
 
 
 
 
 
1. All assurance engagements have at least three parties: the responsible party, the practitioner, and the 
intended users. Depending on the engagement circumstances, there may also be a separate role of 
measurer or evaluator, or engaging party.  
2. The above diagram illustrates how the following roles relate to an assurance engagement: 
a. The responsible party is responsible for the underlying subject matter. 
b. The measurer or evaluator uses the criteria to measure or evaluate the underlying subject matter 
resulting in the subject matter information. 
c. The engaging party agrees the terms of the engagement with the practitioner. 
d. The practitioner obtains sufficient appropriate evidence in order to express a conclusion designed 
to enhance the degree of confidence of the intended users other than the responsible party about 
the subject matter information. 
e. The intended users make decisions on the basis of the subject matter information. The intended 
users are the individual(s) or organization(s), or group(s) thereof that the practitioner expects will 
use the assurance report. In some cases, there may be intended users other than those to whom the 
assurance report is addressed. 
3. The following observations can be made about these roles: 

<!-- page 139 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    139A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 Every assurance engagement has at least a responsible party and intended users, in addition to the 
practitioner. 
 The practitioner cannot be the responsible party, the engaging party or an intended user. 
 In a direct engagement, the practitioner is also the measurer or evaluator. 
 In an attestation engagement, the responsible party, or someone else, but not the practitioner, can be 
the measurer or evaluator. 
 Where the practitioner has measured or evaluated the underlying subject  matter against the criteria, 
the engagement is a direct engagement. The character of that engagement cannot be changed to an 
attestation engagement by another party assuming responsibility for the measurement or evaluation, 
for example, by the responsible  party attaching a statement to the subject matter information 
accepting responsibility for it. 
 The responsible party can be the engaging party. 
 In many attestation engagements the responsible party may also be the measurer or evaluator, and 
the engaging p arty. An example is when an entity engages a practitioner to perform an assurance 
engagement regarding a report it has prepared about its own sustainability practices. An example of 
when the responsible party is different from the measurer or evaluator is when the practitioner is 
engaged to perform an assurance engagement regarding a report prepared by a government 
organization about a private company’s sustainability practices. 
 In an attestation engagement, the measurer or evaluator ordinarily provides the  practitioner with a 
written representation about the subject matter information. In some cases, the practitioner may not 
be able to obtain such a representation, for example, when the engaging party is not the measurer or 
evaluator. 
 The responsible party can be one of the intended users, but not the only one. 
 The responsible party, the measurer or evaluator, and the intended users may be from different 
entities or the same entity. As an example of the latter case, in a two -tier board structure, the 
supervisory board may seek assurance about information provided by the executive board of that 
entity. The relationship between the responsible party, the measurer or evaluator, and the intended 
users needs to be viewed within the context of a specific engagement  and may differ from more 
traditionally defined lines of responsibility. For example, an entity’s senior management (an 
intended user) may engage a practitioner to perform an assurance engagement on a particular aspect 
of the entity’s activities that is th e immediate responsibility of a lower level of management (the 
responsible party), but for which senior management is ultimately responsible. 
 An engaging party that is not also the responsible party can be the intended user. 
4. The practitioner’s conclusion may be phrased either in terms of:  
 The underlying subject matter and the applicable criteria; 
 The subject matter information and the applicable criteria; or  
 A statement made by the appropriate party. 
5. The practitioner and the responsible party may ag ree to apply the principles of the Assurance 
Standards to an engagement when there are no intended users other than the responsible party but 
where all other requirements of the Assurance Standards are met. In such cases, the practitioner’s 
report includes a statement restricting the use of the report to the responsible party. 
 

<!-- page 140 -->

140A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Appendix 4 
 
Categorization of Underlying Subject Matters 
 
The table below shows a categorization of the range of possible underlying subject matters with some 
examples. For some cate gories no example is given because it is unlikely that assurance engagements with 
respect to information in these categories would be undertaken. The categorization is not necessarily 
complete, the categories are not necessarily mutually exclusive, and som e underlying subject matter or 
subject matter information may have components in more than one category, for example, integrated 
reporting and corporate social responsibility reporting will likely have both historical and future -oriented 
information and bo th financial and non -financial information. Also, in some cases, the examples are the 
subject matter information, in other cases they are the underlying subject matter or merely an indication of 
the type of question that information could assist with, whichever is more meaningful in the circumstances. 
 
 
Information about: Historical Information Future Oriented Information 
Financial Performance Financial Statements prepared in 
accordance with an acceptable 
financial reporting framework 
 Forecast/projected cash flow 
Position  Forecast/projected financial position 
Non-
Financial 
Performance 
Use of 
Resources/ 
Value for Money 
 Greenhouse Gas Statement  
 Sustainability Report 
 KPIs 
 Statement on effective use of resources 
 Statement on Value for Money 
 Corporate social responsibility 
reporting 
 Expected emissions reductions 
attributable to a new technology, or 
Greenhouse Gases to be captured by 
planting trees 
 Statement that a proposed action will 
provide value for money 
Condition  Description of a system/process as 
implemented at a point in time 
 Physical characteristics, for example, 
the size of leased property 
 
System/ 
Process 
Description  The description of a system of internal 
control 
 
Design  The design of controls at a service 
organization 
 The design of proposed controls for a 
forthcoming production process 
Operation/ 
Performance 
 The operating effectiveness of 
procedures for hiring and training staff 
 
Aspects 
of 
Behavior 
Compliance  An entity’s compliance with, for 
example, loan covenants, or specific 
legal or regulatory requirements 
 
Human 
Behavior 
 Evaluation of audit committee 
effectiveness 
 

<!-- page 141 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    141A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Information about: Historical Information Future Oriented Information 
Other  The fitness for purpose of a software 
package 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 142 -->

142A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 260 (REVISED) 
COMMUNICATION WITH THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending  
on or after 31 March 2018) 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS ………………………………………………………………………………… 1–3 
The Role of Communication ………………………………………………………………………… 4–7 
Effective Date ………………………………………………………………………...…………....… 8 
Objectives …………………………………………………………………………..………………    9 
Definitions ................................ ................................ ....................   …………………….………….  10 
Requirements 
Those Charged with Governance ………………………………………………….………………. 11–13 
Matters to Be Communicated …………………………………………………………….…………. 14–17 
The Communication Process ……………………………………………………………….……… 18–22 
Documentation ………………………………………………………………………………..……. 23 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Those Charged with Governance ………………………………………………………………….... A1–A8 
Matters to Be Communicated …………………………………………………………….………… A9–A36 
The Communication Process  …………………………………………………………………….. A37–A53 
Documentation ………………………………………………………………….…………………. A54 
Appendix 1: Specific Requirements in SLSQC 1 and Other SLAuSs that Refer to Communications with Those 
Charged with Governance 
Appendix 2: Qualitative Aspects of Accounting Practices 
 
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with 
Governance, should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent 
Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 143 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    143A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor ’s responsibility to communicate w ith 
those charged with governance in an audit of financial statements. Although this SLAuS applies 
irrespective of an entity’s governance structure or size, particular considerations apply where all of those 
charged with governance are involved in managing an entity , and for listed entities. This SLAuS does not 
establish requirements regarding the auditor ’s communication with an entity ’s management or owners 
unless they are also charged with a governance role. 
2. This SLAuS is written in the context of an audi t of financial statements, but may also be applicable, 
adapted as necessary in the circumstances, to audits of other historical financial information when those 
charged with governance have a responsibility to oversee the preparation of the other historica l financial 
information.  
3. Recognizing the importance of effective two-way communication in an audit of financial statements, this 
SLAuS provides an overarching framework for the auditor ’s communication with those charged with 
governance, and identifies some specific matters to be communicated with them. Additional matters to be 
communicated, which complement the requirements of this SLAuS, are identified in other SLAuSs (see 
Appendix 1). In addition, SLAuS 2651  establishes specific requirements regarding the communication of 
significant deficiencies in internal control the auditor has identified during the audit to those charged with 
governance. Further matters, not required by this or other SLAuSs, may be required to be communicated 
by law or regulation, b y agreement with the entity , or by additional requirements applicable to the 
engagement, for example, the standards of a national professional accountancy body. Nothing in this 
SLAuS precludes the auditor from communicating any other matters to those charg ed with governance. 
(Ref: Para. A33–A36) 
 
The Role of Communication 
4. This SLAuS focuses primarily on communications from the auditor to those charged with governance. 
Nevertheless, effective two-way communication is important in assisting:  
(a) The auditor and those charged with governance in understanding matters related to the audit in 
context, and in developing a constructive working relationship. This relationship is developed while 
maintaining the auditor’s independence and objectivity;  
(b) The auditor in obtaining from those charged with governance information relevant to the audit. For 
example, those charged with governance may assist the auditor in understanding the entity and its 
environment, in identifying appropriate sources of audit evidence, and  in providing information 
about specific transactions or events; and  
(c) Those charged with governance in fulfilling their responsibility to oversee the financial reporting 
process, thereby reducing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. 
5. Although the auditor is responsible for communicating matters required by this SLAuS, management 
also has a responsibility to communicate matters of governance interest to those charged with 
governance. Communication by the auditor does not relieve management of this responsibility . Similarly , 
communication by management with those charged with governance of matters that the auditor is 
required to communicate does not relieve the auditor of the responsibility to also communicate them. 
                                                             
1  SLAuS 265, Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and Management  

<!-- page 144 -->

144A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Communication of these matters by management may , however, affect the form or timing of the auditor’s 
communication with those charged with governance.  
6. Clear communication of specific matters required to be communicated by SLAuSs is an integral part of 
every audit. SLAuSs do not, however, require the auditor to perform procedures specifically to identify 
any other matters to communicate with those charged with governance.  
7. In some jurisdictions, law or regulation may restrict the auditor ’s communication of certain matters with 
those charged with governance. Law or regulation s may specifically prohibit a communication, or other 
action, that might prejudice an investigation by an appropriate authority into an actual, or suspected, 
illegal act, including alerting the entity , for example, when the auditor is required to report identified or 
suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations to an appropriate authority pursuant to anti -money 
laundering legislation. In these circumstances, the issues considered by the auditor may b e complex and 
the auditor may consider it appropriate to obtain legal advice. 
 
Effective Date 
8. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after 31 March 2018. 
 
Objectives 
9. The objectives of the auditor are:  
 To communicate clearly with those charged with governance the responsibilities of the auditor in 
relation to the financial statement audit, and an overview of the planned scope and timing of the 
audit;  
 To obtain from those charged with governance information relevant to the audit;  
 To provide those charged with governance with timely observations arising from the audit that are 
significant and relevant to their responsibility to oversee the financial reporting process; and  
 To promote effective two -way communicatio n between the auditor and those charged with 
governance.  
Definitions 
10. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:  
 Those charged with governance – The person(s) or organization(s) (e.g., a corporate trustee) with 
responsibility for overseeing the strategic direction of the entity and obligations related to the 
accountability of the entity. This includes overseeing the financial reporting process. For some 
entities in some jurisdictions, those charged with governance may include management personnel, 
for example, executive members of a governance board of a private or public sector entity, or an 
owner-manager. For discussion of the diversity of governance structures, see paragraphs A1–A8. 
 Management – The person(s) with  executive responsibility for the conduct of the entity’s 
operations. For some entities in some jurisdictions, management includes some or all of those 
charged with governance, for example, executive members of a governance board, or an owner -
manager.  
Requirements 
Those Charged with Governance 
11. The auditor shall determine the appropriate person(s) within the entity’s governance structure with whom 
to communicate. (Ref: Para. A1–A4) 

<!-- page 145 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    145A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 
Communication with a Subgroup of Those Charged with Governance  
12. If the audi tor communicates with a subgroup of those charged with governance, for example, an audit 
committee, or an individual, the auditor shall determine whether the auditor also needs to communicate 
with the governing body . (Ref: Para. A5–A7) 
 
When All of Those Charged with Governance Are Involved in Managing the Entity 
13. In some cases, all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity , for example, a 
small business where a single owner manages the entity and no one else has a governance role.  In these 
cases, if matters required by this SLAuS are communicated with person(s) with management 
responsibilities, and those person(s) also have governance responsibilities, the matters need not be 
communicated again with those same person(s) in their go vernance role. These matters are noted in 
paragraph 16(c). The auditor shall nonetheless be satisfied that communication with person(s) with 
management responsibilities adequately informs all of those with whom the auditor would otherwise 
communicate in their governance capacity . (Ref: Para. A8) 
Matters to Be Communicated  
The Auditor’s Responsibilities in Relation to the Financial Statement Audit 
14. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance the responsibilities of the auditor in 
relation to the financial statement audit, including that:  
(a) The auditor is responsible for forming and expressing an opinion on the financial statements that 
have been prepared by management with the oversight of those charged with governance; and  
(b) The audit of the financial statements does not relieve management or those charged with 
governance of their responsibilities. (Ref: Para. A9–A10) 
Planned Scope and Timing of the Audit 
15. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance an overview o f the planned scope 
and timing of the audit, which includes communicating about the significant risks identified by the 
auditor. (Ref: Para. A11–A16) 
 
Significant Findings from the Audit  
16. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance: (Ref: Para. A17–A18) 
(a) The auditor’s views about significant qualitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices, 
including accounting policies, accounting estimates and financial statement disclosures. When 
applicable, the auditor shall explain to those charged with governance why the auditor considers a 
significant accounting practice, that is acceptable under the applicable financial reporting 
framework, not to be most appropriate to the particular circumstances of the entity; (Ref: Para. A19–
A20) 
(b) Significant difficulties, if any, encountered during the audit; (Ref: Para. A21)  
 Unless all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity:  
(i) Significant matters arising during the audit that were discussed, or subject to 
correspondence, with management; and (Ref: Para. A22)  
(ii) Written representations the auditor is requesting;  

<!-- page 146 -->

146A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 Circumstances that affect the form and content of the auditor’s report, if any; and (Ref: Para. A23–
A25)  
 Any other significant matters arising during the audit t hat, in the auditor’s professional judgment, 
are relevant to the oversight of the financial reporting process. (Ref: Para. A26–A28)  
 
Auditor Independence  
17. In the case of listed entities, the auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance:  
(a) A statement that the engagement team and others in the firm as appropriate, the firm and, when 
applicable, network firms have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence; and 
(i) All relationships and other matters between the firm, n etwork firms, and the entity that, in 
the auditor’s professional judgment, may reasonably be thought to bear on independence. 
This shall include total fees charged during the period covered by the financial statements 
for audit and non -audit services provi ded by the firm and network firms to the entity and 
components controlled by the entity . These fees shall be allocated to categories that are 
appropriate to assist those charged with governance in assessing the effect of services on 
the independence of the auditor; and  
(ii) The related safeguards that have been applied to eliminate identified threats to 
independence or reduce them to an acceptable level. (Ref: Para. A29–A32) 
 
The Communication Process 
Establishing the Communication Process 
18. The auditor shall com municate with those charged with governance the form, timing and expected 
general content of communications. (Ref: Para. A37–A45) 
Forms of Communication 
19. The auditor shall communicate in writing with those charged with governance regarding significant 
findings from the audit if, in the auditor ’s professional judgment, oral communication would not be 
adequate. Written communications need not include all matters that arose during the course of the audit. 
(Ref: Para. A46–A48) 
20. The auditor shall communicate in wr iting with those charged with governance regarding auditor 
independence when required by paragraph 17.  
Timing of Communications 
21. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance on a timely basis. (Ref: Para. A 49–
A50) 
Adequacy of the Communication Process  
22. The auditor shall evaluate whether the two -way communication between the auditor and those charged 
with governance has been adequate for the purpose of the audit. If it has not, the auditor shall evaluate 
the effect, if any , on the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement and ability to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence, and shall take appropriate action. (Ref: Para. A51–A53)  

<!-- page 147 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    147A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Documentation 
23. Where matters required by this SLAuS to be communicated are communicated  orally , the auditor shall 
include them in the audit documentation, and when and to whom they were communicated. Where 
matters have been communicated in writing, the auditor shall retain a copy of the communication as part 
of the audit documentation.2 (Ref: Para. A54) 
*** 
 
Application and Other Explanatory Material  
Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 11) 
A1 Governance structures vary by jurisdiction and by entity , reflecting influences such as different cultural 
and legal backgrounds, and size and ownership characteristics. For example:  
 In some jurisdictions, a supervisory (wholly or mainly non -executive) board exists that is legally 
separate from an executive (management) board (a “two -tier board” structure). In other 
jurisdictions, both the supervisory and executive functions are the legal responsibility of a single, 
or unitary, board (a “one-tier board” structure).  
 In some entities, those charged with governance hold positions that are an integral part of the 
entity’s legal structure, for example, company directors. In others, for example, some government 
entities, a body that is not part of the entity is charged with governance. 
 In some cases, some or all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity. 
In others, those charged with governance and management comprise different persons. 
 In some cases, those charged with governance are responsible for approving3 the entity’s financial 
statements (in other cases management has this responsibility). 
A2 In most entities, governance is the collective responsibility of a governing body, such as a board of 
directors, a supervisory board, partners, proprietors, a committee of management, a council of governors, 
trustees, or equivalent persons. In some smaller entities, however, one perso n may be charged with 
governance, for example, the owner -manager where there are no other owners, or a sole trustee. When 
governance is a collective responsibility, a subgroup such as an audit committee or even an individual, 
may be charged with specific t asks to assist the governing body in meeting its responsibilities. 
Alternatively, a subgroup or individual may have specific, legally identified responsibilities that differ 
from those of the governing body.  
A3 Such diversity means that it is not possible  for this SLAuS to specify for all audits the person(s) with 
whom the auditor is to communicate particular matters. Also, in some cases, the appropriate person(s) 
with whom to communicate may not be clearly identifiable from the applicable legal framework or 
other engagement circumstances, for example, entities where the governance structure is not formally 
defined, such as some family -owned entities, some not -for-profit organizations, and some government 
                                                             
2  SLAuS 230, Audit Documentation, paragraphs 8–11 and A6 
3  As described in paragraph A68 of SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements , having 
responsibility for approving in this context means having the authority to conclude that all the statements that comprise the  
financial statements, including the related notes, have been prepared.  

<!-- page 148 -->

148A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
entities. In such cases, the auditor may need to dis cuss and agree with the engaging party the relevant 
person(s) with whom to communicate. In deciding with whom to communicate, the auditor ’s 
understanding of an entity ’s governance structure and processes obtained in accordance with SLAuS 
315 (Revised)4 is relevant. The appropriate person(s) with whom to communicate may vary depending 
on the matter to be communicated. 
A4 SLAuS 600 includes specific matters to be communicated by group auditors with those charged with 
governance.5 When the entity is a componen t of a group, the appropriate person(s) with whom the 
component auditor communicates depends on the engagement circumstances and the matter to be 
communicated. In some cases, a number of components may be conducting the same businesses within 
the same system of internal control and using the same accounting practices. Where those charged with 
governance of those components are the same (e.g., common board of directors), duplication may be 
avoided by dealing with these components concurrently for the purpose of communication. 
Communication with a Subgroup of Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 12) 
A5 When considering communicating with a subgroup of those charged with governance, the auditor may 
take into account such matters as:  
 The respective responsibilities of the subgroup and the governing body.  
 The nature of the matter to be communicated.  
 Relevant legal or regulatory requirements. 
 Whether the subgroup has the authority to take action in relation to the information 
communicated, and can provide further information and explanations the auditor may need.  
A6 When deciding whether there is also a need to communicate information, in full or in summary form, 
with the governing body , the auditor may be influenced by the auditor’s assessment of how effectively 
and appropriately the subgroup communicates relevant information with the governing body . The 
auditor may make explicit in agreeing the terms of engagement that, unless prohibited by law or 
regulation, the auditor retains the right to communicate directly with the governing body .  
A7 Audit committees (or similar subgroups with different names) exist in many jurisdictions. Although 
their specific authority and functions may differ, communication with the audit committee, where one 
exists, has become a  key element in the auditor ’s communication with those charged with governance. 
Good governance principles suggest that:  
 The auditor will be invited to regularly attend meetings of the audit committee. 
 The chair of the audit committee and, when relevant, the other members of the audit committee, 
will liaise with the auditor periodically. 
 The audit committee will meet the auditor without management present at least annually.  
                                                             
4  SLAuS 315 (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its 
Environment 
5  SLAuS 600, Special Considerations —Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors) , 
paragraph 49 

<!-- page 149 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    149A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
When All of Those Charged with Governance Are Involved in Managing the Entity (Ref: Para.13) 
A8 In some cases, all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity , and the 
application of communication requirements is modified to recognize this position. In such cases, 
communication with person(s) with management responsibilities may not adequately inform all of those 
with whom the auditor would otherwise communicate in their governance capacity . For example, in a 
company where all directors are involved in managing the entity , some of those directors (e.g., one 
responsible for marketing) may be unaware of significant matters discussed with another director (e.g., 
one responsible for the preparation of the financial statements).   
Matters to Be Communicated 
The Auditor’s Responsibilities in Relation to the Financial Statement Audit (Ref: Para. 14) 
A9 The auditor ’s responsibilities in relation to the financial statement audit are often included in the 
engagement letter or other suitable form of written agreement that records the agreed terms of the 
engagement.6 Law, regulation or the governance structure of the entity may require those charged with 
governance to agree the terms of the engagement with the auditor. When this is not the case, providing 
those charged with governance with a copy of that engagement letter or ot her suitable form of written 
agreement may be an appropriate way to communicate with them regarding such matters as:  
 The auditor’s responsibility for performing the audit in accordance with SLAuSs, which is 
directed towards the expression of an opinion on  the financial statements. The matters that 
SLAuSs require to be communicated, therefore, include significant matters arising during the audit 
of the financial statements that are relevant to those charged with governance in overseeing the 
financial reporting process.  
 The fact that SLAuSs do not require the auditor to design procedures for the purpose of 
identifying supplementary matters to communicate with those charged with governance.  
 When SLAuS 7017 applies, the auditor’s responsibilities to determine and communicate key audit 
matters in the auditor’s report.  
 When applicable, the auditor’s responsibility for communicating particular matters required by 
law or regulation, by agreement with the entity or by additional requirements applicable to the 
engagement, for example, the standards of a national professional accountancy body. 
A10 Law or regulation, an agreement with the entity or additional requirements applicable to the 
engagement may provide for broader communication with those charged with govern ance. For 
example, (a) an agreement with the entity may provide for particular matters to be communicated when 
they arise from services provided by a firm or network firm other than the financial statement audit; or 
(b) the mandate of a public sector audit or may provide for matters to be communicated that come to 
the auditor’s attention as a result of other work, such as performance audits. 
Planned Scope and Timing of the Audit (Ref: Para. 15) 
A11 Communication regarding the planned scope and timing of the audit may:  
                                                             
6  See paragraph 10 of SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements . 
7  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report  

<!-- page 150 -->

150A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(a) Assist those charged with governance to understand better the consequences of the auditor’s work, 
to discuss issues of risk and the concept of materiality with the auditor, and to identify any areas in 
which they may request the auditor to undertake additional procedures; and  
 
(b) Assist the auditor to understand better the entity and its environment. 
A12 Communicating significant risks identified by the auditor helps those charged with governance 
understand those matters and why they require speci al audit consideration. The communication about 
significant risks may assist those charged with governance in fulfilling their responsibility to oversee the 
financial reporting process.  
A13 Matters communicated may include:  
 How the auditor plans to addre ss the significant risks of material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.  
 How the auditor plans to address areas of higher assessed risks of material misstatement.  
 The auditor’s approach to internal control relevant to the audit. 
 The application of the concept of materiality in the context of an audit.8 
 The nature and extent of specialized skill or knowledge needed to perform the planned audit 
procedures or evaluate the audit results, including the use of an auditor’s expert.9 
 When SLAuS 701 appli es, the auditor’s preliminary views about matters that may be areas of 
significant auditor attention in the audit and therefore may be key audit matters.  
 The auditor’s planned approach to addressing the implications on the individual statements and the 
disclosures of any significant changes within the applicable financial reporting framework or in 
the entity’s environment, financial condition or activities. 
A14 Other planning matters that it may be appropriate to discuss with those charged with governance 
include: 
 Where the entity has an internal audit function, how the external auditor and internal auditors can 
work together in a constructive and complementary manner, including any planned use of the 
work of the internal audit function, and the nature and extent of any planned use of internal 
auditors to provide direct assistance.10 
 The views of those charged with governance about: 
o The appropriate person(s) in the entity’s governance structure with whom to communicate. 
o The allocation of responsibilities between those charged with governance and management. 
o The entity’s objectives and strategies, and the related business risks that may result in material 
misstatements. 
o Matters those charged with governance consider warrant particular attention during the audit , 
and any areas where they request additional procedures to be undertaken. 
                                                             
8  SLAuS 320, Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit  
9  See SLAuS 620, Using the Work of an Auditor’s Expert.  
10  SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013), Using the Work of Internal Auditors, paragraphs 20 and 31  

<!-- page 151 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    151A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
o Significant communications between the entity and regulators. 
o Other matters those charged with governance consider may influence the audit of the financial 
statements. 
 The attitudes, awareness, and actions of those charged with governance concerning (a) the entity’s 
internal control and its importance in the entity, including how those charged with governance 
oversee the effectiveness of internal control, and (b) the detection or possibility of fraud. 
 The actions of those charged with governance in response to developments in accounting 
standards, corporate governance practices, exchange listing rules, and related matters, and the 
effect of such developments on, for example, the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
financial statements, including: 
o The relevance, reliability, comparability and understandability of the information presented in 
the financial statements; and 
o Considering whether the financial statements are un dermined by the inclusion of information 
that is not relevant or that obscures a proper understanding of the matters disclosed. 
 The responses of those charged with governance to previous communications with the auditor.  
 The documents comprising the other information (as defined in SLAuS 720 (Revised)) and the 
planned manner and timing of the issuance of such documents. When the auditor expects to obtain 
other information after the date of the auditor’s report, the discussions with those charged with 
governance may also include the actions that may be appropriate or necessary if the auditor 
concludes that a material misstatement of the other information exists in other information 
obtained after the date of the auditor’s report. 
A15 While communication with those charged with governance may assist the auditor to plan the scope and 
timing of the audit, it does not change the auditor’s sole responsibility to establish the overall audit 
strategy and the audit plan, including the nature, timing and extent of proc edures necessary to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence. 
A16 Care is necessary when communicating with those charged with governance about the planned scope 
and timing of the audit so as not to compromise the effectiveness of the audit, particularly where some 
or all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity. For example, 
communicating the nature and timing of detailed audit procedures may reduce the effectiveness of 
those procedures by making them too predictable.  
Significant Findings from the Audit (Ref: Para. 16) 
A17 The communication of findings from the audit may include requesting further information from those 
charged with governance in order to complete the audit evidence obtained. For example, the auditor 
may con firm that those charged with governance have the same understanding of the facts and 
circumstances relevant to specific transactions or events. 
A18 When SLAuS 701 applies, the communications with those charged with governance required by 
paragraph 16, as w ell as the communication about the significant risks identified by the auditor 

<!-- page 152 -->

152A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
required by paragraph 15, are particularly relevant to the auditor’s determination of matters that 
required significant auditor attention and which therefore may be key audit matters.11 
Significant Qualitative Aspects of Accounting Practices (Ref: Para. 16(a)) 
A19 Financial reporting frameworks ordinarily allow for the entity to make accounting estimates, and 
judgments about accounting policies and financial statement disclosures, for example, in relation to the 
use of key assumptions in the development of accounting estimates for which there is significant 
measurement uncertainty . In addition, law, regulation or financial reporting frameworks may require 
disclosure of a summary of  significant accounting policies or make reference to “critical accounting 
estimates” or “critical accounting policies and practices” to identify and provide additional information 
to users about the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments made by management in preparing 
the financial statements. 
A20 As a result, the auditor’s views on the subjective aspects of the financial statements may be particularly 
relevant to those charged with governance in discharging their responsibilities for oversight o f the 
financial reporting process. For example, in relation to the matters described in paragraph A19, those 
charged with governance may be interested in the auditor’s evaluation of the adequacy of disclosures of 
the estimation uncertainty relating to acco unting estimates that give rise to significant risks. Open and 
constructive communication about significant qualitative aspects of the entity ’s accounting practices 
also may include comment on the acceptability of significant accounting practices and the quality of the 
disclosures. Appendix 2 identifies matters that may be included in this communication. 
Significant Difficulties Encountered during the Audit (Ref: Para. 16(b)) 
A21 Significant difficulties encountered during the audit may include such matters as:  
 Significant delays by management, the unavailability of entity personnel, or an unwillingness by 
management to provide information necessary for the auditor to perform the auditor’s procedures.  
 An unreasonably brief time within which to complete the audit.  
 Extensive unexpected effort required to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.  
 The unavailability of expected information.  
 Restrictions imposed on the auditor by management.  
 Management’s unwillingness to make or extend its assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as 
a going concern when requested.  
In some circumstances, such difficulties may constitute a scope limitation that leads to a modification 
of the auditor’s opinion.12  
Significant Matters Discussed, or Subject to Correspondence with Management (Ref: Para. 16(c)(i)) 
A22 Significant matters discussed, or subject to correspondence with management may include such matters 
as: 
 Significant events or transactions that occurred during the year. 
                                                             
11  SLAuS 701, paragraphs 9–10 
12  SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report  

<!-- page 153 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    153A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 Business conditions affecting the entity, and business plans and strategies that may affect the risks 
of material misstatement.  
 Concerns about management’s consultations with other accountants on accounting or auditing 
matters.  
 Discussions or correspondence in connection with the initial or recurring appointment of the 
auditor regarding accounting practices, the application of auditing standards, or fees for audit or 
other services. 
 Significant matters on which there was disagreement with management, except for initial 
differences of opinion because of incomplete facts or preliminary information that are later 
resolved by the auditor obtaining additional relevant facts or information. 
Circumstances that Affect the Form and Content of the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para 16(d)) 
A23 SLAuS 210 requires the auditor to agree the terms of the audit engagement with management or those 
charged with governance, as appropriate.13 The agreed terms of the audit engagement are required to be 
recorded in an audit engagement letter or other suitable form of written  agreement and include, among 
other things, reference to the expected form and content of the auditor ’s report. 14 As explained in 
paragraph A9, if the terms of engagement are not agreed with those charged with governance, the 
auditor may provide those charg ed with governance with a copy of the engagement letter to 
communicate about matters relevant to the audit. The communication required by paragraph 16(d) is 
intended to inform those charged with governance about circumstances in which the auditor ’s report 
may differ from its expected form and content or may include additional information about the audit 
that was performed. 
A24 Circumstances in which the auditor is required or may otherwise consider it necessary to include 
additional information in the audit or’s report in accordance with the SLAuSs, and for which 
communication with those charged with governance is required, include when: 
 The auditor expects to modify the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705 
(Revised).15 
 A material uncer tainty related to going concern is reported in accordance with SLAuS 570 
(Revised).16 
 Key audit matters are communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701.17 
 The auditor considers it necessary to include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph or Other Matter 
paragraph in accordance with SLAuS 706 (Revised)18 or is required to do so by other SLAuSs. 
                                                             
13  SLAuS 210, paragraph 9 
14  SLAuS 210, paragraph 10 
15  SLAuS 705 (Revised), paragraph 30  
16  SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern, paragraph 25(d) 
17  SLAuS 701, paragraph 17 
18  SLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent  Auditor’s Report , 
paragraph 12 

<!-- page 154 -->

154A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 The auditor has concluded that there is an uncorrected material misstatement of the other 
information in accordance with SLAuS 720 (Revised)19 
In such circumstances, the auditor  may consider it useful to provide those charged with governance 
with a draft of the auditor’s report to facilitate a discussion of how such matters will be addressed in 
the auditor’s report. 
A25 In the rare circumstances that the auditor intends not to in clude the CA Sri Lanka membership number 
of the engagement partner in the auditor ’s report in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised), the auditor 
is required to discuss this intention with those charged with governance to inform the auditor ’s 
assessment of the likelihood and severity of a significant personal security threat.20 The auditor also may 
communicate with those charged with governance in circumstances when the auditor elects not to 
include the description of the auditor ’s responsibilities in the body of the auditor ’s report as permitted 
by SLAuS 700 (Revised).21 
Other Significant Matters Relevant to the Financial Reporting Process (Ref: Para. 16(e)) 
A26 SLAuS 30022 notes that, as a result of unexpected events, changes in conditions, or the audit evidence  
obtained from the results of audit procedures, the auditor may need to modify the overall audit strategy 
and audit plan and thereby the resulting planned nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures, 
based on the revised consideration of assessed  risks. The auditor may communicate with those charged 
with governance about such matters, for example, as an update to initial discussions about the planned 
scope and timing of the audit.  
A27 Other significant matters arising during the audit that are di rectly relevant to those charged with 
governance in overseeing the financial reporting process may include such matters as material 
misstatements of the other information that have been corrected. 
A28 To the extent not already addressed by the requirements in paragraphs 16(a)–(d) and related application 
material, the auditor may consider communicating about other matters discussed with, or considered by , 
the engagement quality control reviewer, if one has been appointed, in accordance with SLAuS 220.23 
Auditor Independence (Ref: Para. 17) 
A29 The auditor is required to comply with relevant ethical requirements, including those pertaining to 
independence, relating to financial statement audit engagements.24 
A30 The relationships and other matters, and safeguards to be communicated, vary with the circumstances of 
the engagement, but generally address:  
(a) Threats to independence, which may be categorized as: self-interest threats, self-review threats, 
advocacy threats, familiarity threats, and intimidation threats; and 
                                                             
19  SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsiblities Relating to Other Information , paragraph 18(a) 
20  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraphs 46 and A63  
21  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 41  
22  SLAuS 300, Planning an Audit of Financial Statements, paragraph A15 
23  See paragraphs 19–22 and A23–A33 of SLAuS 220, Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements . 
24  SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Audi ting 
Standards, paragraph 14 

<!-- page 155 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    155A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(b) Safeguards created by the profession, legislation or regulation, safeguards within the entity, and 
safeguards within the firm’s own systems and procedures.  
A31 Relevant ethical requirements or law or regulation may also specify particular communications to those 
charged with governance in circumstances where breaches of independence requirements have been 
identified. For example, the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code) requires 
the auditor to communicate with those charged w ith governance in writing about any breach and the 
action the firm has taken or proposes to take.25 
A32 The communication requirements relating to auditor independence that apply in the case of listed 
entities may also be appropriate in the case of some oth er entities, including those that may be of 
significant public interest, for example, because they have a large number and wide range of 
stakeholders and considering the nature and size of the business. Examples of such entities may include 
financial institutions (such as banks, insurance companies, and pension funds), and other entities such as 
charities. On the other hand, there may be situations where communications regarding independence 
may not be relevant, for example, where all of those charged with governance have been informed of 
relevant facts through their management activities. This is particularly likely where the entity is owner -
managed, and the auditor ’s firm and network firms have little involvement with the entity beyond a 
financial statement audit. 
 
Supplementary Matters (Ref: Para. 3) 
A33 The oversight of management by those charged with governance includes ensuring that the entity 
designs, implements and maintains appropriate internal control with regard to reliability of financial 
reporting, effectiveness and efficiency of operations and compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations.  
A34 The auditor may become aware of supplementary matters that do not necessarily relate to the oversight 
of the financial reporting process but which are,  nevertheless, likely to be significant to the 
responsibilities of those charged with governance in overseeing the strategic direction of the entity or 
the entity’s obligations related to accountability . Such matters may include, for example, significant 
issues regarding governance structures or processes, and significant decisions or actions by senior 
management that lack appropriate authorization.  
A35 In determining whether to communicate supplementary matters with those charged with governance, the 
auditor may discuss matters of this kind of which the auditor has become aware with the appropriate 
level of management, unless it is inappropriate to do so in the circumstances.  
A36 If a supplementary matter is communicated, it may be appropriate for the auditor to make those charged 
with governance aware that: 
(a) Identification and communication of such matters is incidental to the purpose of the audit, which 
is to form an opinion on the financial statements; 
                                                             
25  See Section 290.39–49 of the CA Sri Lanka Code, which addresses breaches of independence.  

<!-- page 156 -->

156A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(b) No procedures were carried out with respect to the matter other than any that were necessary to 
form an opinion on the financial statements; and 
(c) No procedures were carried out to determine whether other such matters exist. 
The Communication Process  
Establishing the Communication Process (Ref: Para. 18) 
A37 Clear communication of the auditor’s responsibilities, the planned scope and timing of the audit, and the 
expected general content of communications helps establish the basis for effective two -way 
communication. 
A38 Matters that may also contribute to effective two-way communication include discussion of: 
 The purpose of communications. When the purpose is clear, the auditor and those charged with 
governance are better placed to have a mutual understanding of relevant issues and the expected 
actions arising from the communication process. 
 The form in which communications will be made. 
 The person(s) in the engagement team and among those charged with governance who will 
communicate regarding particular matters. 
 The auditor’s expectation that communication wil l be two -way, and that those charged with 
governance will communicate with the auditor matters they consider relevant to the audit, for 
example, strategic decisions that may significantly affect the nature, timing and extent of audit 
procedures, the suspicion or the detection of fraud, and concerns with the integrity or competence 
of senior management. 
 The process for taking action and reporting back on matters communicated by the auditor. 
 The process for taking action and reporting back on matters communic ated by those charged with 
governance. 
A39 The communication process will vary with the circumstances, including the size and governance 
structure of the entity , how those charged with governance operate, and the auditor ’s view of the 
significance of matte rs to be communicated. Difficulty in establishing effective two -way 
communication may indicate that the communication between the auditor and those charged with 
governance is not adequate for the purpose of the audit (see paragraph A52).  
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities 
A40 In the case of audits of smaller entities, the auditor may communicate in a less structured manner with 
those charged with governance than in the case of listed or larger entities. 
Communication with Management  
A41 Many matters may be discussed with management in the ordinary course of an audit, including matters 
required by this SLAuS to be communicated with those charged with governance. Such discussions 
recognize management ’s executive responsibility for the conduct of the  entity’s operations and, in 
particular, management’s responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements. 

<!-- page 157 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    157A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
A42 Before communicating matters with those charged with governance, the auditor may discuss them with 
management, unless that is inappropriate. For example, it may not be appropriate to discuss questions of 
management’s competence or integrity with management. In addition to recognizing management ’s 
executive responsibility , these initial discussions may clarify facts and issues, and give management an 
opportunity to provide further information and explanations. Similarly , when the entity has an internal 
audit function, the auditor may discuss matters with the internal auditor before communicating with 
those charged with governance.  
Communication with Third Parties  
A43 Those charged with governance may be required by law or regulation, or may wish, to provide third 
parties, for example, bankers or certain regulatory authorities, with copies of a written communication 
from the auditor. In so me cases, disclosure to third parties may be illegal or otherwise inappropriate. 
When a written communication prepared for those charged with governance is provided to third parties, 
it may be important in the circumstances that the third parties be inform ed that the communication was 
not prepared with them in mind, for example, by stating in written communications with those charged 
with governance: 
(a) That the communication has been prepared for the sole use of those charged with governance and, 
where applicable, the group management and the group auditor, and should not be relied upon by 
third parties; 
(b) That no responsibility is assumed by the auditor to third parties; and  
(c) Any restrictions on disclosure or distribution to third parties.  
A44 In some jurisdictions the auditor may be required by law or regulation to, for example:  
 Notify a regulatory or enforcement body of certain matters communicated with those charged with 
governance. For example, in some countries the auditor has a duty to report misstatemen ts to 
authorities where management and those charged with governance fail to take corrective action; 
 Submit copies of certain reports prepared for those charged with governance to relevant regulatory 
or funding bodies, or other bodies such as a central aut hority in the case of some public sector 
entities; or  
 Make reports prepared for those charged with governance publicly available.  
A45 Unless required by law or regulation to provide a third party with a copy of the auditor ’s written 
communications with those charged with governance, the auditor may need the prior consent of those 
charged with governance before doing so.  
Forms of Communication (Ref: Para. 19) 
A46 Effective communication may involve structured presentations and written reports as well as l ess 
structured communications, including discussions. The auditor may communicate matters other than 
those identified in paragraphs 19–20 either orally or in writing. Written communications may include an 
engagement letter that is provided to those charged with governance. 

<!-- page 158 -->

158A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
A47 In addition to the significance of a particular matter, the form of communication (e.g., whether to 
communicate orally or in writing, the extent of detail or summarization in the communication, and 
whether to communicate in a structured or unstructured manner) may be affected by such factors as: 
 Whether a discussion of the matter will be included in the auditor’s report. For example, when key 
audit matters are communicated in the auditor’s report, the auditor may consider it necessary to 
communicate in writing about the matters determined to be key audit matters.   
 Whether the matter has been satisfactorily resolved. 
 Whether management has previously communicated the matter. 
 The size, operating structure, control environment, and legal structure of the entity. 
 In the case of an audit of special purpose financial statements, whether the auditor also audits the 
entity’s general purpose financial statements.  
 Legal requirements. In some jurisdictions, a written communication with those char ged with 
governance is required in a prescribed form by local law. 
 The expectations of those charged with governance, including arrangements made for periodic 
meetings or communications with the auditor. 
 The amount of ongoing contact and dialogue the auditor has with those charged with governance. 
 Whether there have been significant changes in the membership of a governing body. 
A48 When a significant matter is discussed with an individual member of those charged with governance, for 
example, the chair of an audit committee, it may be appropriate for the auditor to summarize the matter 
in later communications so that all of those charged with governance have full and balanced 
information.  
Timing of Communications (Ref: Para. 21) 
A49 Timely communication throughout the audit contributes to the achievement of robust two-way dialogue 
between those charged with governance and the auditor. However, the appropriate timing for 
communications will vary with the circumstances of the engagement. Relevant circumstances  include 
the significance and nature of the matter, and the action expected to be taken by those charged with 
governance. For example:  
 Communications regarding planning matters may often be made early in the audit engagement 
and, for an initial engagement, may be made as part of agreeing the terms of the engagement.  
 It may be appropriate to communicate a significant difficulty encountered during the audit as soon 
as practicable if those charged with governance are able to assist the auditor to overcome th e 
difficulty, or if it is likely to lead to a modified opinion. Similarly, the auditor may communicate 
orally to those charged with governance as soon as practicable significant deficiencies in internal 
control that the auditor has identified, prior to com municating these in writing as required by 
SLAuS 265.26 
 When SLAuS 701 applies, the auditor may communicate preliminary views about key audit 
matters when discussing the planned scope and timing of the audit (see paragraph A13), and the 
auditor also may hav e more frequent communications to further discuss such matters when 
communicating about significant audit findings.    
                                                             
26  SLAuS 265, paragraphs 9 and A14  

<!-- page 159 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    159A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 Communications regarding independence may be appropriate whenever significant judgments are 
made about threats to independence and relate d safeguards, for example, when accepting an 
engagement to provide non-audit services, and at a concluding discussion.  
 Communications regarding findings from the audit, including the auditor’s views about the 
qualitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices, may also be made as part of the concluding 
discussion. 
Adequacy of the Communication Process (Ref: Para. 22) 
A50 Other factors that may be relevant to the timing of communications include:  
 The size, operating structure, control environment, and legal structure of the entity being audited. 
 Any legal obligation to communicate certain matters within a specified timeframe.  
 The expectations of those charged with governance, including arrangements made for periodic 
meetings or communications with the auditor. 
 The time at which the auditor identifies certain matters, for example, the auditor may not identify 
a particular matter (e.g., noncompliance with a law) in time for preventive action to be taken, but 
communication of the matter may enable remedial action to be taken.  
A51 The auditor need not design specific procedures to support the evaluation of the two -way 
communication between the auditor and those charged with governance; rather, that evaluation may be 
based on observations resulting from audit procedures performed for other purposes. Such observations 
may include: 
 The appropriateness and timeliness of actions taken by those charged with governance in response 
to matters raised by the auditor. Where significant matters raised in previous comm unications 
have not been dealt with effectively, it may be appropriate for the auditor to inquire as to why 
appropriate action has not been taken, and to consider raising the point again. This avoids the risk 
of giving an impression that the auditor is sat isfied that the matter has been adequately addressed 
or is no longer significant. 
 The apparent openness of those charged with governance in their communications with the 
auditor. 
 The willingness and capacity of those charged with governance to meet with th e auditor without 
management present. 
 The apparent ability of those charged with governance to fully comprehend matters raised by the 
auditor, for example, the extent to which those charged with governance probe issues, and 
question recommendations made to them. 
 Difficulty in establishing with those charged with governance a mutual understanding of the form, 
timing and expected general content of communications. 
 Where all or some of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity, their 
apparent awareness of how matters discussed with the auditor affect their broader governance 
responsibilities, as well as their management responsibilities. 
 Whether the two -way communication between the auditor and those charged with governance 
meets applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 

<!-- page 160 -->

160A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
A52 As noted in paragraph 4, effective two -way communication assists both the auditor and those charged 
with governance. Further, SLAuS 315 (Revised) identifies participation by those charged with 
governance, including their interaction with internal audit, if any , and external auditors, as an element of 
the entity’s control environment.27 Inadequate two-way communication may indicate an unsatisfactory 
control environment and influence the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement. There 
is also a risk that the auditor may not have obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to form an 
opinion on the financial statements.  
A53 If the two-way communication between the auditor and those charged with gov ernance is not adequate 
and the situation cannot be resolved, the auditor may take such actions as: 
 Modifying the auditor’s opinion on the basis of a scope limitation. 
 Obtaining legal advice about the consequences of different courses of action. 
 Communicating with third parties (e.g., a regulator), or a higher authority in the governance 
structure that is outside the entity, such as the owners of a business (e.g., shareholders in a general 
meeting), or the responsible government minister or parliament in the public sector. 
 Withdrawing from the engagement, where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or 
regulation.  
Documentation (Ref: Para. 23) 
A54 Documentation of oral communication may include a copy of minutes prepared by the entity retained 
as part of the audit documentation where those minutes are an appropriate record of the 
communication. 
 
                                                             
27  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph A78  

<!-- page 161 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    161A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Appendix 1 
(Ref:Para 3) 
 
 
Specific Requirements in SLSQC 1 and Other SLAuSs that Refer to Communications with Those 
Charged With Governance 
This appendix identifies paragraphs in SLSQC 1 1 and other SLAuSs that require communication of specific 
matters with those charged with governance. The list is not a substitute for considering the requirements 
and related application and other explanatory material in SLAuSs 
 
 SLSQC 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and 
Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements – paragraph 30(a)  
 SLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statem ents – 
paragraphs 21, 38(c)(i) and 40-42 
 SLAuS 250, Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements  – paragraphs 
14, 19 and 22–24 
 SLAuS 265, Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and 
Management – paragraph 9 
 SLAuS 450, Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit – paragraphs 12-13  
 SLAuS 505, External Confirmations – paragraph 9 
 SLAuS 510, Initial Audit Engagements―Opening Balances – paragraph 7 
 SLAuS 550, Related Parties – paragraph 27  
 SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events – paragraphs 7(b)-(c), 10(a), 13(b), 14(a) and 17  
 SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern – paragraph 25 
 SLAuS 600, Special Considerations―Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of 
Component Auditors) – paragraph 49 
 SLAuS 610 (Revised), Using the Work of Internal Auditors – paragraph 18; SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013), 
Using the Work of Internal Auditors – paragraphs 20 and 31  
 SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements – paragraph 46 
 SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report – paragraph 17 
 SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report  – paragraphs 
12, 14, 23 and 30 
 SLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report – paragraph 12
                                                             
1  SLSQC 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and  Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related 
Services Engagements 

<!-- page 162 -->

162A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 SLAuS 710, Comparative Information—Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements 
– paragraph 18 
 SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information – paragraph 17―19 
 

<!-- page 163 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    163A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Appendix 2 
(Ref:Para. 16(a),A19-A20) 
 
Qualitative Aspects of Accounting Practices 
 
The communication required by paragraph 16(a), and discussed in paragraphs A19 –A20, may include such 
matters as: 
 
Accounting Policies 
 The appropriateness of the accounting policies to the particular circumstances of the entity, having regard 
to the need to balance the cost of providing information with the likely benefit to users of the entity’s 
financial statements. Where acceptable alternative accounti ng policies exist, the communication may 
include identification of the financial statement items that are affected by the choice of significant 
accounting policies as well as information on accounting policies used by similar entities. 
 The initial selection of, and changes in, significant accounting policies, including the application of new 
accounting pronouncements. The communication may include: the effect of the timing and method of 
adoption of a change in accounting policy on the current and future earnings of the entity; and the timing 
of a change in accounting policies in relation to expected new accounting pronouncements. 
 The effect of significant accounting policies in controversial or emerging areas (or those unique to an 
industry, particularly when there is a lack of authoritative guidance or consensus). 
 
The effect of the timing of transactions in relation to the period in which they are recorded. 
Accounting Estimates 
 For items for which estimates are significant, issues discussed in SLAuS 540,1 including, for example: 
○ How management identifies those transactions, events and conditions that may give rise to the need 
for accounting estimates to be recognized or disclosed in the financial statements. 
○ Changes in circumstances that may give rise to new, or the need to revise existing, accounting 
estimates. 
○ Whether management’s decision to recognize, or to not recognize, the accounting estimates in the 
financial statements is in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. 
○ Whether there has been or ought to have been a change from the prior period in the methods for 
making the accounting estimates and, if so, why, as well as the outcome of accounting estimates in 
prior periods. 
○ Management’s process for making accounting estimates (e.g., when management has used a model), 
including whether the selected measurement basis for the accounting estimate is in accordance with 
the applicable financial reporting framework.  
○ Whether the significant assumptions used by management in developing the accounting estimate are 
reasonable. 
                                                             
1  SLAuS 540, Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures  

<!-- page 164 -->

164A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
○ Where relevant to the reasonableness of the significant assumptions used by management or the 
appropriate application of the applicable financial reporting framework, management’s intent to 
carry out specific courses of action and its ability to do so. 
○ Risks of material misstatement. 
○ Indicators of possible management bias. 
○ How management has considered alternative assumptions or outcomes and why it has rejected them, 
or how management has otherwise addressed estimation uncer tainty in making the accounting 
estimate. 
○ The adequacy of disclosure of estimation uncertainty in the financial statements 
 
Financial Statement Disclosures 
 The issues involved, and related judgments made, in formulating particularly sensitive financial 
statement disclosures (e.g., disclosures related to revenue recognition, remuneration, going concern, 
subsequent events, and contingency issues).  
 The overall neutrality, consistency and clarity of the disclosures in the financial statements. 
 
Related Matters  
 The potential effect on the financial statements of significant risks, exposures and uncertainties, such as 
pending litigation, that are disclosed in the financial statements. 
 The extent to which the financial statements are affected by significant transactions that are outside the 
normal course of business for the entity, or that otherwise appear to be unusual. This communication may 
highlight: 
 
○ The non-recurring amounts recognized during the period. 
○ The extent to which such transactions are separately disclosed in the financial statements. 
○ Whether such transactions appear to have been designed to achieve a particular accounting or tax 
treatment, or a particular legal or regulatory objective. 
○ Whether the form of such transactions appears overly complex or  where extensive advice regarding 
the structuring of the transaction has been taken. 
○ Where management is placing more emphasis on the need for a particular accounting treatment than 
on the underlying economics of the transaction. 
 The factors affecting asse t and liability carrying values, including the entity’s bases for determining 
useful lives assigned to tangible and intangible assets. The communication may explain how factors 
affecting carrying values were selected and how alternative selections would ha ve affected the financial 
statements. 
The selective correction of misstatements, for example, correcting misstatements with the effect of increasing 
reported earnings, but not those that have the effect of decreasing reported earnings. 
 
 
 

<!-- page 165 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    165A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 570 (REVISED) 
 
GOING CONCERN 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending  
on or after 31 March 2018) 
CONTENTS 
 
Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS  …………………………………………………………..………….  1 
Going Concern Basis of Accounting  ……………………………………………………..  2 
Responsibility for Assessment of the Entity’s Ability to Continue as a . 
Going Concern  ………………………………………………………………….…………  37 
Effective Date …………………………………………………………………..………….   8 
Objectives………………………………………………………………………………….    9 
Requirements 
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities  ……………………………….……..  1011 
Evaluating Management’s Assessment ……………….…………………………..………..  1214 
Period beyond Management’s Assessment ……………………………………..…………….  15 
Additional Audit Procedures When Events or Conditions Are Identified ……….…………  16 
Auditor Conclusions ……………………………………………………….……………….  1720 
Implications for the Auditor’s Report …………………………………………………….  2124 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance……………………….……..…….   25 
Significant Delay in the Approval of Financial Statements ……………………………..…   26 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Scope of this SLAuS………………………………………………………..……………….  A1 
Going Concern Basis of Accounting ………………………………………..………………  A2 
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ……………………………….…..…..  A3A7 
Evaluating Management’s Assessment ………………………………………….……..…..  A8A13 
Period beyond Management’s Assessment …………………………………………………  A14A15 
Additional Audit Procedures When Events or Conditions Are Identified  …………………  A16A20 
Auditor Conclusions …………………………………………………….………………….       A21A25 
Implications for the Auditor’s Report ……………………………………….……………..       A26A35 
Appendix: Illustrations of Auditor’s Reports Relating to Going Concern 

<!-- page 166 -->

166A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
 
1. This Sri Lanka Audi ting Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities in the audit of 
financial statements relating to going concern and the implications for the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. 
A1) 
Going Concern Basis of Accounting 
 
2. Under the going concern basis of accounting, the financial statements are prepared on the assumption 
that the entity is a going concern and will continue its operations for the foreseeable future. General 
purpose financial statements are prepared using the going concern basis of account ing, unless 
management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but 
to do so. Special purpose financial statements may or may not be prepared in accordance with a financial 
reporting framework for which the going concern basis of accounting is relevant (e.g., the going concern 
basis of accounting is not relevant for some financial statements prepared on a tax basis in particular 
jurisdictions). When the use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate, assets and liabilities 
are recorded on the basis that the entity will be able to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the 
normal course of business. (Ref: Para. A2) 
Responsibility for Assessment of the Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern 
 
3. Some financial reporting frameworks contain an explicit requirement for management to make a specific 
assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, and standards regarding matters to be 
considered and disclosures to  be made in connection with going concern. For example, Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standard (LKAS) 1 requires management to make an assessment of an entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.1 The detailed requirements regarding management’s responsibility to assess 
the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and related financial statement disclosures may also be 
set out in law or regulation. 
 
4. In other financial reporting frameworks, there may be no explicit requirement for management to make a 
specific assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. Nevertheless, where the going 
concern basis of accounting is a fundamental principle in the preparation of financial statements as 
discussed in paragraph 2, the preparation of the financial statements requires management to assess the 
entity’s ability to continue as a going concern even if the financial reporting framework does not include 
an explicit requirement to do so. 
 
5. Management’s assessment of the entity ’s ability to continue as a going concern involves making a 
judgment, at a particular point in time, about inherently uncertain future outcomes of events or 
conditions. The following factors are relevant to that judgment: 
 The degree of uncertainty associated with the outcome of an event or condition increases 
significantly the further into the future an event or condition or the outcome occurs. For that reason, 
                                                             
1  LKAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements , paragraphs 25–26 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 570 (Revised), Going Concern, should be read in conjunction with 
SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance 
with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 

<!-- page 167 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    167A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
most financial reporting frameworks that require an explicit management asses sment specify the 
period for which management is required to take into account all available information. 
 The size and complexity of the entity, the nature and condition of its business and the degree to 
which it is affected by external factors affect the judgment regarding the outcome of events or 
conditions. 
 Any judgment about the future is based on information available at the time at which the judgment is 
made. Subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were 
reasonable at the time they were made. 
 
Responsibilities of the Auditor 
6 The auditor’s responsibilities are to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding, and conclude 
on, the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accoun ting in the preparation 
of the financial statements, and to conclude, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists about the entity ’s ability to continue as a going concern. These responsibilities exist 
even if the financial reporting framework used in the preparation of the financial statements does not 
include an explicit requirement for management to make a specific assessment of the entity ’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. 
7 However, as described in SLAuS 200,2 the potential effects of inherent limitations on the auditor’s ability 
to detect material misstatements are greater for future events or conditions that may cause an entity to 
cease to continue as a going concern. The auditor cannot predict such future events  or conditions. 
Accordingly , the absence of any reference to a material uncertainty about the entity’s ability to continue 
as a going concern in an auditor ’s report cannot be viewed as a guarantee as to the entity ’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. 
 
Effective Date 
8 This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after 31 March 2018. 
 
Objectives 
9. The objectives of the auditor are: 
(a) To obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding, and conclude on, the appropriateness of 
management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial 
statements;  
(b) To conclude, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to 
events or conditions that  may cast significant doubt on the entity ’s ability to continue as a going 
concern; and  
To report in accordance with this SLAuS. 
 
 
 
 
                                                             
2 SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards, paragraphs A53–A54 

<!-- page 168 -->

168A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Requirements 
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities   
10 When performing risk assessment procedures  as required by SLAuS 315  (Revised),3 the auditor shall  
consider whether events or conditions  exist that may cast significant doubt on the entity ’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. In so doing, the auditor shall determine whether management has already 
performed a preliminary assessment of the entity ’s ability to continue as a going concern, and : (Ref: 
Para. A3–A6) 
(a) If such an assessment has been performed, the auditor shall discuss the assessment with 
management and determine whether management has identified ev ents or conditions that, 
individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going 
concern and, if so, management’s plans to address them; or 
(b) If such an assessment has not yet been performed, the auditor shall discuss with management the 
basis for the intended use of the going concern basis of accounting, and inquire of management 
whether events or conditions exist that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on 
the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern.  
 
11 The auditor shall remain alert throughout the audit for audit evidence of events or conditions that may 
cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. (Ref: Para. A7) 
 
Evaluating Management’s Assessment  
 
12 The auditor shall evaluate management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
(Ref: Para. A8–A10, A12–A13) 
 
13 In evaluating management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, the auditor 
shall cover the same period as that used by management to make its assessment as required by the 
applicable financial reporting framework, or by law or regulation if it specifies a longer period. If 
management’s assessment of the entity ’s ability to contin ue as a going concern covers less than twelve 
months from the date of the financial statements as defined in SLAuS 560, 4 the auditor shall request 
management to extend its assessment period to at least twelve months from that date.  (Ref: Para. A11–
A13)  
 
14 In evaluating management ’s assessment, the auditor shall consider whether management ’s assessment 
includes all relevant information of which the auditor is aware as a result of the audit. 
 
Period beyond Management’s Assessment  
15. The auditor shall inquire of management as to its knowledge of events or conditions beyond the period of 
management’s assessment that may cast significant doubt on the entity ’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. (Ref: Para. A14–A15) 
Additional Audit Procedures When Events or Conditions Are Identified  
16. If events or conditions have been identified that may cast significant doubt on the entity ’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, the auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to determine 
                                                             
3  SLAuS 315 (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through  Understanding the Entity and Its 
Environment, paragraph 5 
4 SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events , paragraph 5(a) 

<!-- page 169 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    169A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
whether or not a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern (hereinafter referred to as “material uncertainty”) 
through performing additional audit procedures, inclu ding consideration of mitigating factors. These 
procedures shall include: (Ref: Para. A16) 
(a) Where management has not yet performed an assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, requesting management to make its assessment.  
(b) Evaluating management’s plans for future actions in relation to its going concern assessment, 
whether the outcome of these plans is likely to improve the situation and whether management’s 
plans are feasible in the circumstances. (Ref: Para. A17) 
 
(c) Where the entity has prepared a cash flow forecast, and analysis of the forecast is a significant 
factor in considering the future outcome of events or conditions in the evaluation of management’s 
plans for future actions: (Ref: Para. A18–A19) 
(i) Evaluating the reliability of the underlying data generated to prepare the forecast; and 
(ii) Determining whether there is adequate support for the assumptions underlying the forecast. 
(d) Considering whether any additional facts or information have become available since the date on 
which management made its assessment. 
(e) Requesting written representations from management and, where appropriate, those charged with 
governance, regarding their plans for future actions and the feasibility of these plans.  (Ref: Para. 
A20) 
Auditor Conclusions  
17 The auditor shall evaluate whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained regarding, and 
shall conclude on, the appropriateness of management ’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in 
the preparation of the financial statements. 
18 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor shall conclude whether, in the auditor ’s judgment, a 
material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that, individually or collectively , may cast 
significant doubt on the entity ’s ability to conti nue as a going concern.  A material uncertainty exists 
when the magnitude of its potential impact and likelihood of occurrence is such that, in the auditor ’s 
judgment, appropriate disclosure of the nature and implications of the uncertainty is necessary for : (Ref: 
Para. A21A22) 
(a) In the case of a fair presentation financial reporting framework, the fair presentation of the 
financial statements, or  
(b) In the case of a compliance framework, the financial statements not to be misleading. 
 
Adequacy of Disclosures When Events or Conditions Have Been Identified and a Material Uncertainty Exists 
19. If the auditor concludes that management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate in 
the circumstances but a material uncertainty exists, the a uditor shall determine whether the financial 
statements: (Ref: Para. A22‒A23)  
(a) Adequately disclose the principal events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and management’s plans to deal with these events or 
conditions; and 

<!-- page 170 -->

170A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(b) Disclose clearly that there is a material uncertainty related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore, that it may 
be unable to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business.  
 
Adequacy of Disclosures When Events or Conditions Have Been Identified but No Material Uncertainty  
Exists 
20. If events or conditions have been identified that may cast significant  doubt on the entity ’s ability to 
continue as a going concern but, based on the audit evidence obtained the auditor concludes that no 
material uncertainty exists, the auditor shall evaluate whether, in view of the requirements of the 
applicable financial r eporting framework, the financial statements provide adequate disclosures about 
these events or conditions. (Ref: Para. A24–A25) 
 
Implications for the Auditor’s Report 
Use of Going Concern Basis of Accounting Is Inappropriate 
21. If the financial statement s have been prepared using the going concern basis of accounting but, in the 
auditor’s judgment, management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
financial statements is inappropriate, the auditor shall express an adverse opinion. (Ref: Para. A26–A27) 
Use of Going Concern Basis of Accounting Is Appropriate but a Material Uncertainty Exists 
Adequate Disclosure of a Material Uncertainty Is Made in the Financial Statements 
22. If adequate disclosure about the material uncertainty is made in the financial statements, the auditor shall 
express an unmodified opinion and the auditor’s report shall include a separate section under the heading 
“Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern” to: (Ref: Para. A28–A31, A34) 
(a) Draw attention to the note in the financial statements that discloses the matters set out in paragraph 
19; and 
(b) State that these events or conditions indicate that a material uncertainty exists that may cast 
significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and that the auditor’s opinion 
is not modified in respect of the matter.  
 
Adequate Disclosure of a Material Uncertainty Is Not Made in the Financial Statements 
23 If adequate disclosure about the material uncertainty is not made in the financi al statements, the auditor 
shall: (Ref: Para. A32–A34) 
(a) Express a qualified opinion or adverse opinion, as appropriate, in accordance with SLAuS 705 
(Revised)5; and 
(b) In the Basis for Qualified (Adverse) Opinion section of the auditor’s report, state that a material 
uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going 
concern and that the financial statements do not adequately disclose this matter.  
Management Unwilling to Make or Extend Its Assessment 
24 If management is unwilling to make or extend its assessment when requested to do so by the auditor, the 
auditor shall consider the implications for the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A35) 
                                                             
5  SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report  

<!-- page 171 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    171A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance 
25 Unless all those ch arged with governance are involved in managing the entity , 6 the auditor shall 
communicate with those charged with governance events or conditions identified that may cast 
significant doubt on the entity ’s ability to continue as a going concern. Such commun ication with those 
charged with governance shall include the following: 
(a) Whether the events or conditions constitute a material uncertainty; 
(b) Whether management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate in the 
preparation of the financial statements;  
(c) The adequacy of related disclosures in the financial statements; and 
(d) Where applicable, the implications for the auditor’s report. 
Significant Delay in the Approval of Financial Statements 
26 If there is significant delay in the approval of th e financial statements by management or those charged 
with governance after the date of the financial statements, the auditor shall inquire as to the reasons for 
the delay . If the auditor believes that the delay could be related to events or conditions rel ating to the 
going concern assessment, the auditor shall perform those additional audit procedures necessary , as 
described in paragraph 16, as well as consider the effect on the auditor ’s conclusion regarding the 
existence of a material uncertainty , as described in paragraph 18. 
*** 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Scope of this SLAuS (Ref: Para 1) 
A1. SLAuS 701 7 deals with the auditor ’s responsibility to communicate key audit matters in the auditor ’s 
report. That SLAuS acknowledges that, when SLAuS 701 applies, matters relating to going concern may be 
determined to be key audit matters, and explains that a material uncertainty related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern is, by its nature, a key 
audit matter.8 
Going Concern Basis of Accounting (Ref: Para. 2) 
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities  
A2. Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting is also relevant to public sector entities. For 
example, Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standard (SLPSAS) 1 addresses the issue of the ability of 
public sector entities to continue as going concerns.9 Going concern risks may arise, but are not limited to, 
situations where public sector entities operate on a for -profit basis, where government support may be 
reduced or withdrawn, or in the case of privatization. Events or conditions that may cast significant doubt 
                                                             
6  SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with  Governance, paragraph 13 
7  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report  
8  See paragraphs 15 and A41 of SLAuS 701. 
9  SLPSAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, paragraphs 38–41 

<!-- page 172 -->

172A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
on an entity’s ability to continue as a going concern in the public sector may include situations where the 
public sector entity lacks funding for its continued existence or when policy decisions are made that affect 
the services provided by the public sector entity . 
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities 
Events or Conditions That May Cast Significant Doubt on the Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going 
Concern (Ref: Para. 10) 
A3. The following are examples of events or conditions that, individually or collectively , may cast significant 
doubt on the entity ’s ability to continue as a going concern. This listing is not all -inclusive nor does the 
existence of one or more of the items always signify that a material uncertainty exists. 
Financial 
 Net liability or net current liability position. 
 Fixed-term borrowings approaching maturity without realistic prospects of renewal or repayment; or 
excessive reliance on short-term borrowings to finance long-term assets. 
 Indications of withdrawal of financial support by creditors. 
 Negative operating cash flows indicated by historical or prospective financial statements. 
 Adverse key financial ratios. 
 Substantial operating losses or significant deterioration in the value of assets used to generate cash 
flows. 
 Arrears or discontinuance of dividends. 
 Inability to pay creditors on due dates. 
 Inability to comply with the terms of loan agreements. 
 Change from credit to cash-on-delivery transactions with suppliers. 
 Inability to obtain financing for essential new product development or other essential investments. 
Operating 
 Management intentions to liquidate the entity or to cease operations. 
 Loss of key management without replacement. 
 Loss of a major market, key customer(s), franchise, license, or principal supplier(s). 
 Labor difficulties.  
 Shortages of important supplies. 
 Emergence of a highly successful competitor. 
Other  
 Non-compliance with capital or other statutory or regulatory requirements, such as solvency or 
liquidity requirements for financial institutions. 
 Pending legal or regulatory proceedings against the entity that may, if successful, result in claims that 
the entity is unlikely to be able to satisfy. 
 Changes in law or regulation or government policy expected to adversely affect the entity. 

<!-- page 173 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    173A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 Uninsured or underinsured catastrophes when they occur. 
The significance of such events or conditions often can be mitigated by other factors. For example, the effect 
of an entity being unable to make its normal debt repayments may be counter -balanced by management’s 
plans to maintain adequate cash flows by alternative means, such as by disposing of assets, rescheduling loan 
repayments, or obtaining additional capital. Similarly, the loss of a principal supplier may be mitigated by the 
availability of a suitable alternative source of supply. 
A4. The risk assessment procedures required by paragraph 0 help the auditor to determine whether 
management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting is likely to be an important issue and its impact 
on planning t he audit. These procedures also allow for more timely discussions with management, 
including a discussion of management’s plans and resolution of any identified going concern issues. 
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities (Ref: Para. 10) 
A5. The size of an entity may affect its ability to withstand adverse conditions. Small entities may be able to 
respond quickly to exploit opportunities, but may lack reserves to sustain operations. 
A6. Conditions of particular relevance to small entities include the risk that banks and other lenders may cease 
to support the entity , as well as the possible loss of a principal supplier, major customer, key employee, or 
the right to operate under a license, franchise or other legal agreement.  
Remaining Alert throughout the Audit for Audit Evidence about Events or Conditions (Ref: Para. 11) 
A7. SLAuS 315 (Revised) requires the auditor to revise the auditor ’s risk assessment and modify the further 
planned audit procedures accordingly when ad ditional audit evidence is obtained during the course of the 
audit that affects the auditor ’s assessment of risk.10 If events or conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern are identified after the audit or’s risk assessments are 
made, in addition to performing the procedures in paragraph 16, the auditor ’s assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement may need to be revised. The existence of such events or conditions may also affect 
the nature, timing a nd extent of the auditor ’s further procedures in response to the assessed risks. SLAuS 
33011 establishes requirements and provides guidance on this issue. 
Evaluating Management’s Assessment  
Management’s Assessment and Supporting Analysis and the Auditor’s Evaluation (Ref: Para. 12) 
A8. Management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern is a key part of the auditor’s 
consideration of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting. 
A9. It is not the auditor ’s responsibility to rectify the lack of analysis by management. In some circumstances, 
however, the lack of detailed analysis by management to support its assessment may not prevent the auditor 
from concluding whether management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting i s appropriate in the 
circumstances. For example, when there is a history of profitable operations and a ready access to financial 
resources, management may make its assessment without detailed analysis. In this case, the auditor ’s 
evaluation of the appropr iateness of management’s assessment may be made without performing detailed 
evaluation procedures if the auditor’s other audit procedures are sufficient to enable the auditor to conclude 
                                                             
10  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 31 
11 SLAuS 330, The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks 

<!-- page 174 -->

174A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
whether management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial 
statements is appropriate in the circumstances. 
A10. In other circumstances, evaluating management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, as required by paragraph 0, may include an evaluation of the process management followed to 
make its assessment, the assumptions on which the assessment is based and management’s plans for future 
action and whether management’s plans are feasible in the circumstances. 
The Period of Management’s Assessment (Ref: Para. 13) 
A11. Most financial reporting frameworks requiring an explicit management assessment specify the period for 
which management is required to take into account all available information.12 
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities (Ref: Para. 12–13) 
A12. In many cases, the management of smaller entities may not have prepared a detailed assessment of the 
entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, but instead may rely on in-depth knowledge of the business 
and anticipated future prospects. Nevertheless, in accordance with the requirements of this SLAuS, the 
auditor needs to evaluate management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
For smaller entities, it may be appropriate to discuss  the medium and long -term financing of the entity 
with management, provided that management ’s contentions can be corroborated by sufficient 
documentary evidence and are not inconsistent with the auditor ’s understanding of the entity . Therefore, 
the requirement in paragraph 0 for the auditor to request management to extend its assessment may , for 
example, be satisfied by discussion, inquiry and inspection of supporting documentation, for example, 
orders received for future supply , evaluated as to their feasibility or otherwise substantiated. 
A13. Continued support by owner-managers is often important to smaller entity’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. Where a small entity is largely financed by a loan from the o wner-manager, it may be important 
that these funds are not withdrawn. For example, the continuance of a small entity in financial difficulty 
may be dependent on the owner -manager subordinating a loan to the entity in favor of banks or other 
creditors, or the owner-manager supporting a loan for the entity by providing a guarantee with his or her 
personal assets as collateral. In such circumstances, the auditor may obtain appropriate documentary 
evidence of the subordination of the owner -manager’s loan or of the guarantee. Where an entity is 
dependent on additional support from the owner -manager, the auditor may evaluate the owner -manager’s 
ability to meet the obligation under the support arrangement. In addition, the auditor may request written 
confirmation of the terms and conditions attaching to such support and the owner -manager’s intention or 
understanding. 
Period beyond Management’s Assessment (Ref: Para. 15) 
A14. As required by paragraph 0, the auditor remains aler t to the possibility that there may be known events, 
scheduled or otherwise, or conditions that will occur beyond the period of assessment used by 
management that may bring into question the appropriateness of management ’s use of the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements. Since the degree of uncertainty associated with 
the outcome of an event or condition increases as the event or condition is further into the future, in 
considering events or conditions further in the futur e, the indications of going concern issues need to be 
significant before the auditor needs to consider taking further action. If such events or conditions are 
identified, the auditor may need to request management to evaluate the potential significance of the event 
or condition on its assessment of the entity ’s ability to continue as a going concern. In these 
circumstances, the procedures in paragraph 16 apply . 
                                                             
12  For example, LKAS 1 defines this as a period that should be at least, but is not limited to, twelve months 
from the end of the reporting period. 

<!-- page 175 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    175A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
A15. Other than inquiry of management, the auditor does not have a responsibility to perform any other  audit 
procedures to identify events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity ’s ability to 
continue as a going concern beyond the period assessed by management, which, as discussed in paragraph 
0, would be at least twelve months from the date of the financial statements. 
Additional Audit Procedures When Events or Conditions Are Identified (Ref: Para.16) 
A16. Audit procedures that are relevant to the requirement in paragraph 16 may include the following: 
 Analyzing and discussing cash flow, profit and other relevant forecasts with management. 
 Analyzing and discussing the entity’s latest available interim financial statements. 
 Reading the terms of debentures and loan agreements and determining whether a ny have been 
breached.  
 Reading minutes of the meetings of shareholders, those charged with governance and relevant 
committees for reference to financing difficulties. 
 Inquiring of the entity’s legal counsel regarding the existence of litigation and claims  and the 
reasonableness of management’s assessments of their outcome and the estimate of their 
financial implications. 
 Confirming the existence, legality and enforceability of arrangements to provide or maintain 
financial support with related and third parties and assessing the financial ability of such parties 
to provide additional funds. 
 Evaluating the entity’s plans to deal with unfilled customer orders. 
 Performing audit procedures regarding subsequent events to identify those that either mitigate or 
otherwise affect the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
 Confirming the existence, terms and adequacy of borrowing facilities. 
 Obtaining and reviewing reports of regulatory actions. 
 Determining the adequacy of support for any planned disposals of assets. 
Evaluating Management’s Plans for Future Actions (Ref: Para. 16(b)) 
A17. Evaluating management’s plans for future actions may include inquiries of management as to its plans for 
future action, including, for example, its plans to liquidate assets, borr ow money or restructure debt, 
reduce or delay expenditures, or increase capital. 
The Period of Management’s Assessment (Ref: Para. 16(c)) 
A18. In addition to the procedures required in paragraph 16(c), the auditor may compare: 
 The prospective financial information for recent prior periods with historical results; and 
 The prospective financial information for the current period with results achieved to date.  
A19. Where management ’s assumptions include continued support by third parties, whether through the 
subordination of loans, commitments to maintain or provide additional funding, or guarantees, and such 

<!-- page 176 -->

176A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
support is important to an entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, the auditor may need to consider 
requesting written confirmation (including of terms and conditions) from those third parties and to obtain 
evidence of their ability to provide such support. 
Written Representations (Ref: Para. 16(e)) 
A20. The auditor may consider it appropriate to obtain specific written representations beyond those required in 
paragraph 16 in support of audit evidence obtained regarding management ’s plans for future actions in 
relation to its going concern assessment and the feasibility of those plans. 
Auditor Conclusions  
Material Uncertainty Related to Events or Conditions that  May Cast Significant Doubt on the Entity’s 
Ability to Continue as a Going Concern (Ref: Para. 18) 
A21. The phrase “material uncertainty” is used in LKAS 1 in discussing the uncertainties related to events or 
conditions which may cast significant doubt on the e ntity’s ability to continue as a going concern that 
should be disclosed in the financial statements. In some other financial reporting frameworks the phrase 
“significant uncertainty” is used in similar circumstances. 
Adequacy of Disclosure when Events or Conditions Have Been Identified and a Material Uncertainty Exists 
A22. Paragraph 18 explains that a material uncertainty exists when the magnitude of the potential impact of the 
events or conditions and the likelihood of occurrence is such that appropriate discl osure is necessary to 
achieve fair presentation (for fair presentation frameworks) or for the financial statements not to be 
misleading (for compliance frameworks). The auditor is required by paragraph 18 to conclude whether 
such a material uncertainty exi sts regardless of whether or how the applicable financial reporting 
framework defines a material uncertainty .  
A23. Paragraph 19 requires the auditor to determine whether the financial statement disclosures address the 
matters set forth in that paragraph. This determination is in addition to the auditor determining whether 
disclosures about a material uncertainty , required by the applicable financial reporting framework, are 
adequate. Disclosures required by some financial reporting frameworks that are in additi on to matters set 
forth in paragraph 19 may include disclosures about: 
 Management’s evaluation of the significance of the events or conditions relating to the entity’s 
ability to meet its obligations; or 
 Significant judgments made by management as part of its assessment of the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. 
Some financial reporting frameworks may provide additional guidance regarding management’s 
consideration of disclosures about the magnitude of the potential impact of the principal even ts or 
conditions, and the likelihood and timing of their occurrence. 
Adequacy of Disclosures When Events or Conditions Have Been Identified but No Material Uncertainty Exists 
(Ref: Para. 20) 
A24. Even when no material uncertainty exists, paragraph 20 requires t he auditor to evaluate whether, in view 
of the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework, the financial statements provide 
adequate disclosure about events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity ’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. Some financial reporting frameworks may address disclosures about:  
 Principal events or conditions; 

<!-- page 177 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    177A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 Management’s evaluation of the significance of those events or conditions in relation to the 
entity’s ability to meet its obligations; 
 Management’s plans that mitigate the effect of these events or conditions; or 
 Significant judgments made by management as part of its assessment of the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. 
A25. When the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the auditor’s 
evaluation as to whether the financial statements achieve fair presentation includes the consideration of 
the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, and whether the finan cial 
statements, including the related notes, represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation. 13 Depending on the facts and circumstances, the auditor may determine that 
additional disclosures are necessary to achieve fair presentation. This may be the case, for example, when 
events or conditions have been identified that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue 
as a going concern but, based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor conclud es that no material 
uncertainty exists, and no disclosures are explicitly required by the applicable financial reporting 
framework regarding these circumstances. 
Implications for the Auditor’s Report  
Use of Going Concern Basis of Accounting is Inappropriate (Ref: Para. 21) 
A26. If the financial statements have been prepared using the going concern basis of accounting but, in the 
auditor’s judgment, management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in the financial statements 
is inappropriate, the requir ement in paragraph 21 for the auditor to express an adverse opinion applies 
regardless of whether or not the financial statements include disclosure of the inappropriateness of 
management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting. 
A27. When the use of the going concern basis of accounting is not appropriate in the circumstances, 
management may be required, or may elect, to prepare the financial statements on another basis (e.g., 
liquidation basis). The auditor may be able to perform an audit of those financial statements provided that 
the auditor determines that the other basis of accounting is acceptable in the circumstances. The auditor 
may be able to express an unmodified opinion on those financial statements, provided there is adequate 
disclosure therein about the basis of accounting on which the financial statements are prepared, but may 
consider it appropriate or necessary to include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in accordance with 
SLAuS 706 (Revised) 14 in the auditor ’s report to draw the user ’s attent ion to that alternative basis of 
accounting and the reasons for its use.  
Use of the Going Concern Basis of Accounting Is Appropriate but a Material Uncertainty Exists (Ref: Para. 
22‒23) 
A28. The identification of a material uncertainty is a matter that is important to users ’ understanding of the 
financial statements. The use of a separate section with a heading that includes reference to the fact that a 
material uncertainty related to going concern exists alerts users to this circumstance. 
                                                             
13  SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements, paragraph 14 
14   SLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report 

<!-- page 178 -->

178A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
A29. The Appendix to this SLAuS provides illustrations of the statements that are required to be included in the 
auditor’s report on the financial statements when Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs) is th e 
applicable financial reporting framework. If an applicable financial reporting framework other than 
SLFRSs is used, the illustrative statements presented in the Appendix to this SLAuS may need to be 
adapted to reflect the application of the other financial reporting framework in the circumstances. 
A30. Paragraph 22 establishes the minimum information required to be presented in the auditor’s report in each 
of the circumstances described. The auditor may provide additional information to supplement the 
required statements, for example to explain:  
 That the existence of a material uncertainty is fundamental to users’ understanding of the financial 
statements;15 or  
 How the matter was addressed in the audit (see also paragraph A1). 
Adequate Disclosure of a Material Uncertainty Is Made in the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 22) 
A31. Illustration 1 of the Appendix to this SLAuS is an example of an auditor ’s report when the auditor has 
obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the appropriateness of manageme nt’s use of the 
going concern basis of accounting but a material uncertainty exists and disclosure is adequate in the 
financial statements. The Appendix of SLAuS 700 (Revised) also includes illustrative wording to be 
included in the auditor ’s report for al l entities in relation to going concern to describe the respective 
responsibilities of those responsible for the financial statements and the auditor in relation to going 
concern.   
Adequate Disclosure of a Material Uncertainty Is Not Made in the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 23) 
A32. Illustrations 2 and 3 of the Appendix to this SLAuS are examples of auditor’s reports containing qualified 
and adverse opinions, respectively , when the auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the app ropriateness of the management ’s use of the going concern basis of accounting but 
adequate disclosure of a material uncertainty is not made in the financial statements. 
A33. In situations involving multiple uncertainties that are significant to the financial statements as a whole, the 
auditor may consider it appropriate in extremely rare cases to express a disclaimer of opinion instead of 
including the statements required by paragraph 22. SLAuS 705 (Revised) provides guidance on this 
issue.16 
Communication with Regulators (Ref: Para. 2223) 
A34. When the auditor of a regulated entity considers that it may be necessary to include a reference to going 
concern matters in the auditor ’s report, the auditor may have a duty to communicate with the applicable 
regulatory , enforcement or supervisory authorities. 
Management Unwilling to Make or Extend Its Assessment (Ref: Para. 24) 
A35. In certain circumstances, the auditor may believe it necessary to request management to make or extend its 
assessment. If management is unwilling to do  so, a qualified opinion or a disclaimer of opinion in the 
auditor’s report may be appropriate, because it may not be possible for the auditor to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence regarding management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in the 
preparation of the financial statements, such as audit evidence regarding the existence of plans 
management has put in place or the existence of other mitigating factors. 
                                                             
15  SLAuS 706 (Revised), paragraph A2 
16   SLAuS 705 (Revised), paragraph 10 

<!-- page 179 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    179A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Refer Sri   Lanka Auditing Standard 700 (Revised) illustrative reports for localized report 
 
 
Appendix 
   (Ref: Para. A29, A31–A32) 
Illustrations of Auditor’s Reports Relating to Going Concern 
 Illustration 1: An auditor’s report containing an unmodified opinion when the auditor has concluded that 
a material uncertainty exists and disclosure in the financial statements is adequate. 
 Illustration 2: An auditor’s report containing a qualified opinion when the auditor has concluded that a 
material uncertainty exists and that the financial statements are materially misstated due to ina dequate 
disclosure. 
 Illustration 3: An auditor’s report containing an adverse opinion when the auditor has concluded that a 
material uncertainty exists and the financial statements omit the required disclosures relating to a 
material uncertainty. 
  
Illustration 1 – Unmodified Opinion When a Material Uncertainty Exists and Disclosure in the 
Financial Statements Is Adequate  
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed: 
 Audit of a complete set of financial state ments of a listed entity using a fair presentation 
framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 6001 does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri 
Lanka accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management ’s responsibility 
for the financial statements in SLAuS 210.2 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., “clean”) opinion is appropriate based on 
the audit evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit Comprise the Code of Ethics 
issued by CA Sri Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions th at may cast significant doubt on the 
entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. The disclosure of the material uncertainty in 
the financial statements is adequate. 
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701.  
 The auditor ha s obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor ’s 
report and has not yet identified a material misstatement of the other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible 
                                                             
1  SLAuS 600, Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)  
2  SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements  

<!-- page 180 -->

180A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
for the preparation of the financial statements. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities required under local law. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements3 
Opinion 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement of 
financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in 
equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a 
summary of significant accounting policies. 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and Fair View of ( or Present fairly in all material 
respects) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its 
cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
Basis for Opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA  
Sri Lanka. (Code of Ethics)4 and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. 
Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern 
We draw attention to Note XXX in the financial statements, which indicates that the Company incurred a net loss 
of ZZZ during the year ended December 31, 20X1 and, as of that date, the Company’s current liabilities exceeded 
its total assets by YYY . As stated in Note 6, these events or conditions, along with other matters as set forth in Note 
6, indicate that a material uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significanc e in our audit 
of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters . In addition to the matter described in the Material Uncertainty Related to Going 
Concern section, we have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report.  
                                                             
3   The sub-title “Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when  the second sub -title “Report 
on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.  
4  In the event, other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority, reference should be made to suc h 
regulation. 

<!-- page 181 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    181A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701.]  
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as “Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon”] 
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised).] 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements5 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).6] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing the independent 
auditor’s report is [number]. 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm,]  
 
[Audit firm Address] 
 
[Date] 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                             
5  Throughout these illustrative auditor’s reports, the terms management and those charged with governance may need to be replaced 
by another term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.  
6  Paragraphs 34 and 39 of SLAuS 700 (R evised) require wording to be included in the auditor’s report for all entities in relation to 
going concern to describe the respective responsibilities of those responsible for the financial statements and the auditor i n relation 
to going concern. 
 

<!-- page 182 -->

182A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Illustration 2 – Qualified Opinion When a Material Uncertainty Exists and the Financial Statements 
Are Materially Misstated Due to Inadequate Disclosure  
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed: 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentation 
framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 does not apply).   
 The financial statements are p repared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri 
Lanka accounting standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management ’s responsibility for 
the financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the code of Ethics issued by 
CA  Sri Lanka  
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast signifi cant doubt on the entity ’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. Note yy to the financial statements discusses the magnitude of 
financing arrangements, the expiration and the total financing arrangements; however the 
financial statements do not include discussion on the impact or the availability of refinancing or 
characterize this situation as a material uncertainty.  
 The financial statements are materially misstated due to the inadequate disclosure of the 
material uncertainty. A qualified opinion is being expressed because the auditor concluded that 
the effects on the financial statements of this inadequate disclosure are material but not 
pervasive to the financial statements. 
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor ’s report 
and the matter giving rise to the qualified opinion on the financial statements also affects the 
other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial st atements differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities required under local law. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements7 
Qualified Opinion 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement of 
financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in 
equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a 
summary of significant accounting policies. 
                                                             
7  The sub-title “Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title “ Report 
on Other Legal and Requirement” is not applicable.  

<!-- page 183 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    183A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
In our opinion, except for the incomplete disclosure of the information referred to in the Basis for Qualified Opinion 
section of our report, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of (or present fairly in all 
material respects) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance 
and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards . 
Basis for Qualified Opinion 
 
As discussed in Note yy , the Company’s financing arrangements expire and amounts outstanding are payable on 
March 19, 20X2. The Company has been unable to conclude re-negotiations or obtain replacement financing. This 
situation indicates that a material uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not adequately disclose this matter. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka (code of Ethics) 8 and we have fulfilled our other eth ical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our qualified opinion. 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as “Informa tion Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon”] 
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustration 6 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised). The last paragraph of the other information s ection in Illustration 6 
would be customized to describe the specific matter giving rise to the qualified opinion that also affects the 
other information.] 
Key Audit Matters 
 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion o n these 
matters. In addition to the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion section, we have determined the 
matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.  
[Descriptions of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701.]  
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements9 
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised). 10] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
                                                             
8  In the event, other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any re gulatory authorities reference should be made to such 
regulations.  
9  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular      jurisdiction   
10  Paragraphs 34 and 39 of SLAuS 700 (Revised) require wording to be inclu ded in the auditor’s report for all entities in relation to 
going concern to describe the respective responsibilities of those responsible for the financial statements and the auditor i n relation 
to going concern. 

<!-- page 184 -->

184A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing the independent 
auditor’s report is [number]. 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] 
 
[Audit firm Address] 
 
[Date]  
 
Illustration 3 – Adverse Opinion When a Material Uncertainty Exists and Is Not Disclosed in the 
Financial Statements 
For purposes of the illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed: 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using a fair 
presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri 
Lanka accounting standards. (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management ’s responsibility for 
the financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit Comprise the Code of Ethics issued 
by CA Sri Lanka 
 Based on the aud it evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity ’s ability to 
continue as a going concern , and the Company is considering bankruptcy. The financ ial 
statements omit the required disclosures relating to the material uncertainty. An adverse 
opinion is being expressed because the effects on the financial statements of such omission are 
material and pervasive. 
 The auditor is not required, and has other wise not decided, to communicate key audit matters 
in accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor ’s report 
and the matter giving rise to the adverse opinion on the financial statements a lso affects the 
other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other report ing 
responsibilities required under local law. 

<!-- page 185 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    185A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements11  
Adverse Opinion 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement of 
financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in 
equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financia l statements, including a 
summary of significant accounting policies. 
In our opinion, because of the omission of the information mentioned in the Basis for Adverse Opinion section of our 
report, the accompanying financial statements do not give a true and fair view of (or do not present fairly in all 
material respects) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and of its financial performance 
and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
Basis for Adverse Opinion 
The Company’s financing arrangements expired and the amount outstanding was payable on December 31, 20X1. 
The Company has been unable to conclude re-negotiations or obtain replacement financing and is considering filing 
for bankruptcy. This situation indicates that a material uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not adequately disclose this fact. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka.( Code of Ethics)12 and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our adverse 
opinion. 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as “Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon”] 
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustr ation 7 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised). The last paragraph of the Other Information section in Illustration 7 
would be customized to describe the specific matter giving rise to the adverse opinion that also affects the 
other information.] 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements13 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised). 14] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 3 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
                                                             
11   The sub-title “Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title “Report 
on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.  
12  In the event, other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority, refe rence should be made to such 
regulation. 
13  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction.  
14  Paragraphs 34 and 39 of SLAuS 700 (Revised) require wording to be included in the auditor’s report for all entities in relation to 
going concern to describe the respective responsibilities of those responsible for the financial statements and the auditor i n relation 
to going concern. 

<!-- page 186 -->

186A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] 
 
[Auditor Address] 
 
[Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 187 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    187A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 610  
(REVISED) 
USING THE WORK OF INTERNAL AUDITORS 
 (Effective for audits of financial statements for periods  
ending on or after 31 March 2018) 
CONTENTS 
 Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS ………………………………………………………………….……. 15 
Relationship between SLAuS 315 (Revised) and SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013)   
The External Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit …………………………….…………  11 
Effective Date ………………………………………………………………………………  12 
Objectives ………………………………………………………………………………….  13 
Definitions ………………………………………………………………………………….  14 
Requirements 
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent the Work  
of the Internal Audit Function Can Be Used ……………………………………………….  1520 
Using the Work of the Internal Audit Function …………………………………………….  2125 
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent Internal  
Auditors Can Be Used to Provide Direct Assistance……………………………………….  2632 
Using Internal Auditors to Provide Direct Assistance ……………………………………..  3335 
Documentation ……………………………………………………………………………..  3637 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Definition of Internal Audit Function………………………………………………………  A1A4 
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent the Work  
of the Internal Audit Function Can Be Used ……………………………………………….  A5A23 
Using the Work of the Internal Audit Function …………………………………………….  A24A30 
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent Internal  
Auditors Can Be Used to Provide Direct Assistance……………………………………….  A31A39 
Using Internal Auditors to Provide Direct Assistance ………………………………………  A40A41 
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 610 (Revised 2013), Using the W ork of Internal Auditors, should 
be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct 
of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 

<!-- page 188 -->

188A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Introduction  
Scope of this SLAuS  
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the external auditor’s responsibilities if using the 
work of internal auditors. This includes (a) using the work of the internal audit function in obtaining 
audit evidence and (b) using internal auditors to provide direct assistance under the direction, 
supervision and review of the external auditor.  
2. This SLAuS does not apply if the entity does not have an internal audit function. (Ref: Para. A2)  
3. If the entity has an internal audit function, the requirements in this SLAuS relating to using the work of 
that function do not apply if:  
(a)  The responsibilities and activities of the function are not relevant to the audit; or 
(b)  Based on the auditor’s preliminary understanding of the function obtained as a result of 
procedures performed under SLAuS 315 (Revised), 1 the external auditor does not expect to use 
the work of the function in obtaining audit evidence. 
Nothing in this SLAuS requires the external auditor to use the work of the internal audit function to 
modify the nature or timing, or reduce the extent, of audit proc edures to be performed directly by the 
external auditor; it remains a decision of the external auditor in establishing the overall audit strategy.  
4. Furthermore, the requirements in this SLAuS relating to direct assistance do not apply if the external 
auditor does not plan to use internal auditors to provide direct assistance. 
5. In some jurisdictions, the external auditor may be prohibited, or restricted to some extent, by law or 
regulation from using the work of the internal audit function or using inte rnal auditors to provide direct 
assistance. The SLAuS do not override laws or regulations that govern an audit of financial statements. 2 
Such prohibitions or restrictions will therefore not prevent the external auditor from complying with the 
SLAuS. (Ref: Para. A31) 
Relationship between SLAuS 315 (Revised) and SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013) 
6. Many entities establish internal audit functions as part of their internal control and governance 
structures. The objectives and scope of an internal audit function, the nature of its responsibilities and its 
organizational status, including the function’s authority and accountability, vary widely and depend on the 
size and structure of the entity and the requirements of management and, where applicable, those charged with 
governance. 
7. SLAuS 315 (Revised) addresses how the knowledge and experience of the internal audit function can 
inform the external auditor’s understanding of the entity and its environment and identification and 
assessment of risks of material misstatemen t. SLAuS 315 (Revised) 3 also explains how effective 
communication between the internal and external auditors also creates an environment in which the 
external auditor can be informed of significant matters that may affect the external auditor’s work. 
8. Depending on whether the internal audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and 
procedures adequately support the objectivity of the internal auditors, the level of competency of the 
internal audit function, and whether the function applie s a systematic and disciplined approach, the 
                                                             
1  SLAuS 315 (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Mi sstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its 
Environment 
2  SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards, paragraph A57 
3  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph A120  

<!-- page 189 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    189A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
external auditor may also be able to use the work of the internal audit function in a constructive and 
complementary manner. This SLAuS addresses the external auditor’s responsibilities when, based on the 
external auditor’s preliminary understanding of the internal audit function obtained as a result of 
procedures performed under SLAuS 315 (Revised), the external auditor expects to use the work of the 
internal audit function as part of the audit evidence obtained.4 Such use of that work modifies the nature 
or timing, or reduces the extent, of audit procedures to be performed directly by the external auditor.  
9. In addition, this SLAuS also addresses the external auditor’s responsibilities if considering using 
internal auditors to provide direct assistance under the direction, supervision and review of the external 
auditor. 
 
10. There may be individuals in an entity that perform procedures similar to those performed by an internal 
audit function. However, unless pe rformed by an objective and competent function that applies a 
systematic and disciplined approach, including quality control, such procedures would be considered 
internal controls and obtaining evidence regarding the effectiveness of such controls would be  part of 
the auditor’s responses to assessed risks in accordance with SLAuS 330.5   
 
The External Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit 
 
11. The external auditor has sole responsibility for the audit opinion expressed, and that responsibility is not 
reduced by the external auditor’s use of the work of the internal audit function or internal auditors to 
provide direct assistance on the engagement. Although they may perform audit procedures similar to 
those performed by the external auditor, neither the inte rnal audit function nor the internal auditors are 
independent of the entity as is required of the external auditor in an audit of financial statements in 
accordance with SLAuS 200. 6 This SLAuS, therefore, defines the conditions that are necessary for the 
external auditor to be able to use the work of internal auditors. It also defines the necessary work effort 
to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence that the work of the internal audit function, or internal auditors 
providing direct assistance, is adequate  for the purposes of the audit. The requirements are designed to 
provide a framework for the external auditor’s judgments regarding the use of the work of internal 
auditors to prevent over or undue use of such work. 
Effective Date 
12. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after 31 March 2018.   
Objectives 
13. The objectives of the external auditor, where the entity has an internal audit function and the external 
auditor expects to use the work of the function to modify the nature or timing, or reduce the extent, of 
audit procedures to be performed directly by the external auditor, or to use internal auditors to provide 
direct assistance, are: 
(a) To determine whether the work of the internal audit function or direct assistance from internal 
auditors can be used, and if so, in which areas and to what extent;  
and having made that determination: 
                                                             
4  See paragraphs 15–25.  
5  SLAuS 330, The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks  
6  SLAuS 200, paragraph 14 

<!-- page 190 -->

190A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(b) If using the work of the internal audit function, to determine whether that work is adequate for 
purposes of the audit; and  
(c) If using internal auditors to provide direct assistance, to appropriately direct, supervise and review 
their work. 
Definitions 
14.   For purposes of the SLAuS, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:  
(a)   Internal audit function – A function of an entity that performs assurance and consulting activities 
designed to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the entity’s governance, risk management 
and internal control processes. (Ref: Para. A1–A4)  
 
(b)  Direct assistance – The use of internal auditors to perform audit procedures under the direction, 
supervision and review of the external auditor. 
 
Requirements 
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent the Work of the Internal Audit Function 
Can Be Used 
Evaluating the Internal Audit Function  
15. The external auditor shall determine whether the work of the internal audit function can be used for 
purposes of the audit by evaluating the following:  
(a)  The extent to which the internal audit function’s organizational status and rel evant policies and 
procedures support the objectivity of the internal auditors; (Ref: Para. A5–A9) 
(b) The level of competence of the internal audit function; and (Ref: Para. A5–A9) 
(c) Whether the internal audit function applies a systematic and disciplin ed approach, including 
quality control. (Ref: Para. A10–A11) 
16. The external auditor shall not use the work of the internal audit function if the external auditor 
determines that:  
(a) The function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedu res do not adequately 
support the objectivity of internal auditors; 
(b)  The function lacks sufficient competence; or 
(c)  The function does not apply a systematic and disciplined approach, including quality control. 
(Ref: Para. A12–A14) 
 
Determining the Nature and Extent of Work of the Internal Audit Function that Can Be Used  
17. As a basis for determining the areas and the extent to which the work of the internal audit function can 
be used, the external auditor shall consider the nature and scope of the work that has been performed, or 
is planned to be performed, by the internal audit function and its relevance to the external auditor’s 
overall audit strategy and audit plan. (Ref: Para. A15–A17)  
18. The external auditor shall make all significant judgments in the audit engagement and, to prevent undue 
use of the work of the internal audit function, shall plan to use less of the work of the function and 
perform more of the work directly: (Ref: Para. A15–A17) 

<!-- page 191 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    191A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(a) The more judgment is involved in: 
(i)  Planning and performing relevant audit procedures; and  
(ii)  Evaluating the audit evidence gathered; (Ref: Para. A18–A19) 
(b) The higher the assessed risk of material misstatement at the assertion level, with special consideration 
given to risks identified as significant; (Ref: Para. A20–A22) 
(c) The less the internal audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures 
adequately support the objectivity of the internal auditors; and 
(d) The lower the level of competence of the internal audit function.  
19. The external auditor shall also evaluate whether, in aggregate, using the work of the internal audit 
function to the extent planned would still result in the external auditor being sufficiently involved in the 
audit, given the external auditor’s sole responsibility for the audit opinion expressed. (Ref: Para. A15 –
A22) 
20. The external auditor shall, in communicating with those charged with governance an overview of the 
planned scope and timing of the audit in accordance with SLAuS 260 (Revised),7 communicate how the 
external auditor has planned to use the work of the internal audit function. (Ref: Para. A23) 
Using the Work of the Internal Audit Function 
21. If the external auditor plans to use the work of the internal audit function, the external auditor shall discuss 
the planned use of its work with the function as a basis for coordinating their respective activities. (Ref: 
Para. A24–A26) 
22. The external auditor shall read the reports of the internal audit function relating to the work of the function 
that the external auditor plans to use to obtain an understanding of the nature and extent of audit 
procedures it performed and the related findings.  
23. The external auditor shall perform sufficient audit procedures on the body of work of the internal audit 
function as a whole that the external auditor plans to use to determine its adequacy for purposes of the 
audit, including evaluating whether:  
(a) The work of the function had been properly planned, performed, supervised, reviewed and 
documented; 
(b)  Sufficient appropriate evidence had been obtained to enable the function to draw reasonable 
conclusions; and 
(c)  Conclusions reached are appropriate in the circumstances and the reports prepared by the function 
are consistent with the results of the work performed. (Ref: Para. A27–A30) 
24. The nature and extent of the external auditor’s audit procedures shall be responsive to the external 
auditor’s evaluation of: 
(a)  The amount of judgment involved; 
(b) The assessed risk of material misstatement;  
                                                             
7  SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance , paragraph 15 

<!-- page 192 -->

192A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(c)  The extent to which the internal audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and 
procedures support the objectivity of the internal auditors; and  
(d)  The level of competence of the function;8 (Ref: Para. A27–A29) 
and shall include reperformance of some of the work. (Ref: Para. A30) 
25. The external auditor shall also evaluate whether the external auditor’s conclusions regarding the internal 
audit function in paragraph 15 of this SLAuS and the determination of the nature and extent of use of the 
work of the function for purposes of the audit in paragraphs 18–19 of this SLAuS remain appropriate. 
 
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent Internal Auditors Can Be Used to Provide 
Direct Assistance  
Determining Whether Internal Auditors Can Be Used to Provide Direct Assistance for Purposes of the Audit 
 
26. The external auditor may be prohibited by law or regulation from obtaining direct assistance from 
internal auditors. If so, paragraphs 27–35 and 37 do not apply. (Ref: Para. A31) 
27. If using internal auditors to provide direct assistance is not prohibited by law or regulation, and the 
external auditor plans to use internal auditors to provide direct assistance on the audit, the external 
auditor shall evaluate the existence and significance of threats to objectivity and the level of competence 
of the internal auditors who will be providing such assistance. The external auditor’s evaluation of the 
existence and significance of threats to the internal auditors’ objectiv ity shall include inquiry of the 
internal auditors regarding interests and relationships that may create a threat to their objectivity. (Ref: 
Para. A32–A34) 
28. The external auditor shall not use an internal auditor to provide direct assistance if:  
(a) There are significant threats to the objectivity of the internal auditor; or 
(b)  The internal auditor lacks sufficient competence to perform the proposed work. (Ref: Para. A32 –
A34) 
Determining the Nature and Extent of Work that Can Be Assigned to Internal Auditors Providing Direct 
Assistance  
29. In determining the nature and extent of work that may be assigned to internal auditors and the nature, timing 
and extent of direction, supervision and review that is appropriate in the circumstances, the external auditor 
shall consider: 
(a) The amount of judgment involved in: 
(i)  Planning and performing relevant audit procedures; and  
(ii)  Evaluating the audit evidence gathered;  
(b) The assessed risk of material misstatement; and 
(c) The external auditor’s evaluation of the existence and significance of threats to the objectivity and 
level of competence of the internal auditors who will be providing such assistance. (Ref: Para. 
A35–A39) 
30. The external auditor shall not use internal auditors to provide direct assistance to perform procedures that: 
(a) Involve making significant judgments in the audit; (Ref: Para. A19)   
                                                             
8   See paragraph 18. 

<!-- page 193 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    193A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(b) Relate to higher assessed risks of material misstatement where the judgment required in performing the 
relevant audit procedures or evaluating the audit evidence gathered is more than limited; (Ref: Para. 
A38) 
(c) Relate to work with which the internal auditors have been involved and which has already been, or will 
be, reported to management or those charged with governance by the internal audit function; or 
(d)  Relate to decisions the external auditor makes in accordance with this SLAuS regarding the internal 
audit function and the use of its work or direct assistance. (Ref: Para. A35–A39) 
31. Having appropriately evaluated whether and, if so, t o what extent internal auditors can be used to 
provide direct assistance on the audit, the external auditor shall, in communicating with those charged 
with governance an overview of the planned scope and timing of the audit in  accordance with SLAuS 
260 (Revised),9 communicate the nature and extent of the planned use of  internal auditors to provide 
direct assistance so as to reach a mutual understanding that such use is not excessive in the circumstances 
of the engagement. (Ref: Para. A39) 
32. The external a uditor shall evaluate whether, in aggregate, using internal auditors to provide direct 
assistance to the extent planned, together with the planned use of the work of the internal audit function, 
would still result in the external auditor being sufficiently  involved in the audit, given the external 
auditor’s sole responsibility for the audit opinion expressed. 
Using Internal Auditors to Provide Direct Assistance 
33. Prior to using internal auditors to provide direct assistance for purposes of the audit, the external auditor shall:  
(a) Obtain written agreement from an authorized representative of the entity that the internal auditors will 
be allowed to follow the external auditor’s instructions, and that the entity will not intervene in the 
work the internal auditor performs for the external auditor; and 
(b) Obtain written agreement from the internal auditors that they will keep confidential specific matters as 
instructed by the external auditor and inform the external auditor of any threat to their objectivity. 
 
34. The external auditor shall direct, supervise and review the work performed by internal auditors on the 
engagement in accordance with SLAuS 220.10 In so doing: 
(a)  The nature, timing and extent  of direction, supervision, and review shall recognize that the 
internal auditors are not independent of the entity and be responsive to the outcome of the 
evaluation of the factors in paragraph 29 of this SLAuS; and  
(b) The review procedures shall include the external auditor checking back to the underlying audit 
evidence for some of the work performed by the internal auditors.  
The direction, supervision and review by the external auditor of the work performed by the internal auditors 
shall be sufficient in order for the external auditor to be satisfied that the inte rnal auditors have obtained 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support the conclusions based on that work. (Ref: Para. A40 –
A41) 
                                                             
9  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph 15  
10  SLAuS 220, Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements  

<!-- page 194 -->

194A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
35. In directing, supervising and reviewing the work performed by internal auditors, the external auditor 
shall remain alert for indications that the external auditor’s evaluations in paragraph 27 are no longer 
appropriate. 
 
Documentation  
36. If the external auditor uses the work of the internal audit function, the external auditor shall include in 
the audit documentation: 
(a) The evaluation of: 
(i) Whether the function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures 
adequately support the objectivity of the internal auditors; 
(ii)  The level of competence of the function; and  
(iii)  Whether the function applies a syste matic and disciplined approach, including quality 
control; 
(b) The nature and extent of the work used and the basis for that decision; and 
(c) The audit procedures performed by the external auditor to evaluate the adequacy of the work 
used. 
 
37. If the external auditor uses internal auditors to provide direct assistance on the audit, the external auditor 
shall include in the audit documentation: 
(a) The evaluation of the existence and significance of threats to the objectivity of the internal 
auditors, and the level of competence of the internal auditors used to provide direct assistance; 
(b) The basis for the decision regarding the nature and extent of the work performed by the internal 
auditors;  
(c) Who reviewed the work performed and the date and extent of that review in accordance with 
SLAuS 230;11 
(d) The written agreements obtained from an authorized representative of the entity and the internal 
auditors under paragraph 33 of this SLAuS; and 
(e) The working papers prepared by the internal auditors who provided direct assistance on the audit 
engagement.   
*** 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Definition of Internal Audit Function (Ref: Para. 2, 14(a)) 
A1. The objectives and scope of internal audit functions typically include assurance and consulting activities 
designed to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the entity’s governance processes, risk management 
and internal control such as the following: 
Activities Relating to Governance 
 The internal audit function may assess the governance process in its accomplishment of objectives 
on ethics and values, performance management and accountability, communicating risk and control 
                                                             
11  SLAuS 230, Audit Documentation 

<!-- page 195 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    195A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
information to appropriate areas of the organization and effectiveness of communication among 
those charged with governance, external and internal auditors, and management. 
Activities Relating to Risk Management 
 The internal audit function may assist the entity by identifying and evaluating significant 
exposures to risk and contributing to the improvement of risk management and int ernal control 
(including effectiveness of the financial reporting process). 
 The internal audit function may perform procedures to assist the entity in the detection of fraud. 
Activities Relating to Internal Control 
 Evaluation of internal control. The internal audit function may be assigned specific responsibility 
for reviewing controls, evaluating their operation and recommending improvements thereto. In 
doing so, the internal audit function provides assurance on the control. For example, the internal 
audit function might plan and perform tests or other procedures to provide assurance to 
management and those charged with governance regarding the design, implementation and 
operating effectiveness of internal control, including those controls that are relevant to the audit. 
 Examination of financial and operating information. The internal audit function may be assigned 
to review the means used to identify, recognize, measure, classify and report financial and operating 
information, and to make specific inquiry i nto individual items, including detailed testing of 
transactions, balances and procedures. 
 Review of operating activities. The internal audit function may be assigned to review the 
economy, efficiency and effectiveness of operating activities, including non-financial activities of 
an entity. 
 Review of compliance with laws and regulations. The internal audit function may be assigned to 
review compliance with laws, regulations and other external requirements, and with management 
policies and directives and other internal requirements.  
A2. Activities similar to those performed by an internal audit function may be conducted by functions with 
other titles within an entity. Some or all of the activities of an internal audit function may also be 
outsourced to a th ird-party service provider. Neither the title of the function, nor whether it is 
performed by the entity or a third -party service provider, are sole determinants of whether or not the 
external auditor can use the work of the function. Rather, it is the nature of the activities; the extent to 
which the internal audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures support 
the objectivity of the internal auditors; competence; and systematic and disciplined approach of the 
function that are relevant. References in this SLAuS to the work of the internal audit function include 
relevant activities of other functions or third-party providers that have these characteristics. 
A3. In addition, those in the entity with operational and managerial d uties and responsibilities outside of 
the internal audit function would ordinarily face threats to their objectivity that would preclude them 
from being treated as part of an internal audit function for the purpose of this SLAuS, although they 
may perform control activities that can be tested in accordance with SLAuS 330. 12 For this reason, 
monitoring controls performed by an owner -manager would not be considered equivalent to an 
internal audit function. 
                                                             
12  See paragraph 10.  

<!-- page 196 -->

196A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
A4. While the objectives of an entity’s internal audit  function and the external auditor differ, the function 
may perform audit procedures similar to those performed by the external auditor in an audit of 
financial statements. If so, the external auditor may make use of the function for purposes of the audit 
in one or more of the following ways: 
 To obtain information that is relevant to the external auditor’s assessments of the risks of material 
misstatement due to error or fraud. In this regard, SLAuS 315 (Revised) 13 requires the external 
auditor to obtain an understanding of the nature of the internal audit function’s responsibilities, its 
status within the organization, and the activities performed, or to be performed, and make 
inquiries of appropriate individuals within the internal audit function (if the en tity has such a 
function); or 
 Unless prohibited, or restricted to some extent, by law or regulation,  the external auditor, after 
appropriate evaluation, may decide to use work that has been performed by the internal audit 
function during the period in part ial substitution for audit evidence to be obtained directly by the 
external auditor.14 
In addition, unless prohibited, or restricted to some extent, by law or regulation, the external auditor may 
use internal auditors to perform audit procedures under the d irection, supervision and review of the 
external auditor (referred to as “direct assistance” in this SLAuS).15 
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent the Work of the Internal Audit Function 
Can Be Used  
Evaluating the Internal Audit Function  
Objectivity and Competence (Ref: Para. 15(a)–(b)) 
A5. The external auditor exercises professional judgment in determining whether the work of the internal 
audit function can be used for purposes of the audit, and the nature and extent to which the work of the 
internal audit function can be used in the circumstances.  
A6. The extent to which the internal audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and 
procedures support the objectivity of the internal auditors and the level of competence of the function 
are particularly important in determining whether to use and, if so, the nature and extent of the use of 
the work of the function that is appropriate in the circumstances.  
A7. Objectivity refers to the ability to perform those tasks withou t allowing bias, conflict of interest or 
undue influence of others to override professional judgments. Factors that may affect the external 
auditor’s evaluation include the following: 
 Whether the organizational status of the internal audit function, including the function’s authority 
and accountability, supports the ability of the function to be free from bias, conflict of interest or 
undue influence of others to override professional judgments. For example, whether the internal 
audit function reports to th ose charged with governance or an officer with appropriate authority, 
or if the function reports to management, whether it has direct access to those charged with 
governance.  
 Whether the internal audit function is free of any conflicting responsibilities, for example, having 
managerial or operational duties or responsibilities that are outside of the internal audit function. 
                                                             
13   SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 6(a)  
14  See paragraphs 15–25. 
15  See paragraphs 26–35. 

<!-- page 197 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    197A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 Whether those charged with governance oversee employment decisions related to the internal 
audit function, for example, determining the appropriate remuneration policy.  
 Whether there are any constraints or restrictions placed on the internal audit function by 
management or those charged with governance, for example, in communicating the internal audit 
function’s findings to the external auditor. 
 Whether the internal auditors are members of relevant professional bodies and their memberships 
obligate their compliance with relevant professional standards relating to objectivity, or whether 
their internal policies achieve the same objectives. 
A8. Competence of the internal audit function refers to the attainment and maintenance of knowledge and 
skills of the function as a whole at the level required to enable assigned tasks to be performed 
diligently and in accordance with applicable profess ional standards. Factors that may affect the 
external auditor’s determination include the following: 
 Whether the internal audit function is adequately and appropriately resourced relative to the size 
of the entity and the nature of its operations. 
 Whether there are established policies for hiring, training and assigning internal auditors to 
internal audit engagements. 
 Whether the internal auditors have adequate technical training and proficiency in auditing. 
Relevant criteria that may be considered by the e xternal auditor in making the assessment may 
include, for example, the internal auditors’ possession of a relevant professional designation and 
experience. 
 Whether the internal auditors possess the required knowledge relating to the entity’s financial 
reporting and the applicable financial reporting framework and whether the internal audit function 
possesses the necessary skills (for example, industry-specific knowledge) to perform work related 
to the entity’s financial statements.  
 Whether the internal aud itors are members of relevant professional bodies that oblige them to  
comply with the relevant professional standards including continuing professional development 
requirements. 
A9. Objectivity and competence may be viewed as a continuum. The more the internal audit function’s 
organizational status and relevant policies and procedures adequately support  the objectivity of the 
internal auditors and the higher the level of competence of the function, the more likely the external 
auditor may make use of the wo rk of the function and in more areas. However, an organizational 
status and relevant policies and procedures that provide strong support for the objectivity of the 
internal auditors cannot compensate for the lack of sufficient competence of the internal au dit 
function. Equally, a high level of competence of the internal audit function cannot compensate for an 
organizational status and policies and procedures that do not adequately support the objectivity of the 
internal auditors. 
Application of a Systematic and Disciplined Approach (Ref: Para. 15(c)) 
A10. The application of a systematic and disciplined approach to planning, performing, supervising, 
reviewing and documenting its activities distinguishes the activities of the internal audit function from 
other monitoring control activities that may be performed within the entity. 

<!-- page 198 -->

198A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
A11. Factors that may affect the external auditor’s determination of whether the internal audit function 
applies a systematic and disciplined approach include the following: 
 The existence, adequacy and use of documented internal audit procedures or guidance covering 
such areas as risk assessments, work programs, documentation and reporting, the nature and 
extent of which is commensurate with the size and circumstances of an entity. 
 Whether the internal audit function has appropriate quality control policies and procedures, for 
example, such as those policies and procedures in SLSQC 1 16 that would be applicable to an 
internal audit function (such as those relating to leadership, human reso urces and engagement 
performance) or quality control requirements in standards set by the relevant professional bodies 
for internal auditors. Such bodies may also establish other appropriate requirements such as 
conducting periodic external quality assessments. 
 Circumstances When Work of the Internal Audit Function Cannot Be Used (Ref: Para. 16) 
A12.  The external auditor’s evaluation of whether the internal audit function’s organizational status and 
relevant policies and procedures adequately support the objectivity of the internal auditors, the level of 
competence of the internal audit function, and whether it applies a systematic and disciplined 
approach may indicate that the risks to the quality of the work of the function are too significant and 
therefore it is not appropriate to use any of the work of the function as audit evidence. 
A13.  Consideration of the factors in paragraphs A7, A8 and A11 of this SLAuS individually and in 
aggregate is important because an individual factor is often not sufficient to conclude that the work of 
the internal audit function cannot be used for purposes of the audit. For example, the internal audit 
function’s organizational status is particularly important in evaluating threats to the objectivity of the 
internal auditors. If the internal audit function reports to management, this would be considered a 
significant threat to the function’s objectivity unless other factors such as those described in paragraph 
A7 of this SLAuS collectively provide sufficient safeguards to reduce the threat to an acceptable level. 
A14. In addition, the CA Sri Lanka Code 17 states that a self -review threat is created when the external 
auditor accepts an engagement to provide internal audit services to an audit client, and the results of 
those serv ices will be used in conducting the audit. This is because of the possibility that the 
engagement team will use the results of the internal audit service without properly evaluating those 
results or without exercising the same level of professional skepticism as would be exercised when the 
internal audit work is performed by individuals who are not members of the firm. The CA Sri Lanka 
Code18 discusses the prohibitions that apply in certain circumstances and the safeguards that can be 
applied to reduce the threats to an acceptable level in other circumstances. 
 
Determining the Nature and Extent of Work of the Internal Audit Function that Can Be Used  
Factors Affecting the Determination of the Nature and Extent of the Work of the Internal Audit Function that 
Can Be Used (Ref: Para. 17–19) 
A15. Once the external auditor has determined that the work of the internal audit function can be used for 
purposes of the audit, a first consideration is whether the planned nature and scope of the work of the 
internal audit function that has been performed, or is planned to be performed,  is relevant to the 
                                                             
16   Sri Lanka Standard on Quality Control (SLS QC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial 
Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements  
17  The Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code), Section 290.194 
18  CA Sri Lanka Code, Section 290.190–290.195 

<!-- page 199 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    199A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
overall audit strategy and audit plan that the external auditor has established in accordance with SLAuS 
300.19 
A16. Examples of work of the internal audit function that can  be used by the external auditor include the 
following:  
 Testing of the operating effectiveness of controls. 
 Substantive procedures involving limited judgment. 
 Observations of inventory counts. 
 Tracing transactions through the information system relevant to financial reporting. 
 Testing of compliance with regulatory requirements. 
 
In some circumstances, audits or reviews of the financial information of subsidiaries that are not 
significant components to the group (where this does not conflict with the requir ements of SLAuS 
600).20 
 
A17. The external auditor’s determination of the planned nature and extent of use of the work of the internal 
audit function will be influenced by the  external auditor’s evaluation of the extent to which the internal 
audit function’ s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures adequately support the 
objectivity of the internal auditors and the level of competence of the internal audit function in paragraph 18 
of this SLAuS. In addition, the amount of judgment needed in planning, performing and evaluating such 
work and the assessed risk of material misstatement at the assertion level are inputs to the external 
auditor’s determination. Further, there are circumstances in which the external auditor cannot use the 
work of the internal audit function for purpose of the audit as described in paragraph 16 of this SLAuS.  
Judgments in planning and performing audit procedures and evaluating results (Ref: Para. 18(a), 30(a)) 
A18. The greater the judgment needed to be exercised in planning and performing the audit procedures and 
evaluating the audit evidence, the external auditor will need to perform more procedures directly in 
accordance with paragraph 18 of this SLAuS, because using the work of the internal audit function 
alone will not provide the external auditor with sufficient appropriate audit evidence. 
A19. Since the external auditor has sole responsibility for the audit opinion expressed, the external auditor 
needs to make the significant judgments in the audit engagement in  accordance with paragraph 18 . 
Significant judgments include the following: 
 Assessing the risks of material misstatement; 
 Evaluating the sufficiency of tests performed;  
 Evaluating the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern assumption;  
 Evaluating significant accounting estimates; and 
 Evaluating the adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements, and other matters affecting the 
auditor’s report.  
                                                             
19  SLAuS 300, Planning an Audit of Financial Statements  
20  SLAuS 600, Special Considerations —Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)  

<!-- page 200 -->

200A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Assessed risk of material misstatement (Ref: Para. 18(b)) 
A20. For a particular account balance, class of transaction or disclosure, the higher an assessed risk of material 
misstatement at the assertion level, the more judgment is often involved in planning and performing the 
audit procedures and evaluating the results thereof. In such circumstances, the external auditor will need to 
perform more procedures directly in accordance with paragraph 18 of this SLAuS, and accordingly, make 
less use of the work of the internal audit function in obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence.  
Furthermore, as explained in SLAuS 200,21 the higher the assessed risks of material misstatement, the 
more persuasive the audit evidence required by the external auditor will need to be, and, therefore, the 
external auditor will need to perform more of the work directly.  
A21. As explained in SLAuS 315 (Revised), 22 significant risks require special audit consideration and 
therefore the external auditor’s ability to use the work of the internal audit function in relation to 
significant risks will be restricted to procedures that involve limited judgment. In addition, where the risks 
of material misstatement is other than low, the use of the work of the internal audit function alone is 
unlikely to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level and eliminate the need for t he external auditor 
to perform some tests directly. 
A22. Carrying out procedures in accordance with this SLAuS may cause the external auditor to reevaluate the 
external auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement. Consequently, this may affe ct the 
external auditor’s determination of whether to use the work of the internal audit function and whether 
further application of this SLAuS is necessary. 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 20) 
A23. In accordance with SLAuS 260  (Revised),23 the external auditor is required to communicate with 
those charged with governance an overview of the planned scope and timing of the audit. The planned 
use of the work of the internal audit function is an integral part of the external auditor ’s overall audit 
strategy and is therefore relevant to those charged with governance for their understanding of the 
proposed audit approach. 
Using the Work of the Internal Audit Function  
Discussion and Coordination with the Internal Audit Function (Ref: Para. 21) 
A24. In discussing the planned use of their work with the internal audit function as a basis for coordinating 
the respective activities, it may be useful to address the following: 
 The timing of such work. 
 The nature of the work performed. 
 The extent of audit coverage. 
 Materiality for the financial statements as a whole (and, if applicable, materiality level or levels 
for particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures), and performance 
materiality. 
 Proposed methods of item selection and sample sizes. 
 Documentation of the work performed. 
 Review and reporting procedures. 
                                                             
21  SLAuS 200, paragraph A31 
22  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 4(e) 
23  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph 15  

<!-- page 201 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    201A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
A25. Coordination between the external auditor and the internal audit function is effective when, for example: 
 Discussions take place at appropriate intervals throughout the period. 
 The external auditor informs the internal audit function of significant matters that may affect the 
function. 
 The external auditor is advised of and has access to relevant reports of the internal audit function and 
is informed of any significant matters that come to the attention of the function when such matters may 
affect the work of the external auditor so that the external auditor is able to consider the implications of 
such matters for the audit engagement. 
 
A26. SLAuS 200 24 discusses the importance of the auditor planning and performing the audit with 
professional skepticism, including being alert to information that brings into question the reliability of 
documents and responses to inquiries to be used as audit evidence. Accordingly,  communication with 
the internal audit function throughout the engagement may provide opportunities for internal auditors 
to bring matters that may affect the work of the external auditor to the external auditor’s attention.25 The 
external auditor is then a ble to take such information into account in the external auditor’s 
identification and assessment of risks of material misstatement. In addition, if such information may 
be indicative of a heightened risk of a material misstatement of the financial stateme nts or may be 
regarding any actual, suspected or alleged fraud, the external auditor can take this into account in the 
external auditor’s identification of risk of material misstatement due to fraud in accordance with 
SLAuS 240.26 
 
Procedures to Determine the Adequacy of Work of the Internal Audit Function (Ref: Para. 23–24) 
A27.  The external auditor’s audit procedures on the body of work of the internal audit function as a whole 
that the external auditor plans to use provide a basis for evaluating the overall quality of the function’s 
work and the objectivity with which it has been performed. 
A28. The procedures the external auditor may perform to evaluate the quality of the work performed and the 
conclusions reached by the internal audit function, in addit ion to reperformance in accordance with 
paragraph 24, include the following: 
 Making inquiries of appropriate individuals within the internal audit function. 
 Observing procedures performed by the internal audit function. 
 Reviewing the internal audit function’s work program and working papers.  
 
A29. The more judgment involved, the higher the assessed risk of material misstatement, the less the internal 
audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures adequately support  the 
objectivity of the internal auditors, or the lower the level of competence of the internal audit function, 
the more audit procedures are needed to be performed by the external auditor on the overall body of 
work of the function to support the decision to use the w ork of the function in obtaining sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence on which to base the audit opinion. 
                                                             
24  SLAuS 200, paragraphs 15 and A20  
25  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph A120  
26  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph A11 in relation to SLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of 
Financial Statements 

<!-- page 202 -->

202A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
A30. For purposes of this SLAuS, reperformance involves the external auditor’s independent execution of 
procedures to validate the conclusions reache d by the internal audit function. This objective may be 
accomplished by examining items already examined by the internal audit function or, where it is not 
possible to do so, the same objective may also be accomplished by examining sufficient other similar items 
not actually examined by the internal audit function. Reperformance provides more persuasive evidence 
regarding the adequacy of the work of the internal audit function compared to other procedures the external 
auditor may perform in paragraph A28. W hile it is not necessary for the external auditor to do 
reperformance in each area of work of the internal audit function that is being used, some reperformance is 
required on the body of work of the internal audit function as a whole that the external auditor plans to use 
in accordance with paragraph 24. The external auditor is more likely to focus reperformance in those areas 
where more judgment was exercised by the internal audit function in planning, performing and evaluating 
the results of the audit procedures and in areas of higher risk of material misstatement. 
Determining Whether, in Which Areas and to What Extent Internal Auditors Can Be Used to Provide 
Direct Assistance  
Determining Whether Internal Auditors Can Be Used to Provide Direct Assistance for Purposes of the Audit 
(Ref: Para. 5, 26–28) 
A31. In jurisdictions where the external auditor is prohibited by law or regulation from using internal 
auditors to provide direct assistance, it is relevant for the group auditors to consider whether the 
prohibition also extends to component auditors and, if so, to address this in the communication to the 
component auditors.27   
A32. As stated in paragraph A7 of this SLAuS, objectivity refers to the ability to perform the proposed work 
without allowing bias, conflict of interest or undue influence of others to override professional 
judgments. In evaluating the existence and significance of threats to the objectivity of an internal 
auditor, the following factors may be relevant: 
 The extent to which the internal  audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and 
procedures support the objectivity of the internal auditors.28 
 Family and personal relationships with an individual working in, or responsible for, the aspect of the 
entity to which the work relates. 
 Association with the division or department in the entity to which the work relates. 
 Significant financial interests in the entity other than remuneration on terms consistent with those 
applicable to other employees at a similar level of seniority. 
Material issued by relevant professional bodies for internal auditors may provide additional useful 
guidance. 
A33. There may also be some circumstances in which the significance of the threats to the objectivity of an 
internal auditor is such that there are no safeguards that could reduce them to an acceptable level. For 
example, because the adequacy of safeguards is influenced by the significance of the work in the context of 
the audit, paragraph 30 (a) and (b) prohibits the use of internal auditors to p rovide direct assistance in 
relation to performing procedures that involve making significant judgments in the audit or that relate to 
higher assessed risks of material misstatement where the judgment required in performing the relevant audit 
procedures or evaluating the audit evidence gathered is more than limited. This would also be the case 
where the work involved creates a self-review threat, which is why internal auditors are prohibited from 
performing procedures in the circumstances described in paragraph 30 (c) and (d).  
                                                             
27  SLAuS 600, paragraph 40(b) 
28  See paragraph A7. 

<!-- page 203 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    203A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
A34. In evaluating the level of competence of an internal auditor, many of the factors in paragraph A8 of this 
SLAuS may also be relevant, applied in the context of individual internal auditors and the work to which 
they may be assigned. 
Determining the Nature and Extent of Work that Can Be Assigned to Internal Auditors Providing Direct 
Assistance (Ref: Para. 29–31)   
A35. Paragraphs A15–A22 of this SLAuS provide relevant guidance in determining the nature and extent of 
work that may be assigned to internal auditors.  
A36. In determining the nature of work that may be assigned to internal auditors, the external auditor is 
careful to limit such work to those areas that would be appropriate to be assigned. Examples of 
activities and tasks that would not be appropriate to use internal auditors to provide direct assistance 
include the following:  
 Discussion of fraud risks. However, the external auditors may make inquiries of internal auditors 
about fraud risks in the organization in accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised).29 
 Determination of unannounced audit procedures as addressed in SLAuS 240. 
A37. Similarly, since in accordance with SLAuS 505 30 the external auditor is required to maintain control 
over external confirmation requests and evaluate  the results of external confirmation procedures, it 
would not be appropriate to assign these responsibilities to internal auditors. However, internal 
auditors may assist in assembling information necessary for the external auditor to resolve exceptions 
in confirmation responses. 
A38. The amount of judgment involved and the risk of material misstatement are also relevant in 
determining the work that may be assigned to internal auditors providing direct assistance. For 
example, in circumstances where the valuation of accounts receivable is assessed as an area of higher 
risk, the external auditor could assign the checking of the accuracy of the aging to an internal auditor 
providing direct assistance. However, because the evaluation of the adequacy of the prov ision based 
on the aging would involve more than limited judgment, it would not be appropriate to assign that 
latter procedure to an internal auditor providing direct assistance.  
A39. Notwithstanding the direction, supervision and review by the external auditor, excessive use of internal 
auditors to provide direct assistance may affect perceptions regarding the independence of the external audit 
engagement. 
 
Using Internal Auditors to Provide Direct Assistance (Ref: Para. 34) 
A40. As individuals in the internal audit function are not independent of the entity as is required of the external 
auditor when expressing an opinion on financial statements, the external auditor’s direction, supervision 
and review of the work performed by internal auditors providing direct assistance will generally be of a 
different nature and more extensive than if members of the engagement team perform the work.  
A41. In directing the internal auditors, the external auditor may, for example, remind the internal auditors to 
bring accounting and auditing issues identified during the audit to the attention of the external auditor. 
In reviewing the work performed by the internal auditors, the external auditor’s considerations include 
whether the evidence obtained is sufficient and approp riate in the circumstances, and that it supports 
the conclusions reached.  
                                                             
29   SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 6(a)  
30  SLAuS 505, External Confirmations, paragraphs 7 and 16 

<!-- page 204 -->

204A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 700 (REVISED) 
FORMING AN OPINION AND REPORTING ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods  
ending on or after 31 March 2018) 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS  ………………..……………………………………..……………..  14 
Effective Date  …………………………………………………………………….………  5 
Objectives  ……………………………………..………………………………………….  6 
Definitions  …………….………………….………………………………………………  7–9 
Requirements 
Forming an Opinion on the Financial Statements  ……..………………………………….  1015 
Form of Opinion  ……………………………….……..……………………………………  1619 
Auditor’s Report  …………..………………………………………………………………  2052 
Supplementary Information Presented with the Financial Statements  ………..….……….  5354 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Qualitative Aspects of the Entity’s Accounting Practices  ……………..…………………  A1A3 
Accounting Policies Appropriately Disclosed  
in the Financial Statements  ………………………………………………………………..  A4 
Information Presented in the Financial Statements Is Relevant, Reliable, 
 Comparable and Understandable ………………………………………..………………..  A5 
Disclosure of the Effect of Material Transactions and Events on the  
Information Conveyed in the Financial Statements  ………………………..…………......  A6 
Evaluating Whether the Financial Statements Achieve Fair Presentation  ……..…….……  A7–A9  
Description of the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework  ………….….…………..  A10A15 
Form of Opinion  …………………………………………….………..…………………...  A16A17 
Auditor’s Report  ……………………………………….…………………………………  A18A77 
Supplementary Information Presented with the Financial Statements  ……….….……….  A78A84 
Appendix: Illustrations of Independent Auditor’s Reports on Financial Statements 
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (S LAuS) 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on 
Financial Statements , should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the 
Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 
 

<!-- page 205 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    205A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to form an opinion on 
the financial statements. It also deals with the form and content of the auditor ’s report issued as a result 
of an audit of financial statements. 
 SLAuS 7011 deals with the auditor’s responsibility to communicate key audit matters in the auditor’s 
report. SLAuS 705 2 (Revised) and SLAuS 706 (Revised) 3 deal with how the form and content of the 
auditor’s report are affected when the auditor expresses a modified opinion or includes an Emphasis of 
Matter paragraph or an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report. Other SLAuSs also contain 
reporting requirements that are applicable when issuing an auditor’s report. 
 This SLAuS applies to an audit of a complete set of general purpose financial statements and is written in 
that context. SLAuS 800 (Revised) 4 deals with special considerations when financial statements are 
prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework. SLAuS 805 ( Revised)5 deals with special 
considerations relevant to an audit of a single financial statement or of a specific element, account or 
item of a financial statement. This SLAuS also applies to audits for which SLAuS 800 (Revised) or 
SLAuS 805 (Revised) apply .  
 The requirements of this SLAuS are aimed at addressing an appropriate balance between the need for 
consistency and comparability in auditor reporting globally and the need to increase the value of auditor 
reporting by making the information provided in the auditor’s report more relevant to users. This SLAuS 
promotes consistency in the auditor ’s report, but recognizes the need for flexibility to accommodate 
particular circumstances of individual jurisdictions. Consistency in the auditor ’s report, when th e audit 
has been conducted in accordance with SLAuSs, promotes credibility in the global marketplace by 
making more readily identifiable those audits that have been conducted in accordance with globally 
recognized standards. It also helps to promote the us er’s understanding and to identify unusual 
circumstances when they occur.  
 
Effective Date 
 This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after 31 March 2018.  
 
Objectives 
 The objectives of the auditor are: 
(a) To form an o pinion on the financial statements based on an evaluation of the conclusions drawn 
from the audit evidence obtained; and 
(b) To express clearly that opinion through a written report.  
                                                             
1  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report  
2  SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report  
3  SLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report  
4  SLAuS 800 (Revised), Special Considerations —Audits of Financi al Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose 
Frameworks 
5  SLAuS 805 (Revised), Special Considerations —Audits of Single Financial Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts or 
Items of a Financial Statement 

<!-- page 206 -->

206A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Definitions 
 For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below: 
(a) General purpose financial statements – Financial statements prepared in accordance with a general 
purpose framework. 
(b) General purpose framework – A financial reporting framework designed to meet the common 
financial information needs of a wide range of users. The financial reporting framework may be a 
fair presentation framework or a compliance framework. 
 
The term “fair presentation framework” is used to refer to a financial reporting framework that 
requires compliance with the requirements of the framework and: 
(i)  Acknowledges explicitly or implicitly that, to achieve fair presentation of the financial 
statements, it may be necessary for management to provide disclosures beyond those 
specifically required by the framework; or 
(ii)  Acknowledges explicitly that it may be necessary for management to depart from a requirement 
of the framework to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements. Such departures are 
expected to be necessary only in extremely rare circumstances. 
The term “compliance framework” is used to refer to a financial reporting framework that requires 
compliance with the requirements of the framework, but does not contain the acknowledgements in 
(i) or (ii) above.6 
(c) Unmodified opinion – The opinion expressed by the auditor when the auditor concludes that the 
financial statements are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable financial 
reporting framework.7  
8. Reference to “financial statements” in this SLAuS means “a complete set of genera l purpose financial 
statements.”8 The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework determine the 
presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, and what constitutes a complete set of 
financial statements. 
9. Reference to “Sri Lanka Accounting Standards ” in this SLAuS means the Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka, and reference to “Sri Lanka 
Public Sector Accounting Standards” means the Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standards issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. 
Requirements 
Forming an Opinion on the Financial Statements 
10. The auditor shall form an opinion on whether the financial statements are prepared, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.9,10 
                                                             
6  SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards, paragraph 13(a) 
7  Paragraphs 25 –26 deal with the phrases used to express this opinion in the case of a fair presentation framework and a 
compliance framework respectively. 
8  SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(f) sets out the content of financial statements.  
9  SLAuS 200, paragraph 11 
10  Paragraphs 25–26 deal with the phrases used to express this opinion in the case of a fair presentation framework and a   
 compliance framework respectively. 

<!-- page 207 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    207A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
11. In order to form that opinion, the auditor shall conclude as to whether the auditor has obtained reasonable 
 assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
 due to fraud or error. That conclusion shall take into account: 
(a) The auditor’s conclusion, in accordance with SLAuS 330, whether sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence has been obtained;11  
(b) The auditor’s conclusion, in accordance with SLAuS 450, whether uncorrected misstatements are 
material, individually or in aggregate;12 and 
(c) The evaluations required by paragraphs 12–15. 
12. The auditor shall evaluate whether the financial statements are prepared, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework. This evaluation shall 
include consideration of the qualitative aspects of the entity ’s accounting practices, including indicators 
of possible bias in management’s judgments. (Ref: Para. A1–A3)  
13. In particular, the auditor shall evaluate whether, in view of the requirements of the applicable financial 
reporting framework: 
(a) The financial statements appropriately disclose the significant accounting policies selected and 
applied. In making this evaluation, the auditor shall consider the relevance of the accounting policies 
to the entity, and whether they have been presented in an understandable manner; (Ref: Para. A4) 
(b) The accounting policies selected and applied are consistent with the ap plicable financial reporting 
framework and are appropriate;  
(c) The accounting estimates made by management are reasonable;  
(d) The information presented in the financial statements is relevant, reliable, comparable, and 
understandable. In making this evaluation, the auditor shall consider whether: 
 The information that should have been included has been included, and whether such 
information is appropriately classified, aggregated or disaggregated, and characterized.  
 The overall presentation of the financial sta tements has been undermined by including 
information that is not relevant or that obscures a proper understanding of the matters disclosed. 
(Ref: Para. A5) 
(e) The financial statements provide adequate disclosures to enable the intended users to understand 
the effect of material transactions and events on the information conveyed in the financial 
statements; and (Ref: Para. A6) 
(f) The terminology used in the financial statements, including the title of each financial statement, is 
appropriate. 
14. When the financi al statements are prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the 
evaluation required by paragraphs 12–13 shall also include whether the financial statements achieve fair 
presentation. The auditor’s evaluation as to whether the financial sta tements achieve fair presentation 
shall include consideration of: (Ref: Para A7–A9) 
(a) The overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements; and 
                                                             
11  SLAuS 330, The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks , paragraph 26 
12  SLAuS 450, Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit , paragraph 11 

<!-- page 208 -->

208A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(b) Whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a mann er that 
achieves fair presentation. 
15. The auditor shall evaluate whether the financial statements adequately refer to or describe the applicable 
financial reporting framework. (Ref: Para. A10–A15)  
Form of Opinion 
16. The auditor shall express an unmodified opinion when the auditor concludes that the financial statements 
 are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting 
 framework. 
17. If the auditor: 
(a)  Concludes that, based on the audit evidence obtained, the financial statements as a whole are not free 
from material misstatement; or 
(b) Is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to conclude that the financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, 
the auditor shall modify the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised). 
 
18. If financial statements prepared in accordance with the requirements of a fair presentation framework do 
not achieve fair presentation, the auditor shall discuss the matter with management and, depending on the 
requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and how the matter is resolved, shall 
determine whether it is necessary to modify the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 
705 (Revised). (Ref: Para. A16) 
19. When the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a compliance framework, the auditor is 
not required to evaluate whether the financial statements achieve fair presentation. However, if in 
extremely rare circumstances the au ditor concludes that such financial statements are misleading, the 
auditor shall discuss the matter with management and, depending on how it is resolved, shall determine 
whether, and how, to communicate it in the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A17) 
 
Auditor’s Report  
20. The auditor’s report shall be in writing. (Ref: Para. A18–A19) 
 
Auditor’s Report for Audits Conducted in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards  
Title 
21. The auditor’s report shall have a title that clearly indicates that it is the re port of an independent auditor. 
 (Ref: Para. A20)  
 
Addressee 
22. The auditor’s report shall be addressed, as appropriate, based on the circumstances of the engagement. 
(Ref: Para. A21) 
 
Auditor’s Opinion 
23. The first section of the auditor ’s report shall  include the auditor ’s opinion, and shall have the heading 
“Opinion.”  
24. The Opinion section of the auditor’s report shall also:  

<!-- page 209 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    209A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(a) Identify the entity whose financial statements have been audited;  
(b) State that the financial statements have been audited;  
(c)  Identify the title of each statement comprising the financial statements;  
(d) Refer to the notes, including the summary of significant accounting policies; and  
(e) Specify the date of, or period covered by, each financial statement comprising the financial 
statements. (Ref: Para. A22–A23)  
25. When expressing an unmodified opinion on financial statements prepared in accordance with a fair 
presentation framework, the auditor’s opinion shall, unless otherwise required by law or regulation, use 
one of the following phrases, which are regarded as being equivalent:  
(a) In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, […] 
in accordance with [the applicable financial reporting framework]; or  
(b) In our opinion, the accompanying financ ial statements give a true and fair view of […] in 
accordance with [the applicable financial reporting framework]. (Ref: Para. A24–A31) 
26. When expressing an unmodified opinion on financial statements prepared in accordance with a 
compliance framework, the au ditor’s opinion shall be that the accompanying financial statements are 
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with [the applicable financial reporting framework]. 
(Ref: Para. A26–A31)  
27. If the reference to the applicable financial reporting fram ework in the auditor ’s opinion is not to Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or Sri Lanka 
Public Sector Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, the 
auditor’s opinion shall identify the jurisdiction of origin of the framework.   
 
Basis for Opinion  
28. The auditor’s report shall include a section, directly following the Opinion section, with the heading 
“Basis for Opinion”, that: (Ref: Para. A32) 
(a) States that the audit was conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards; (Ref: Para. 
A33)  
(b) Refers to the section of the auditor ’s report that describes the auditor ’s responsibilities under the 
SLAuSs; 
(c) Includes a statement that the auditor is independent of the  entity in accordance with the relevant 
ethical requirements relating to the audit, and has fulfilled the auditor ’s other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The statement shall identify the jurisdiction 
of origin of the relevan t ethical requirements or refer to the Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code); and (Ref: Para. A34–A39)  
(d) States whether the auditor believes that the audit evidence the auditor has obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for the auditor’s opinion. 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 210 -->

210A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Going Concern  
29. Where applicable, the auditor shall report in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).13 
 
Key Audit Matters  
30. For audits of complete sets of general purpose financial statements of listed entities, the audito r shall 
communicate key audit matters in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 701.  
31. When the auditor is otherwise required by law or regulation or decides to communicate key audit matters 
in the auditor’s report, the auditor shall do so in accordance with SLAuS 701. (Ref: Para. A40–A42) 
 
Other Information 
32. Where applicable, the auditor shall report in accordance with SLAuS 720 (Revised).14 
 
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements 
33. The auditor ’s report shall include a section with a heading “Responsibilities of Management for the 
Financial Statements.” The auditor’s report shall use the term that is appropriate in the context of the 
legal framework in the particular jurisdiction and need not refer specifically to “management”. In some 
jurisdictions, the appropriate reference may be to those charged with governance. (Ref: Para. A44) 
 
34. This section of the auditor’s report shall describe management’s responsibility for: (Ref: Para. A45–A48)  
(a) Preparing the financial statements in accordance with the app licable financial reporting framework, 
and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of 
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and 
(b) Assessing the enti ty’s ability to continue as a going concern 15 and whether the use of the going 
concern basis of accounting is appropriate as well as disclosing, if applicable, matters relating to 
going concern. The explanation of management’s responsibility for this assess ment shall include a 
description of when the use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate. (Ref: Para. A48) 
35. This section of the auditor’s report shall also identify those responsible for the oversight of the financial 
reporting process, when  those responsible for such oversight are different from those who fulfill the 
responsibilities described in paragraph 34 above. In this case, the heading of this section shall also refer 
to “Those Charged with Governance ” or such term that is appropriate in the context of the legal 
framework in the particular jurisdiction. (Ref: Para. A49) 
36. When the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the 
description of responsibilities for the financial statements in the audi tor’s report shall refer to “the 
preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements” or “the preparation of financial statements 
that give a true and fair view,” as appropriate in the circumstances. 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
37. The auditor’s report shall include a section with the heading “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Financial Statements.”  
38. This section of the auditor’s report shall: (Ref: Para. A50) 
                                                             
13  SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern, paragraphs 21–23  
14  SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information  
15 SLAuS 570 (Revised), paragraph 2  

<!-- page 211 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    211A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(a) State that the objectives of the auditor are to: 
(i) Obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and  
(ii) Issue an auditor’s report that includes the auditor’s opinion. (Ref: Para. A51) 
(b) State that reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists; 
and 
(c) State that misstatements can arise from fraud or error, and either:  
 
(i) Describe that they are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these financial statements;16 or  
(ii) Provide a definition or description of materiality in accordance with the applicable financial 
reporting framework. (Ref: Para. A53)  
39. The Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of the auditor’s report 
shall further: (Ref: Para. A50) 
(a) State that, as part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, the auditor exercises professional 
judgment and maintains professional skepticism throughout the audit; and  
(b) Describe an audit by stating that the auditor’s responsibilities are:  
(i) To identify and assess the risks of m aterial misstatement of the financial statements, whether 
due to fraud or error; to design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks; and to 
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for the auditor ’s 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than 
for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery , intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
(ii) To obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. In circumstances when the auditor 
also has a responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in 
conjunction with the audit of the financial statements, the auditor shall omit the phrase that 
the auditor’s consideration of internal control is n ot for the purpose of expressing an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  
 
(iii) To evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management.  
(iv) To conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ab ility to 
continue as a going concern. If the auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, the 
                                                             
16  SLAuS 320, Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit, paragraph 2 

<!-- page 212 -->

212A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
auditor is required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequa te, to modify the opinion. The 
auditor’s conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause an entity to cease to continue as a 
going concern. 
(v) When the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, 
to evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
 
(c) When SLAuS 600 17 applies, further describe the auditor’s responsibilities in a group audit 
engagement by stating that:  
(i) The auditor’s responsibilities are to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an 
opinion on the group financial statements; 
(ii) The auditor is responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit; 
and 
(iii) The auditor remains solely responsible for the auditor’s opinion. 
 
40. The Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of the auditor’s report 
also shall: (Ref: Para. A50) 
(a) State that the auditor communicates with tho se charged with governance regarding, among other 
matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that the auditor identifies during the audit;  
(b) For audits of financial statements of listed entities, state that the auditor provides those charged with 
governance with a statement that the auditor has complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence and communicates with them all relationships and ot her matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on the auditor’s independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards; and  
(c) For audits of financial statements of listed entities and any other entities for which key audit matters 
are communicated in ac cordance with SLAuS 701, state that, from the matters communicated with 
those charged with governance, the auditor determines those matters that were of most significance 
in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
The auditor describes these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, the auditor determines that a 
matter should not be communicated i n the auditor’s report because the adverse consequences of 
doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication. (Ref: Para. A53) 
Location of the description of the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of  the financial 
statements 
41. The description of the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements required by 
paragraphs 39–40 shall be included: (Ref: Para. A54) 
                                                             
17  SLAuS 600, Special Considerations —Audits of Group Financial Statements (Includ ing the Work of Component  Auditors)  

<!-- page 213 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    213A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(a) Within the body of the auditor’s report;  
(b) Within an appendix to the audit or’s report, in which case the auditor’s report shall include a 
reference to the location of the appendix; or (Ref: Para. A55–A57) 
(c) By a specific reference within the auditor’s report to the location of such a description on a website 
of an appropriate authority, where law, regulation or Sri Lanka Auditing Standards expressly permit 
the auditor to do so. (Ref: Para. A54, A56–A57) 
42. When the auditor refers to a description of the auditor’s responsibilities on a website of an appropriate 
authority , the auditor shall determine that such description addresses, and is not inconsistent with, the 
requirements in paragraphs 39–40 of this SLAuS. (Ref: Para. A56) 
 
Other Reporting Responsibilities  
43. If the auditor addresses other reporting responsibilities in the auditor ’s report on the financial statements 
that are in addition to the auditor ’s responsibilities under the SLAuSs, these other reporting 
responsibilities shall be addressed in a separate section in the auditor ’s report with a heading titled 
“Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” or otherwise as appropriate to the content of the 
section, unless these other reporting responsibilities address the same topics as those presented under the 
reporting responsibilities required by the SLAuSs in which case the  other reporting responsibilities may 
be presented in the same section as the related report elements required by the SLAuSs. (Ref: Para. A58–
A60) 
44. If other reporting responsibilities are presented in the same section as the related report elements required 
by the SLAuSs, the auditor’s report shall clearly differentiate the other reporting responsibilities from the 
reporting that is required by the SLAuSs. (Ref: Para. A60) 
45. If the auditor ’s report contains a separate section that addresses other reporting res ponsibilities, the 
requirements of paragraphs 21–40 of this SLAuS shall be included under a section with a heading 
“Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements. ” The “Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements” shall follow the “Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements.” (Ref: Para. A60) 
 
CA Sri Lanka Membership Number of the Engagement Partner  
46. The CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner shall be included in the auditor ’s 
report on financial statements of listed entities  unless, in rare circumstances, such disclosure is 
reasonably expected to lead to a significant personal security threat. In the rare circumstances that the 
auditor intends not to include the CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner in the 
auditor’s report, the auditor shall discuss this intention with those charged with governance to inform the 
auditor’s assessment of the likelihood and severity of a significant personal security threat. (Ref: Para. 
A61–A63) 
 
Signature of the Auditor  
47. The auditor’s report shall be signed. (Ref: Para. A64–A65) 
 
Auditor’s Address  
48. The auditor’s report shall name the location in the jurisdiction where the auditor practices. 

<!-- page 214 -->

214A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
Date of the Auditor’s Report 
49. The auditor’s report shall be dated no earlier than the dat e on which the auditor has obtained sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence on which to base the auditor ’s opinion on the financial statements, including 
evidence that: (Ref: Para. A66–A69) 
(i) All the statements and disclosures that comprise the financial statements have been prepared; and 
(ii) Those with the recognized authority have asserted that they have taken responsibility for those 
financial statements. 
 
Auditor’s Report Prescribed by Law or Regulation 
50. If the auditor is required by law or regulation of a speci fic jurisdiction to use a specific layout, or 
wording of the auditor’s report, the auditor’s report shall refer to Sri Lanka Auditing Standards only if the 
auditor’s report includes, at a minimum, each of the following elements: (Ref: Para. A70–A71) 
(a) A title.  
(b) An addressee, as required by the circumstances of the engagement. 
(c) An Opinion section containing an expression of opinion on the financial statements and a 
reference to the applicable financial reporting framework used to prepare the financial statement s 
(including identifying the jurisdiction of origin of the financial reporting framework that is not Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards or Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standards, see paragraph 27).  
(d) An identification of the entity’s financial statements that have been audited. 
(e) A statement that the auditor is independent of the entity in accordance with the relevant ethical 
requirements relating to the audit, and has fulfilled the auditor’s other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requiremen ts. The statement shall identify the jurisdiction of origin of the 
relevant ethical requirements or refer to the CA Sri Lanka Code of Ethics. 
(f) Where applicable, a section that addresses, and is not inconsistent with, the reporting requirements 
in paragraph 22 of SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
(g) Where applicable, a Basis for Qualified (or Adverse) Opinion section that addresses, and is not 
inconsistent with, the reporting requirements in paragraph 23 of SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
(h) Where applicable, a section that includes the  information required by SLAuS 701, or additional 
information about the audit that is prescribed by law or regulation and that addresses, and is not 
inconsistent with, the reporting requirements in that SLAuS.18 (Ref: Para. A72–A75) 
(i) Where applicable, a sect ion that addresses the reporting requirements in paragraph 24 of SLAuS 
720 (Revised). 
(j) A description of management’s responsibilities for the preparation of the financial statements and 
an identification of those responsible for the oversight of the financi al reporting process that 
addresses, and is not inconsistent with, the requirements in paragraphs 33–36. 
(k) A reference to Sri Lanka Auditing Standards and the law or regulation, and a description of the 
auditor’s responsibilities for an audit of the financia l statements that addresses, and is not 
inconsistent with, the requirements in paragraphs 37–40. (Ref: Para. A50–A53)  
                                                             
18  SLAuS 701, paragraphs 11–16 

<!-- page 215 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    215A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(l) For audits of complete sets of general purpose financial statements of listed entities, the CA Sri 
Lanka membership number of the engagem ent partner unless, in rare circumstances, such 
disclosure is reasonably expected to lead to a significant personal security threat.  
(m) The auditor’s signature.  
(n) The auditor’s address.  
(o) k. The date of the auditor’s report. 
 
Auditor’s Report for Audits Conducted in Accordance with Both Auditing Standards of a 
Specific Jurisdiction and Sri Lanka Auditing Standards 
51. An auditor may be required to conduct an audit in accordance with the auditing standards of a specific 
jurisdiction, and has additionally complied wi th the SLAuSs in the conduct of the audit. If this is the 
case, the auditor’s report may refer to Sri Lanka Auditing Standards in addition to the Standards of the 
specific jurisdiction, but the auditor shall do so only if: (Ref: Para. A76–A77) 
(a) There is no conflict between the requirements in the Auditing Standards of the specific 
jurisdiction and those in SLAuSs that would lead the auditor (i) to form a different opinion, or 
(ii) not to include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph or Other Matter paragraph that,  in the 
particular circumstances, is required by SLAuSs; and 
(b) (ii) The auditor’s report includes, at a minimum, each of the elements set out in paragraphs 
50(a)–(o) when the auditor uses the layout or wording specified by the Auditing Standards of a 
specific jurisdiction. However, reference to “law or regulation” in paragraph 50(k) shall be read 
as reference to the Auditing Standards of the specific jurisdiction. The auditor’s report shall 
thereby identify such Auditing Standards of the specific jurisdiction. 
52. When the auditor’s report refers to both the Sri Lanka Auditing Standards and Auditing Standards of the 
specific jurisdiction, the auditor’s report shall identify the jurisdiction of origin of the Auditing Standards 
of the specific jurisdiction. 
 
Supplementary Information Presented with the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 
A78–A84) 
53. If supplementary information that is not required by the applicable financial reporting framework is 
presented with the audited financial statements, the auditor shall evaluate  whether, in the auditor ’s 
professional judgment, supplementary information is nevertheless an integral part of the financial 
statements due to its nature or how it is presented . When it is an integral part of the financial statements, 
the supplementary information shall be covered by the auditor’s opinion. 
If supplementary information that is not required by the applicable financial reporting framework is not 
considered an integral part of the audited financial statements, t he auditor shall evaluate whethe r such 
supplementary information is presented in a way that sufficiently and clearly differentiates it from the 
audited financial statements. If this is not the case, then the auditor shall ask management to change how 
the unaudited supplementary information is presented. If management refuses to do so, the auditor shall 
identify the unaudited supplementary information and explain in the auditor ’s report that such 
supplementary information has not been audited. 

<!-- page 216 -->

216A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Application and Other Explanatory Material  
Qualitative Aspects of the Entity’s Accounting Practices (Ref: Para. 12) 
A1. Management makes a number of judgments about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements. 
A2. SLAuS 260 (Revised) contains a discussion of the qualitative aspects of acc ounting practices. 19 In 
considering the qualitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices, the auditor may become aware of 
possible bias in management’s judgments. The auditor may conclude that the cumulative effect of a lack 
of neutrality , together with the effect of uncorrected misstatements, causes the financial statements as a 
whole to be materially misstated. Indicators of a lack of neutrality that may affect the auditor’s evaluation 
of whether the financial statements as a whole are materially misstated include the following: 
 The selective correction of misstatements brought to management’s attention during the audit (e.g., 
correcting misstatements with the effect of increasing reported earnings, but not correcting 
misstatements that have the effect of decreasing reported earnings). 
 Possible management bias in the making of accounting estimates. 
A3. SLAuS 540 addresses possible management bias in making accounting estimates.20 Indicators of possible 
management bias do not constitute misstatements f or purposes of drawing conclusions on the 
reasonableness of individual accounting estimates. They may, however, affect the auditor’s evaluation of 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. 
 
Accounting Policies Appropriately Disclosed in the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 
13(a)) 
A4. In evaluating whether the financial statements appropriately disclose the significant accounting policies 
selected and applied, the auditor’s consideration includes matters such as: 
 Whether all disclosures related to the significant accounting policies that are required to be 
included by the applicable financial reporting framework have been disclosed; 
 Whether the information about the significant accounting policies that has been disclosed  is 
relevant and therefore reflects how the recognition, measurement and presentation criteria in the 
applicable financial reporting framework have been applied to classes of transactions, account 
balances and disclosures in the financial statements in the  particular circumstances of the entity’s 
operations and its environment; and  
 The clarity with which the significant accounting policies have been presented. 
 
Information Presented in the Financial Statements Is Relevant, Reliable, Comparable 
and Understandable (Ref: Para. 13(d)) 
A5. Evaluating the understandability of the financial statements includes consideration of such matters as 
whether:  
 The information in the financial statements is presented in a clear and concise manner. 
                                                             
19  SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance , Appendix 2 
20  SLAuS 540, Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Di sclosures, paragraph 
21 

<!-- page 217 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    217A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 The placement of significant disclosures gives appropriate prominence to them (e.g., when there is 
perceived value of entity -specific information to users), and whether the disclosures are 
appropriately cross-referenced in a manner that would not give rise to significant challenge s for 
users in identifying necessary information. 
 
Disclosures of the Effect of Material Transactions and Events on the Information 
Conveyed in the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 13(e)) 
A6. It is common for financial statements prepared in accordance wit h a general purpose framework to 
present an entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. Evaluating whether, in view 
of the applicable financial reporting framework, the financial statements provide adequate disclosures to 
enable the intended users to understand the effect of material transactions and events on the entity ’s 
financial position, financial performance and cash flows includes consideration of such matters as: 
 The extent to which the information in the financial statements is relevant and specific to the 
circumstances of the entity; and  
 Whether the disclosures are adequate to assist the intended users to understand:  
o The nature and extent of the entity’s potential assets and liabilities arising from transactions or 
events t hat do not meet the criteria for recognition (or the criteria for derecognition) 
established by the applicable financial reporting framework. 
o The nature and extent of risks of material misstatement arising from transactions and events. 
o The methods used and the assumptions and judgments made, and changes to them, that affect 
amounts presented or otherwise disclosed, including relevant sensitivity analyses. 
 
Evaluating Whether the Financial Statements Achieve Fair Presentation (Ref: Para. 
14) 
A7. Some financi al reporting frameworks acknowledge explicitly or implicitly the concept of fair 
presentation.21 As noted in paragraph 7(b) of this SLAuS, a fair presentation 22 financial reporting 
framework not only requires compliance with the requirements of the framework , but also 
acknowledges explicitly or implicitly that it may be necessary for management to provide disclosures 
beyond those specifically required by the framework.23 
A8. The auditor’s evaluation about whether the financial statements achieve fair presentation, both in respect 
of presentation and disclosure, is a matter of professional judgment. This evaluation takes into account 
such matters as the facts and circumstances of the entity, including changes thereto, based on the 
auditor’s understanding of the entity and the audit evidence obtained during the audit. The evaluation 
                                                             
21  For example, Sri Lanka Accounting Standards note that fair presentation requires the faithful representation of the effects o f 
transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses. 
22  See SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(a) 
23  For example, Sri Lanka Accounting Standards  require an entity to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in Sri Lanka Accounting Standa rds is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance (Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 1, 
Presentation of Financial Statements, paragraph 17(c)). 

<!-- page 218 -->

218A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
also includes consideration, for example, of the disclosures needed to achieve a fair presentation arising 
from matters that could be material (i.e., in general, misstatements are cons idered to be material if they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users taken on the basis of the 
financial statements as a whole), such as the effect of evolving financial reporting requirements or the 
changing economic environment. 
A9. Evaluating whether the financial statements achieve fair presentation may include, for example, 
discussions with management and those charged with governance about their views on why a particular 
presentation was chosen, as well as altern atives that may have been considered. The discussions may 
include, for example: 
 The degree to which the amounts in the financial statements are aggregated or disaggregated, and 
whether the presentation of amounts or disclosures obscures useful information,  or results in 
misleading information. 
 Consistency with appropriate industry practice, or whether any departures are relevant to the 
entity’s circumstances and therefore warranted. 
 
Description of the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework (Ref: Para. 15) 
A10. As explained in SLAuS 200, the preparation of the financial statements by management and, where 
appropriate, those charged with governance requires the inclusion of an adequate description of the 
applicable financial reporting framework in the financial statements.24 That description advises users of 
the financial statements of the framework on which the financial statements are based.  
A11. A description that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a particular applicable 
financial r eporting framework is appropriate only if the financial statements comply with all the 
requirements of that framework that are effective during the period covered by the financial statements. 
A12. A description of the applicable financial reporting framewo rk that contains imprecise qualifying or 
limiting language (e.g., “the financial statements are in substantial compliance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards”) is not an adequate description of that framework as it may mislead users of the 
financial statements. 
 
Reference to More than One Financial Reporting Framework 
A13. In some cases, the financial statements may represent that they are prepared in accordance with two 
financial reporting frameworks (e.g., the national framework and IFRSs). This may be be cause 
management is required, or has chosen, to prepare the financial statements in accordance with both 
frameworks, in which case both are applicable financial reporting frameworks. Such description is 
appropriate only if the financial statements comply w ith each of the frameworks individually . To be 
regarded as being prepared in accordance with both frameworks, the financial statements need to 
comply with both frameworks simultaneously and without any need for reconciling statements. In 
practice, simultaneous compliance is unlikely unless the jurisdiction has adopted the other framework 
(e.g., IFRSs) as its own national framework, or has eliminated all barriers to compliance with it. 
A14. Financial statements that are prepared in accordance with one financ ial reporting framework and that 
contain a note or supplementary statement reconciling the results to those that would be shown under 
                                                             
24  SLAuS 200, paragraphs A4–A5 

<!-- page 219 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    219A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
another framework are not prepared in accordance with that other framework. This is because the 
financial statements do not include all the information in the manner required by that other framework.  
A15. The financial statements may , however, be prepared in accordance with one applicable financial 
reporting framework and, in addition, describe in the notes to the financial statements the extent to 
which the financial statements comply with another framework (e.g., financial statements prepared in 
accordance with the national framework that also describe the extent to which they comply with 
IFRSs). Such description may consti tute supplementary financial information as discussed in 
paragraph 54 and is covered by the auditor ’s opinion if it cannot be clearly differentiated from the 
financial statements. 
 
Form of Opinion  
A16. There may be cases where the financial statements, al though prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of a fair presentation framework, do not achieve fair presentation. Where this is the case, 
it may be possible for management to include additional disclosures in the financial statements beyond 
those specifically required by the framework or, in extremely rare circumstances, to depart from a 
requirement in the framework in order to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements. (Ref: 
Para. 18) 
A17. It will be extremely rare for the auditor to consider financial statements that are prepared in accordance 
with a compliance framework to be misleading if, in accordance with SLAuS 210, the auditor 
determined that the framework is acceptable.25 (Ref: Para. 19) 
 
Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 20) 
A18.   A written report encompasses reports issued in hard copy and those using an electronic medium. 
A19. The Appendix to this SLAuS contains illustrations of auditor ’s reports on financial statements, 
incorporating the elements set out in paragraphs 21–49. With the exception of the Opinion and Basis 
for Opinion sections, this SLAuS does not establish requirements for ordering the elements of the 
auditor’s report. However, this SLAuS requires the use of specific headings, which are intended to 
assist in making audito r’s reports that refer to audits that have been conducted in accordance with 
SLAuSs more recognizable, particularly in situations where the elements of the auditor ’s report are 
presented in an order that differs from the illustrative auditor’s reports in the Appendix to this SLAuS. 
 
Auditor’s Report for Audits Conducted in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards 
Title (Ref: Para. 21) 
A20. A title indicating the report is the report of an independent auditor, for example, “Independent 
Auditor’s Report,” distinguishes the independent auditor’s report from reports issued by others. 
 
Addressee (Ref: Para. 22) 
A21. Law, regulation or the terms of the engagement may specify to whom the auditor ’s report is to be 
addressed in that particular jurisdiction. The a uditor’s report is normally addressed to those for whom 
                                                             
25 SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements , paragraph 6(a) 

<!-- page 220 -->

220A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
the report is prepared, often either to the shareholders or to those charged with governance of the entity 
whose financial statements are being audited. 
Auditor’s Opinion (Ref. Para. 24–26) 
Reference to the financial statements that have been audited 
A22. The auditor ’s report states, for example, that the auditor has audited the financial statements of the 
entity , which comprise [state the title of each financial statement comprising the complete set o f 
financial statements required by the applicable financial reporting framework, specifying the date or 
period covered by each financial statement] and notes to the financial statements, including a summary 
of significant accounting policies.  
A23. When the auditor is aware that the audited financial statements will be included in a document that 
contains other information, such as an annual report, the auditor may consider, if the form of 
presentation allows, identifying the page numbers on which the audit ed financial statements are 
presented. This helps users to identify the financial statements to which the auditor’s report relates. 
 
“Present fairly, in all material respects” or “give a true and fair view” 
A24.  The phrases “present fairly , in all material respects,” and “give a true and fair view ” are regarded as 
being equivalent. Whether the phrase “present fairly , in all material respects,” or the phrase “give a true 
and fair view” is used in any particular jurisdiction is determined by the law or regulation governing the 
audit of financial statements in that jurisdiction, or by generally accepted practice in that jurisdiction. 
Where law or regulation requires the use of different wording, this does not affect the requirement in 
paragraph 14 of this SLAu S for the auditor to evaluate the fair presentation of financial statements 
prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework.  
A25. When the auditor expresses an unmodified opinion, it is not appropriate to use phrases such as “with 
the foregoing explanation” or “subject to” in relation to the opinion, as these suggest a conditional 
opinion or a weakening or modification of opinion. 
 
Description of the financial statements and the matters they present 
A26.  The auditor ’s opinion covers the complete  set of financial statements as defined by the applicable 
financial reporting framework. For example, in the case of many general purpose frameworks, the 
financial statements may include: a statement of financial position, a statement of comprehensive 
income, a statement of changes in equity , a statement of cash flows, and related notes, which ordinarily 
comprise a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. In some 
jurisdictions, additional information may also be consider ed to be an integral part of the financial 
statements.  
A27. In the case of financial statements prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the 
auditor’s opinion states that the financial statements present fairly , in all material respects, or give a 
true and fair view of, the matters that the financial statements are designed to present. For example, in 
the case of financial statements prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards , these 
matters are the financial position of th e entity as at the end of the period and the entity ’s financial 
performance and cash flows for the period then ended . Consequently , the […] in paragraph 25 and 
elsewhere in this SLAuS is intended to be replaced by the words in italics in the preceding sent ence 
when the applicable financial reporting framework is Sri Lanka Accounting Standards or, in the case of 

<!-- page 221 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    221A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
other applicable financial reporting frameworks, be replaced with words that describe the matters that 
the financial statements are designed to present. 
 
Description of the applicable financial reporting framework and how it may affect the 
auditor’s opinion 
A28.  The identification of the applicable financial reporting framework in the auditor’s opinion is intended to 
advise users of the auditor ’s report of the context in which the auditor ’s opinion is expressed; it is not 
intended to limit the evaluation required in paragraph 14. The applicable financial reporting framework 
is identified in such terms as: 
“… in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards” or 
“… in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Jurisdiction X …”  
A29. When the applicable financial reporting framework encompasses financial reporting standards and legal 
or regulatory requirements, the framework is identifi ed in such terms as “… in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards and the requirements of Jurisdiction X Corporations Act. ” SLAuS 210 
deals with circumstances where there are conflicts between the financial reporting standards and the 
legislative or regulatory requirements.26  
A30. As indicated in paragraph A13, the financial statements may be prepared in accordance with two 
financial reporting frameworks, which are therefore both applicable financial reporting frameworks. 
Accordingly , each framework is considered separately when forming the auditor ’s opinion on the 
financial statements, and the auditor ’s opinion in accordance with paragraphs 25–27 refers to both 
frameworks as follows: 
(a) If the financial statements comply with each of the frameworks indi vidually, two opinions are 
expressed: that is, that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with one of the 
applicable financial reporting frameworks (e.g., the national framework) and an opinion that the 
financial statements are prepared in ac cordance with the other applicable financial reporting 
framework (e.g., IFRSs). These opinions may be expressed separately or in a single sentence (e.g., 
the financial statements are presented fairly, in all material respects […], in accordance with 
accounting principles generally accepted in Jurisdiction X and with IFRSs).  
(b) If the financial statements comply with one of the frameworks but fail to comply with the other 
framework, an unmodified opinion can be given that the financial statements are prepared in 
accordance with the one framework (e.g., the national framework) but a modified opinion given 
with regard to the other framework (e.g., IFRSs) in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised). 
A31. As indicated in paragraph A15, the financial statements may repre sent compliance with the applicable 
financial reporting framework and, in addition, disclose the extent of compliance with another financial 
reporting framework. Such supplementary information is covered by the auditor ’s opinion if it cannot 
be clearly dif ferentiated from the financial statements (see paragraphs 53–54 and related application 
material in paragraphs A78–A84). Accordingly , 
                                                             
26  SLAuS 210, paragraph 18 

<!-- page 222 -->

222A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(a) If the disclosure as to the compliance with the other framework is misleading, a modified opinion 
is expressed in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised). 
(b) If the disclosure is not misleading, but the auditor judges it to be of such importance that it is 
fundamental to the users ’ understanding of the financial statements, an Emphasis of Matter 
paragraph is added in accordance with SLAuS 706 (Revised), drawing attention to the disclosure. 
 
Basis for Opinion (Ref: Para. 28) 
A32. The Basis for Opinion section provides important context about the auditor ’s opinion. Accordingly , this 
SLAuS requires the Basis for Opinion section to direc tly follow the Opinion section in the auditor ’s 
report. 
A33. The reference to the standards used conveys to the users of the auditor ’s report that the audit has been 
conducted in accordance with established standards. 
 
Relevant ethical requirements (Ref: Para. 28(c)) 
A34. The identification of the jurisdiction of origin of relevant ethical requirements increases transparency 
about those requirements relating to the particular audit engagement. SLAuS 200 explains that relevant 
ethical requirements ordinarily comprise Parts A and B of the CA Sri Lanka Code related to an audit of 
financial statements together with national requirements that are more restrictive. 27 When the relevant 
ethical requirements include those of the CA Sri Lanka Code, the statement may also make reference to 
the CA Sri Lanka Code. If the CA Sri Lanka Code constitutes all of the ethical requirements relevant to 
the audit, the statement need not identify a jurisdiction of origin.  
A35. In some jurisdictions, relevant ethical requirements may  exist in several different sources, such as the 
ethical code(s) and additional rules and requirements within law and regulation. When the independence 
and other relevant ethical requirements are contained in a limited number of sources, the auditor may 
choose to name the relevant source(s) (e.g., the name of the code, rule or regulation applicable in the 
jurisdiction), or may refer to a term that is commonly understood and that appropriately summarizes 
those sources (e.g., independence requirements for audits of private entities in Jurisdiction X).  
A36. Law or regulation, Sri Lanka Auditing Standards or the terms of an audit engagement may require the 
auditor to provide in the auditor ’s report more specific information about the sources of the relevant 
ethical requirements, including those pertaining to independence, that applied to the audit of the 
financial statements.  
A37. In determining the appropriate amount of information to include in the auditor ’s report when there are 
multiple sources of relevant ethical requirements relating to the audit of the financial statements, an 
important consideration is balancing transparency against the risk of obscuring other useful 
information in the auditor’s report. 
Considerations specific to group audits 
A38. In gro up audits when there are multiple sources of relevant ethical requirements, including those 
pertaining to independence, the reference in the auditor ’s report to the jurisdiction ordinarily relates to 
the relevant ethical requirements that are applicable to the group engagement team. This is because, in a 
                                                             
27  SLAuS 200, paragraph A16 

<!-- page 223 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    223A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
group audit, component auditors are also subject to ethical requirements that are relevant to the group 
audit.28 
A39. The SLAuSs do not establish specific independence or ethical requirements for auditors, i ncluding 
component auditors, and thus do not extend, or otherwise override, the independence requirements of 
the CA Sri Lanka Code or other ethical requirements to which the group engagement team is subject, 
nor do the SLAuSs require that the component aud itor in all cases to be subject to the same specific 
independence requirements that are applicable to the group engagement team. As a result, relevant ethical 
requirements, including those pertaining to independence, in a group audit situation may be compl ex. 
SLAuS 600 29 provides guidance for auditors in performing work on the financial information of a 
component for a group audit, including those situations where the component auditor does not meet the 
independence requirements that are relevant to the group audit.  
 
Key Audit Matters (Ref: Para. 31) 
A40. Law or regulation may require communication of key audit matters for audits of entities other than 
listed entities, for example, entities characterized in such law or regulation as public interest entities.  
A41. The auditor may also decide to communicate key audit matters for other entities, including those that 
may be of significant public interest, for example because they have a large number and wide range of 
stakeholders and considering the nature and size of the business. Examples of such entities may include 
financial institutions (such as banks, insurance companies, and pension funds), and other entities such as 
charities. 
A42. SLAuS 210 requires the auditor to agree the terms of the audit engagement with management and 
those charged with governance, as appropriate, and explains that the roles of management and those 
charged with governance in agreeing the terms of the audit engagement for the entity depend on the 
governance arrangements of the entity and relevant law or regulation. 30 SLAuS 210 also requires the 
audit engagement letter or other suitable form of written agreement to include reference to the expected 
form and content of any reports to be issued by the auditor. 31 When the auditor is not othe rwise 
required to communicate key audit matters, SLAuS 21032 explains that it may be helpful for the auditor 
to make reference in the terms of the audit engagement to the possibility of communicating key audit 
matters in the auditor ’s report and, in certain  jurisdictions, it may be necessary for the auditor to 
include a reference to such possibility in order to retain the ability to do so. 
 
Considerations specific to public sector entities  
A43. Listed entities are not common in the public sector. However, p ublic sector entities may be significant 
due to size, complexity or public interest aspects. In such cases, an auditor of a public sector entity 
may be required by law or regulation or may otherwise decide to communicate key audit matters in the 
auditor’s report. 
                                                             
28  SLAuS 600, paragraph A37 
29  SLAuS 600, paragraphs 19–20 
30  SLAuS 210, paragraphs 9 and A22 
31  SLAuS 210, paragraph 10 
32  SLAuS 210, paragraph A25 

<!-- page 224 -->

224A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 33–34) 
A44. SLAuS 200 explains the premise, relating to the responsibilities of management and, where appropriate, 
those charged with governance, on which an audit in accordance with SLAuSs  is conducted. 33 
Management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance, accept responsibility for the 
preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework, 
including, where relevant, their fair p resentation. Management also accepts responsibility for such 
internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The description of manage ment’s 
responsibilities in the auditor’s report includes reference to both responsibilities as it helps to explain to 
users the premise on which an audit is conducted. SLAuS 260 (Revised) uses the term those charged 
with governance to describe the person(s ) or organization(s) with responsibility for overseeing the 
entity , and provides a discussion about the diversity of governance structures across jurisdictions and by 
entity . 
A45. There may be circumstances when it is appropriate for the auditor to add to the descriptions of the 
responsibilities of management and those charged with governance in paragraphs 34–35 to reflect 
additional responsibilities that are relevant to the preparation of the financial statements in the context of 
the particular jurisdiction or the nature of the entity .  
A46. SLAuS 210 requires the auditor to agree management’s responsibilities in an engagement letter or other 
suitable form of written agreement. 34 SLAuS 210 provides some flexibility in doing so, by explaining 
that, if law or  regulation prescribes the responsibilities of management and, where appropriate, those 
charged with governance, in relation to financial reporting, the auditor may determine that the law or 
regulation includes responsibilities that, in the auditor ’s judgment, are equivalent in effect to those set 
out in SLAuS 210. For such responsibilities that are equivalent, the auditor may use the wording of the 
law or regulation to describe them in the engagement letter or other suitable form of written agreement. 
In such cases, this wording may also be used in the auditor ’s report to describe the responsibilities as 
required by paragraph 34(a) of this SLAuS. In other circumstances, including where the auditor decides 
not to use the wording of law or regulation as incor porated in the engagement letter, the wording in 
paragraph 34(a) of this SLAuS is used. In addition to including the description of management ’s 
responsibilities in the auditor ’s report as required by paragraph 34, the auditor may refer to a more 
detailed description of these responsibilities by including a reference to where such information may be 
obtained (e.g., in the annual report of the entity or a website of an appropriate authority).  
A47. In some jurisdictions, law or regulation prescribing management’s responsibilities may specifically refer 
to a responsibility for the adequacy of accounting books and records, or accounting system. As books, 
records and systems are an integral part of internal control (as defined in SLAuS 315 (Revised) 35), the 
descriptions in SLAuS 210 and in paragraph 34 do not make specific reference to them.  
A48. The Appendix to this SLAuS provides illustrations of how the requirement in paragraph 34(b) would 
be applied when Sri Lanka Accounting Standards is the applicable financial reporting framework. If an 
applicable financial reporting framework other than Sri Lanka Accounting Standards is used, the 
                                                             
33  SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(j) 
34  SLAuS 210, paragraph 6(b)(i)–(ii) 
35  SLAuS 315 (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its 
Environment, paragraph 4(c) 

<!-- page 225 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    225A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
illustrative statements featured in the Appendix to this SLAuS may need to be adapted to reflect the 
application of the other financial reporting framework in the circumstances. 
 
Oversight of the financial reporting process (Ref: Para. 35) 
A49. When some, but not all, of the individuals involved in the oversight of the financial reporting process 
are also involved in preparing the f inancial statements, the description as required by paragraph 35 of 
this SLAuS may need to be modified to appropriately reflect the particular circumstances of the entity . 
When individuals responsible for the oversight of the financial reporting process ar e the same as those 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements, no reference to oversight responsibilities is 
required. 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 37–
40)  
A50. The description of the auditor’s responsibilities as required by paragraphs 37–40 of this SLAuS may be 
tailored to reflect the specific nature of the entity , for example, when the auditor ’s report addresses 
consolidated financial statements. Illustration 2 in the Appendix to this SLAuS includes an example of 
how this may be done. 
 
Objectives of the auditor (Ref: Para. 38(a)) 
A51. The auditor’s report explains that the objectives of the auditor are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are  free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor ’s report that includes the auditor ’s opinion. These are in contrast to 
management’s responsibilities for the preparation for the financial statements. 
 
Description of materiality (Ref: Para. 38(c)) 
A52. The Appendix to this SLAuS provides illustrations of how the requirement in paragraph 38(c), to 
provide a description of materiality , would be applied when Sri Lanka Accounting Standards is the 
applicable financial reporting framework. If an applicable financial reporting framework other than Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards is used, the illustrative statements presented in the Appendix to this 
SLAuS may need to be adapted to reflect the application of the other financial r eporting framework in 
the circumstances. 
Auditor’s responsibilities relating to SLAuS 701 (Ref: Para. 40(c)) 
A53. The auditor may also consider it useful to provide additional information in the description of the 
auditor’s responsibilities beyond what is required by paragraph 40(c). For example, the auditor may 
make reference to the requirement in paragraph 9 of SLAuS 701 to determine the matters that required 
significant auditor attention in performing the audit, taking into account areas of higher assessed risk of 
material misstatement or significant risks identified in accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised); 
significant auditor judgments relating to areas in the financial statements that involved significant 
management judgment, including accounting estimat es that have been identified as having high 
estimation uncertainty; and the effects on the audit of significant events or transactions that occurred 
during the period. 

<!-- page 226 -->

226A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
Location of the description of the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements (Ref: Para. 41, 50(j)) 
A54. Including the information required by paragraphs 39–40 of this SLAuS in an appendix to the auditor’s 
report or, when law, regulation or Sri Lanka Auditing Standards expressly permit, referring to a website 
of an  appropriate authority containing such information may be a useful way of streamlining the 
content of the auditor ’s report. However, because the description of the auditor ’s responsibilities 
contains information that is necessary to inform users ’ expectations of an audit conducted in 
accordance with SLAuSs, a reference is required to be included in the auditor’s report indicating where 
such information can be accessed. 
Location in an appendix (Ref: Para. 41(b), 50(j)) 
A55. Paragraph 41 permits the auditor to include the statements required by paragraphs 39–40 describing the 
auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements in an appendix to the auditor ’s report, 
provided that appropriate reference is made within the body of the auditor’s report to the location of the 
appendix. The following is an illustration of how such a reference to an appendix could be made in the 
auditor’s report: 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements  
Our objectives are to obtain reasona ble assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement when 
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or 
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be ex pected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these financial statements.  
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is included in 
appendix X of this auditor ’s report. This descript ion, which is located at [ indicate page number or 
other specific reference to the location of the description], forms part of our auditor’s report. 
Reference to a website of an appropriate authority (Ref: Para. 41(c), 42) 
A56. Paragraph 41 explains that the auditor may refer to a description of the auditor’s responsibilities located 
on a website of an appropriate authority , only if expressly permitted by law, regulation or Sri Lanka 
Auditing Standards. The information on the website that is incorporated in the auditor’s report by way 
of a specific reference to the website location where such information can be found may describe the 
auditor’s work, or the audit in accordance with SLAuSs more broadly , but it cannot be inconsistent with 
the description require d in paragraphs 39–40 of this SLAuS. This means that the wording of the 
description of the auditor ’s responsibilities on the website may be more detailed, or may address other 
matters relating to an audit of financial statements, provided that such wording  reflects and does not 
contradict the matters addressed in paragraphs 39–40.  
A57. An appropriate authority could be a national auditing standard setter, regulator, or an audit oversight 
body . Such organizations are well -placed to ensure the accuracy , comp leteness and continued 
availability of the standardized information. It would not be appropriate for the auditor to maintain 
such a website. The following is an illustration of how such a reference to a website could be made in 
the auditor’s report: 
 

<!-- page 227 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    227A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements  
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s 
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud o r error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.  
A further description of our responsibilities for th e audit of the financial statements is located at 
[Organization’s] website at: [website address]. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. 
 
Other Reporting Responsibilities (Ref: Para. 43–45) 
A58. In some jurisdictions, the auditor may have additional responsibilities to report on other matters that are 
supplementary to the auditor ’s responsibilities under the SLAuSs. For example, the auditor may be 
asked to report certain matters if they come to the auditor ’s attention during the course of the audit of 
the financial statements. Alternatively , the auditor may be asked to perform and report on additional 
specified procedures, or to express an opinion on specific matters, such as the adequacy of accounting 
books and records, internal control over f inancial reporting or other information. Auditing standards in 
the specific jurisdiction often provide guidance on the auditor ’s responsibilities with respect to specific 
additional reporting responsibilities in that jurisdiction.  
A59. In some cases, the relevant law or regulation may require or permit the auditor to report on these other 
responsibilities as part of their auditor ’s report on the financial statements. In other cases, the auditor 
may be required or permitted to report on them in a separate report.  
A60. Paragraphs 43–45 of this SLAuS permit combined presentation of other reporting responsibilities and 
the auditor ’s responsibilities under the SLAuSs only when they address the same topics and the 
wording of the auditor ’s report clearly differen tiates the other reporting responsibilities from those 
under the SLAuSs. Such clear differentiation may make it necessary for the auditor ’s report to refer to 
the source of the other reporting responsibilities and to state that such responsibilities are beyond those 
required under the SLAuSs. Otherwise, other reporting responsibilities are required to be addressed in 
a separate section in the auditor ’s report with a heading “Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements,” or otherwise as appropriate to the content of the section. In such cases, paragraph 44 
requires the auditor to include reporting responsibilities under the SLAuSs under a heading titled 
“Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements.” 
 
CA Sri Lanka Membership Number of the Engagement Partner (Ref: Para. 46) 
A61. SLSQC 136 requires that the firm establish policies and procedures to provide reasonable assurance that 
engagements are performed in accordance with professional standards and applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements. Notwit hstanding these SLSQC 1 requirements, stating the CA Sri Lanka 
                                                             
36  SLSQC 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and 
Related Services Engagements, paragraph 32 

<!-- page 228 -->

228A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
membership number of the engagement partner in the auditor ’s report is intended to provide further 
transparency to the users of the auditor’s report on financial statements of a listed entity .  
A62. Law, regulation or Sri Lanka Auditing Standards may require that the auditor’s report include the CA Sri 
Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for audit other than those of financial 
statements of listed entities. The auditor may also be required by law, regulation or Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards, or may decide to include additional information beyond the CA Sri Lanka membership 
number of the engagement partner in the auditor’s report to further identify the engagement partner, for 
example, the engagement partner ’s practicing certificate number that is relevant to the jurisdiction 
where the auditor practices.  
A63. In rare circumstances, the auditor may identify information or be subject to experiences that indicate 
the likeliho od of a personal security threat that, if the identity of the engagement partner is made 
public, may result in physical harm to the engagement partner, other engagement team members or 
other closely related individuals. However, such a threat does not include, for example, threats of legal 
liability or legal, regulatory or professional sanctions. Discussions with those charged with governance 
about circumstances that may result in physical harm may provide additional information about the 
likelihood or severity of the significant personal security threat. Law, regulation or Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards may establish further requirements that are relevant to determining whether the disclosure of 
the CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner may be omitted. 
 
Signature of the Auditor (Ref: Para. 47) 
A64. The auditor’s signature is either in the name of the audit firm, the personal name of the auditor or both, 
as appropriate for the particular jurisdiction. In addition to the auditor ’s signature, i n certain 
jurisdictions, the auditor may be required to declare in the auditor ’s report the auditor ’s professional 
accountancy designation or the fact that the auditor or firm, as appropriate, has been recognized by the 
appropriate licensing authority in that jurisdiction.  
A65. In some cases, law or regulation may allow for the use of electronic signatures in the auditor’s report. 
Date of the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 49) 
A66. The date of the auditor ’s report informs the user of the auditor ’s report that the auditor has considered 
the effect of events and transactions of which the auditor became aware and that occurred up to that 
date. The auditor ’s responsibility for events and transactions after the date of the auditor ’s report is 
addressed in SLAuS 560.37  
A67. Since the auditor’s opinion is provided on the financial statements and the financial statements are the 
responsibility of management, the auditor is not in a position to conclude that sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence has been obtained until evidence is obtained that all the statements and disclosures that 
comprise the financial statements have been prepared and management has accepted responsibility for 
them. 
A68. In some jurisdictions, law or regulation identifies the individuals or bodies (e.g., the directors) that are 
responsible for concluding that all the statements and disclosures that comprise the financial statements 
have been prepared, and specifies the necessary approval process. In such cases, evidence is obtained of 
that approval before dating the report on the financial statements. In other jurisdictions, however, the 
approval process is not prescribed in law or regulation. In such cases, the procedures the entity follows 
                                                             
37  SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events , paragraphs 10–17 

<!-- page 229 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    229A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
in preparing and finalizing its financial statements in view of its management and governance structures 
are considered in order to identify the individuals or body with the authority to conclude that all the 
statements that comprise the financial statements, including the related notes, have been prepared. In 
some cases, law or regulation identifies the point in the financial statement reporting process at which 
the audit is expected to be complete.  
A69. In some jurisdictions, final approval of the financial statements by shareholders is required before the 
financial statements are issued publicly . In these jurisdictions, final approval by shareholders is not 
necessary for the auditor to conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained. The 
date of approval of the financial statements for purp oses of SLAuSs is the earlier date on which those 
with the recognized authority determine that all the statements and disclosures that comprise the 
financial statements have been prepared and that those with the recognized authority have asserted that 
they have taken responsibility for them. 
 
Auditor’s Report Prescribed by Law or Regulation (Ref: Para. 50) 
A70. SLAuS 200 explains that the auditor may be required to comply with legal or regulatory requirements in 
addition to SLAuSs.38 When the differences between the legal or regulatory requirements and SLAuSs 
relate only to the layout and wording of the auditor’s report, the requirements in paragraph 50(a)–(o) set 
out the minimum elements to be included in the auditor ’s report to enable a reference to the Sri  Lanka 
Auditing Standards. In those circumstances, the requirements in paragraphs 21–49 that are not included 
in paragraph 50(a)–(o) do not need to be applied including, for example, the required ordering of the 
Opinion and Basis for Opinion sections.  
A71. Where specific requirements in a particular jurisdiction do not conflict with SLAuSs, the layout and 
wording required by paragraphs 21–49 of this SLAuS assist users of the auditor ’s report in more 
readily recognizing the auditor’s report as a report of an audit conducted in accordance with SLAuSs. 
 
Information Required by SLAuS 701 (Ref: Para. 50(h)) 
A72. Law or regulation may require the auditor to provide additional information about the audit that was 
performed, which may include information that is consistent with the objectives of SLAuS 701, or may 
prescribe the nature and extent of communication about such matters.  
A73. The SLAuSs do not override law or regulation that governs an audit of financial statements. When 
SLAuS 701 is applicable, reference can only be made to SLAuSs in the auditor’s report if, in applying 
the law or regulation, the section required by paragraph 50(h) of this SLAuS is not inconsistent with 
the reporting requirements in SLAuS 701. In such circumstances, the auditor may need to tailor certain 
aspects of the communication of key audit matters in the auditor ’s report required by SLAuS 701, for 
example by: 
 Modifying the heading “Key Audit Matters”, if law or regulation prescribes a specific heading;  
 Explaining why the information  required by law or regulation is being provided in the auditor’s 
report, for example by making a reference to the relevant law or regulation and describing how 
that information relates to the key audit matters; 
                                                             
38  SLAuS 200, paragraph A57 

<!-- page 230 -->

230A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 Where law or regulation prescribes the natur e and extent of the description, supplementing the 
prescribed information to achieve an overall description of each key audit matter that is consistent 
with the requirement in paragraph 13 of SLAuS 701. 
A74. SLAuS 210 deals with circumstances where law or regulation of the relevant jurisdiction prescribes the 
layout or wording of the auditor ’s report in terms that are significantly different from the requirements 
of SLAuSs, which in particular includes the auditor ’s opinion. In these circumstances, SLAuS 21 0 
requires the auditor to evaluate: 
(a) Whether users might misunderstand the assurance obtained from the audit of the financial 
statements and, if so, 
(b) Whether additional explanation in the auditor’s report can mitigate possible misunderstanding. 
If the audito r concludes that additional explanation in the auditor ’s report cannot mitigate possible 
misunderstanding, SLAuS 210 requires the auditor not to accept the audit engagement, unless required 
by law or regulation to do so. In accordance with SLAuS 210, an au dit conducted in accordance with 
such law or regulation does not comply with SLAuSs. Accordingly , the auditor does not include any 
reference in the auditor ’s report to the audit having been conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Auditing Standards.39 
 
Considerations specific to public sector entities  
A75. Auditors of public sector entities may also have the ability pursuant to law or regulation to report 
publicly on certain matters, either in the auditor ’s report or in a supplementary report, which may 
include information that is consistent with the objectives of SLAuS 701. In such circumstances, the 
auditor may need to tailor certain aspects of the communication of key audit matters in the auditor ’s 
report required by SLAuS 701 or include a reference in the  auditor’s report to a description of the 
matter in the supplementary report 
 
Auditor’s Report for Audits Conducted in Accordance with Both Auditing Standards of a 
Specific Jurisdiction and Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (Ref: Para. 51) 
A76. The auditor may refer in the auditor ’s report to the audit having been conducted in accordance with 
both Sri Lanka Auditing Standards as well as the Auditing Standards of the specific jurisdiction when, 
in addition to complying with the relevant Auditing Standards of the specific jurisdiction, the auditor 
complies with each of the SLAuSs relevant to the audit.40 
A77. A reference to both Sri Lanka Auditing Standards and the Auditing Standards of the specific 
jurisdiction is not appropriate if there is a conflict between the requirements in SLAuSs and those in 
the Auditing Standards of the specific jurisdiction that would lead the auditor to form a different 
opinion or not to include an Emphasis of Matter or Other Matter paragraph that, in the particular 
circumstances, is required by SLAuSs. In such a case, the auditor ’s report refers only to the auditing 
standards (either Sri Lanka Auditing Standards or the Auditing standards of the specific jurisdictions.) 
in accordance with which the auditor’s report has been prepared. 
                                                             
39  SLAuS 210, paragraph 21 
40  SLAuS 200, paragraph A58 

<!-- page 231 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    231A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Supplementary Information Presented with the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 53–54) 
A78. In some circumstances, the entity may be required by law, regulation or standards, or may voluntarily 
choose, to present together with the financial statements supplementary information that is not required 
by the applicable financial reporting framework. For example, supplementary information might be 
presented to enhance a user ’s understanding of the applicable financial reporting framework or to 
provide further explanati on of specific financial statement items. Such information is normally 
presented in either supplementary schedules or as additional notes. 
A79. Paragraph 53 of this SLAuS explains that the auditor ’s opinion covers supplementary information that 
is an integ ral part of the financial statements because of its nature or how it is presented. This 
evaluation is a matter of professional judgment. To illustrate: 
 When the notes to the financial statements include an explanation or the reconciliation of the 
extent to which the financial statements comply with another financial reporting framework, the 
auditor may consider this to be supplementary information that cannot be clearly differentiated 
from the financial statements. The auditor’s opinion would also cover not es or supplementary 
schedules that are cross-referenced from the financial statements.  
 When an additional profit and loss account that discloses specific items of expenditure is disclosed 
as a separate schedule included as an Appendix to the financial sta tements, the auditor may 
consider this to be supplementary information that can be clearly differentiated from the financial 
statements. 
A80. Supplementary information that is covered by the auditor ’s opinion does not need to be specifically 
referred to in the auditor’s report when the reference to the notes in the description of the statements 
that comprise the financial statements in the auditor’s report is sufficient. 
A81. Law or regulation may not require that the supplementary information be audited, a nd management 
may decide to ask the auditor not to include the supplementary information within the scope of the 
audit of the financial statements. 
A82. The auditor’s evaluation whether unaudited supplementary information is presented in a manner that 
could be construed as being covered by the auditor ’s opinion includes, for example, where that 
information is presented in relation to the financial statements and any audited supplementary 
information, and whether it is clearly labeled as “unaudited.” 
A83. Management could change the presentation of unaudited supplementary information that could be 
construed as being covered by the auditor’s opinion, for example, by: 
 Removing any cross -references from the financial statements to unaudited supplementary 
schedules or unaudited notes so that the demarcation between the audited and unaudited 
information is sufficiently clear. 
 Placing the unaudited supplementary information outside of the financial statements or, if that is 
not possible in the circumstances, at a minimum placing the unaudited notes together at the end of 
the required notes to the financial statements and clearly labeling them as unaudited. Unaudited 
notes that are intermingled with the audited notes can be misinterpreted as being audited. 
 

<!-- page 232 -->

232A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
A84. The fact that supplementary information is unaudited does not relieve the auditor of the responsibilities 
described in SLAuS 720 (Revised). 
Illustrations of Independent Auditor’s Reports on Financial Statements 
 Illustration 1 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of a Listed Entity Prepared in Accordance with 
a Fair Presentation Framework. 
 
 Illustration 2 – Auditor’s Report on the financial statements o f a listed entity and its Consolidated 
Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with a Fair Presentation Framework 
 
 Illustration 3 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of an  Entity Other  than  a  Listed  Entity  
Prepared  in  Accordance  with  a  Fair Presentation Framework. (Where reference is made to material 
that is located on a web site of an appropriate authority)  
 
 Illustration 4 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of an Entity Other than a Listed Entity and Its 
Consolidated Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with a Fair Presentation Framework. (Where 
reference is made to material that is located on a web site of an appropriate authority) 
 Illustration 5 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of an Entity Other than a Listed Entity Prepared 
in Accordance with a General Purpose Compliance Framework 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 233 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    233A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Illustration 1 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of a Listed Entity Prepared in 
Accordance with a Fair Presentation Framework 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed: 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statemen ts of a listed entity using a fair presentation 
framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for 
the financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., “clean”) opinion is appropriate based on the 
audit evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by 
CA Sri Lanka.  
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material 
uncertainty does not exist related to events or condition s that may cast significant doubt 
on the entity ’s ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 
(Revised).  
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information p rior to the date of the auditor ’s 
report and has not yet identified a material misstatement of the other information.  
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities required under local law. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements1 
Opinion  
 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement of 
financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair  view of (or present fairly, in all  
material respects) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and of its financial 
performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
 
                                                             
1  The sub -title “Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title 
“Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicab le. 

<!-- page 234 -->

234A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Basis for Opinion 
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) 2 and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
 
Key Audit Matters  
 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit 
of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the co ntext of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.  
 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701.] 
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as “Information Other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon”]  
 
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised).] 
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the 
Financial Statements3 
 
Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,4 and for such internal control as management determines is 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.  
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assess ing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements  
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assu rance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,  and to issue an auditor ’s report that includes our 
                                                             
2  In the event, other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority, reference should be made to suc h 
regulation. 
 
3  Throughout these illustrative auditor’s reports, the terms management and those charged with governance ma y need to be replaced 
by another term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.  
4  Throughout these illustrative auditor’s reports, the terms management and those charged with governance may need to be replac ed 
by another term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.  

<!-- page 235 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    235A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarante e that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 
Paragraph 41(b) of this SLAuS explains that the shaded material below can be located in an Appendix to the 
auditor’s report. Paragraph 41(c) explains that when law, regulation or Sri Lanka Auditing Standards 
expressly permit, reference can be made to a website of an appropriate authority that contains the description 
of the auditor’s responsibilities, rather than including this material in the auditor’s report, provided that the 
description on the website addresses, and is not inconsistent with, the description of the auditor’s 
responsibilities below. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:  
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery , intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an  opinion on the effectiveness of 
the Company’s internal control.5 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management. 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that 
may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncert ainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.  
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.  
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with ethical requirements 
in accordance with the Code of Ethics regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards. 
 
From the matters communicated with those charged with go vernance, we determine those matters that were 
of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes  public 
                                                             
5  This sentence would be modified, as appropriate, in circumstances when the auditor also has a responsibility to issue an opin ion 
on the effectiveness of internal control in conjunction with the audit of the financial statements.  

<!-- page 236 -->

236A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be 
communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.  
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  
 
As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we have obtained all the information and 
explanations that were required for the audit and, as far as appears from our examination, proper accounting records 
have been kept by the Company. 
 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing this independent 
auditor’s report is [number]. 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit Firm Address] 
 
[Date] 
 
Illustration 2 – Auditor’s Report on the financial statements of a listed entity and its Consolidated 
Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with a Fair Presentation Framework 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed: 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity and its consolidated 
financial statements using a fair presentation framework. The audit is a group audit of an 
entity with subsidiaries (i.e., SLAuS 600 applies). 
 The consolidated and the entity’s financial statements are prepared by management of the 
entity in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for 
the consolidated and the entity’s financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., “clean”) opinion is appropriate based on the 
audit evidence obtained. 
 The Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka comprises all of the relevant ethical requirements 
that apply to the audit.  
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty 
does not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doub t on the entity’s 
ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor's report 
and has not identified a material misstatement of the other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the consolidated and the entity’s financial statements differ 
from those responsible for the preparation of the consolidated and the entity ’s financial 
statements.  
 In addition to the audit of the consolidated and the entity’s financial statements, the auditor has 
other reporting responsibilities required under local law. 
 
 

<!-- page 237 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    237A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements6 
Opinion  
 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (“the Company”) and the consolidated financial 
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”), w hich comprise the statement of financial 
position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in 
equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a 
summary of significant accounting policies.  
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of the Company and the Group give a true and fair 
view of (or present fairly, in all material respects)  the financial position of the Company and the Group as at 
December 31, 20X1, and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
 
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our resp onsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code o f Ethics) 7, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
 
Key Audit Matters  
 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit 
of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in  forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.  
 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701.] 
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as “Information Other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon”]  
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised).] 
                                                             
6  The sub -title “Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title 
“Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirem ents” is not applicable. 
7  In the event, other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority, reference should be made to suc h 
regulation. 

<!-- page 238 -->

238A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements8 
 
Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,9 and for such internal control as management determines is 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.  
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing , as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so. 
 
Those charged with governance a re responsible for overseeing the Company’s and the Group’s financial 
reporting process.  
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements  
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a w hole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,  and to issue an auditor ’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 
 
Paragraph 41(b) of this SLAuS explains that the shaded material below can be located in an Appendix to the 
auditor’s report. Paragraph 41(c) explains that when law, regulation or Sri Lanka Auditing Standards 
expressly permit, reference can be made to a website of an appropriate authority that contains the description 
of the auditor ’s responsibilities, rather than including this material in the auditor ’s report, provided that the 
description on the website addresse s, and is not inconsistent with, the description of the auditor ’s 
responsibilities below. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:  
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinio n. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery , intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of 
the Company and the  Group’s internal control.10 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management.  
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
                                                             
8  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the parti cular jurisdiction 
9 Where management’s responsibility is for the preparation of financial statements that give a fair presentation, this may read : 
“Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements in accordance w ith Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards, and for such ...”  
10  This sentence would be modified, as appropriate, in circumstances when the auditor also has a responsibility to issue an opin ion 
on the effectiveness of internal control in conjunction with the audi t of the financial statements.  

<!-- page 239 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    239A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
on the au dit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that 
may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw a ttention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the un derlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.  
 Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidate d financial statements. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible 
for our audit opinion.  
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.  
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with ethical requirements 
in accordance with the Code of Ethics regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.  
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were 
of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be 
communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 
 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  
 
As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we have obtained all the information and 
explanations that were required for the audit and, as far as appears from our examination, proper accounting records 
have been kept by the Company. 
 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing this independent 
auditor’s report is [number].  
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit Firm Address]  
 
[Date] 
 
 
 

<!-- page 240 -->

240A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
Illustration 3 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of an Entity Other than a Listed Entity 
Prepared in Accordance with a Fair Presentation Framework  
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed: 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using a 
fair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 does not 
apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., “clean”) opinion is appropriate based on the 
audit evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by 
CA Sri Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does 
not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 The auditor is not required, and has otherwise not decided, to communicate key audit matters in 
accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor's report and 
has not identified a material misstatement of the other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements. 
 The auditor elects to refer to the description of the auditor’s responsibility included on a website 
of an appropriate authority. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities required under local law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 241 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    241A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements11 
 
Opinion  
 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement of 
financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
In our opinion, the accompanying fina ncial statements give a true and fair view of  (or present fairly, in all 
material respects) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and of its financial 
performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
 
Basis for Opinion  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financia l 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical 
requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics)12 that are relevant to our audit of 
the financial statements, and we have fulfill ed our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.  
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as “ Information Other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon”]  
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised).] 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements13 
 
Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, 14 and for such internal control as management  determines 
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.  
 
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
                                                             
11  The sub-title “Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title “Report 
on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.  
12  In the event other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority reference should be made to such 
regulation. 
13  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction  
14  Where management’s responsibility  is for the preparation of financial statements that give a fair presentation, this may read: 
“Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards, and for such ...”  

<!-- page 242 -->

242A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.  
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements  
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the fin ancial statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,  and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted i n 
accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.  
 
A further description of the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located at Sri 
Lanka Accounting and Auditing website at: www.slaasc.com/auditingstandards/auditorsresponsibility. This 
description forms part of our auditor’s report. 
 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
 
As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we have obtained all the information and 
explanations that were required for the audit and, as far as appears from our examination, proper accounting records 
have been kept by the Company. 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit Firm Address]  
 
[Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 243 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    243A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Illustration 4 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of an Entity Other than a Listed Entity 
and Its Consolidated Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with a Fair Presentation 
Framework  
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed: 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity and its 
consolidated financial statements using a fair presentation framework. The audi t is a group 
audit of an entity with subsidiaries (i.e., SLAuS 600 applies). 
 The consolidated and the entity’s financial statements are prepared by management of the entity 
in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
consolidated and the entity’s financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., “clean”) opinion is appropriate based on the audit 
evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by 
CA Sri Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does 
not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 The auditor is not required, and has otherwise not decided, to communicate key audit matters in 
accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor's report and 
has not identified a material misstatement of the other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the consolidated and the entity ’s financial  statements 
differ from those responsible for the preparation of the consolidated and the entity ’s 
financial statements. 
 The auditor elects to refer to the description of the auditor’s responsibility included on a website 
of an appropriate authority. 
 In addition to the audit of the consolidated and the entity ’s financial statements, the auditor 
has other reporting responsibilities required under local law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 244 -->

244A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements15 
 
Opinion  
 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (“the Company”) and the consolidated financial 
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”), which comprise the st atement of financial 
position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in 
equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a 
summary of significant accounting policies. 
 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of the Company and the Group give a true and fair 
view of (or present fairly, in all material respects) the financial position of the Company and the Group as at 
December 31, 20X1, and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.  
 
Basis for Opinion  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical 
requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics)16 that are relevant to our audit of 
the financial statements, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.  
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as “Information Other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon”]  
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revis ed) – see Illustration 1 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised).] 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements17 
 
Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, 18 and for such internal control as management determines 
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.  
 
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue 
                                                             
15  The sub-title “Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title “Report 
on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.  
16  In the event other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority reference should be made to such 
regulation. 
17  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction  
18  Where management’s responsibility is for the preparation of finan cial statements that give a fair presentation, this may read: 
“Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards, and for such ...”  

<!-- page 245 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    245A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the company’s and Group’s financial reporting 
process. 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements  
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,  and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered mat erial if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.  
A further description of the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the finan cial statements is located at Sri 
Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards website at: 
www.slaasc.com/technical/auditingstandards/auditorsresponsibility. This descripti on forms part of our 
auditor’s report. 
 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
 
As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we have obtained all the information and 
explanations that were required for the audit and, as far as appears from our examination, proper accounting records 
have been kept by the Company. 
 
 [Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit Firm Address]  
 
[Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 246 -->

246A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
Illustration 5 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of an Entity Other than a Listed Entity 
Prepared in Accordance with a General Purpose Compliance Framework  
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed: 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a  listed entity 
required by law or regulation. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 does not 
apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with the 
Financial Reporting Framework (XYZ Law) of Jurisdiction X (that is, a financial reporting 
framework, encompassing law or regulation, designed to meet the common financial 
information needs of a wide range of users, but which is not a fair presentation framework).  
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., “clean”) opinion is appropriate based on the 
audit evidence obtained.  
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by 
CA Sri Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty 
does not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity ’s 
ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 The auditor is not required, and has otherwise not decided, to communicate key audit matters in 
accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor's report 
and has not identified a material misstatement of the other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements. 
 The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under local law. 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
[Appropriate Addressee]  
 
Opinion  
 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the balance 
sheet as at December 31, 2 0X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow 
statement for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant 
accounting policies.  
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statem ents of the Company are prepared, in all material respects, 
in accordance with XYZ Law of Jurisdiction X. 
 
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are fu rther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 

<!-- page 247 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    247A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics)19, and we have fulfilled our other responsibilities in accordance with 
the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. 
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as “Information Othe r than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon”]  
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised).]. 
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged w ith Governance for the 
Financial Statements20 
 
Management is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with XYZ Law of 
Jurisdiction X,21  and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  
 
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as a pplicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.  
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements  
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,  and to issue an auditor ’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a  material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 
 
                                                             
19  In the event other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority reference should be made to such 
regulation 
20  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction  
21  Where management’s responsibility is f or the preparation of financial statements that give true and fair view , this may read: 
“Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards, and for such . ..” 

<!-- page 248 -->

248A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Paragraph 41(b) of this SLAuS explains that the shaded material below can be located in an Appendix to the 
auditor’s report. Paragraph 41(c) explains that when law, regulation or Sri Lanka Auditing Standards 
expressly permit, reference can be made to a website of an appropriate authority that contains the description 
of the auditor ’s responsibilities, rather than including this material in the auditor ’s report, provided that the 
description on the website addresses, and is not inconsi stent with, the description of the auditor ’s 
responsibilities below. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:  
 Identify and assess the risks of mate rial misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not de tecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery , intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
 Obtain an understanding of internal c ontrol relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness 
of the Company’s internal control.22 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting  policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management.  
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report t o the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.  
 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm]  [Audit Firm Address]  
 
[Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                             
22  This sentence would be modified, as appropriate, in circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to issue an opinio n on the 
effectiveness of internal control in conjunction with the audit of the financial statements.  

<!-- page 249 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    249A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 701 
COMMUNICATING KEY AUDIT MATTERS IN THE INDEPENDENT 
AUDITOR’S REPORT 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods  
ending on or after 31 March 2018) 
CONTENTS  
Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS ………………………………………………………………………  15 
Effective Date …………………………………………………………...…………………   6 
Objectives…………………………………………………………………………………  7 
Definition ………………………………………………………………………………….  8 
Requirements 
Determining Key Audit Matters ………………………………………………………….. 9–10  
Communicating Key Audit Matters ……………………………………………………… 1116 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance ………………………………..... 17 
Documentation ……………………………………………………………………………  18 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Scope of this SLAuS ……………………………………………………………………... A1A8 
Determining Key Audit Matters …………………………………………………………. A9A30 
Communicating Key Audit Matters ……………………………………………………... A31A59 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance ………………………………… A60–A63  
Documentation …………………………………………………………………………...  A64 
 
Sri Lanka  Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report, should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent 
Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 
 

<!-- page 250 -->

250A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12     
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to communicate key 1.
audit matters in the auditor’s report. It is intended to address both the auditor’s judgment as to what to 
communicate in the auditor’s report and the form and content of such communication.  
 The purpose of communicating key audit matters is to enhance the communicative value of the auditor’s 2.
report by providing greater transparency about the audit that was performed. Communicating key audit 
matters provides additional information to intended users of the financial statements (―intended users‖) 
to assist the m in understanding those matters that, in the auditor’s professional judgment, were of most 
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period. Communicating key audit 
matters may also assist intended users in understanding the ent ity and areas of significant management 
judgment in the audited financial statements. (Ref: Para. A1–A4) 
 The communication of key audit matters in the auditor’s report may also provide intended users a basis 3.
to further engage with management and those char ged with governance about certain matters relating to 
the entity, the audited financial statements, or the audit that was performed. 
 Communicating key audit matters in the auditor’s report is in the context of the auditor having formed 4.
an opinion on the fi nancial statements as a whole. Communicating key audit matters in the auditor’s 
report is not: 
(a) A substitute for disclosures in the financial statements that the applicable financial reporting 
framework requires management to make, or that are otherwise nec essary to achieve fair 
presentation;  
(b) A substitute for the auditor expressing a modified opinion when required by the circumstances of a 
specific audit engagement in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised);1  
(c) A substitute for reporting in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised)2 when a material uncertainty 
exists relating to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on an entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern; or 
(d) A separate opinion on individual matters. (Ref: Para. A5–A8) 
 This SLAuS applies to audits of complete sets of general purpose financial statements of listed entities 5.
and circumstances when the auditor otherwise decides to communicate key audit matters in the auditor’s 
report. This SLAuS also applies when the auditor is required by law o r regulation to communicate key 
audit matters in the auditor’s report. 3 However, SLAuS 705 (Revised) prohibits the auditor from 
communicating key audit matters when the auditor disclaims an opinion on the financial statements, 
unless such reporting is required by law or regulation.4 
                                                           
1  SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report 
2  SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern, paragraphs 22–23 
3  SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements, paragraphs 30–31 
4  SLAuS 705 (Revised), paragraph 29 

<!-- page 251 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    251A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Effective Date 
 This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after 31 March 2018. 6.
Objectives 
 The objectives of the auditor are to determine key audit matters and, having formed an opinion on  the 7.
financial statements, communicate those matters by describing them in the auditor’s report.  
Definition 
 For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following term has the meaning attributed below: 8.
Key audit matters —Those matters that, in the auditor’s professional  judgment, were of most 
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period. Key audit matters are selected 
from matters communicated with those charged with governance. 
Requirements 
Determining Key Audit Matters  
 The auditor shall determine, from the matters communicated with those charged with governance, those 9.
matters that required significant auditor attention in performing the audit. In making this determination, 
the auditor shall take into account the following: (Ref: Para. A9–A18) 
(a) Areas of higher assessed risk of material misstatement, or significant risks identified in accordance 
with SLAuS 315 (Revised).5 (Ref: Para. A19–A22) 
(b) Significant auditor judgments relating to areas in the financial statements that involved significant  
management judgment, including accounting estimates that have been identified as having high 
estimation uncertainty. (Ref: Para. A23–A24) 
(c) The effect on the audit of significant events or transactions that occurred during the period. (Ref: 
Para. A25–A26) 
 The auditor shall determine which of the matters determined in accordance with paragraph 9 were of 10.
most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and therefore are the key 
audit matters. (Ref: Para. A9–A11, A27–A30) 
Communicating Key Audit Matters  
 The auditor shall describe each key audit matter, using an appropriate subheading, in a separate section 11.
of the auditor’s report under the heading ―Key Audit Matters,‖ unless the circumstances in paragraphs 
14 or 15 apply. The introductory language in this section of the auditor’s report shall state that:  
(a) Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditor’s professional judgment, were of most 
significance in the audit of the financial statements [of the current period]; and 
(b) These matters were addressed in the context of the audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in 
forming the auditor’s opinion thereon, and the auditor does not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters. (Ref: Para. A31–A33) 
                                                           
5  SLAuS 315 (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its 
Environment  

<!-- page 252 -->

252A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12     
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Key Audit Matters Not a Substitute for Expressing a Modified Opinion 
 The auditor shall not communicate a matter in the Key Audit Matters section of the auditor’s report 12.
when the auditor would be required to modify the opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised) as a 
result of the matter. (Ref: Para. A5) 
Descriptions of Individual Key Audit Matters 
 The description of each key audit matter in the Key Audit Matters section of the auditor’s report shall 13.
include a reference to the related disclosure(s), if any, in the finan cial statements and shall address: (Ref: 
Para. A34–A41) 
(a) Why the matter was considered to be one of most significance in the audit and therefore 
determined to be a key audit matter; and (Ref: Para. A42–A45) 
(b) How the matter was addressed in the audit. (Ref: Para. A46–A51) 
Circumstances in Which a Matter Determined to Be a Key Audit Matter Is Not Communicated in the Auditor’ s 
Report 
 The auditor shall describe each key audit matter in the auditor’s report unless: (Ref: Para. A53 –A56) 14.
(a) Law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter; or (Ref: Para. A52) 
(b) In extremely rare circumstances, the auditor determines that the matter should not be 
communicated in the auditor’s report because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. This shall 
not apply if the entity has publicly disclosed information about the matter. 
Interaction between Descriptions of Key Audit Matters and Other Elements Required to Be Included in the 
Auditor’ s Report 
 A matter giving rise to a modified opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised), or a material 15.
uncertainty related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised), are by their nature key audit 
matters. However, in such circumstances, these matters shall not be described in the Key Audit Matters 
section of the auditor’s report and the requirements in paragraphs 13 –14 do not apply. Rather, th e 
auditor shall:  
(a) Report on these matter(s) in accordance with the applicable SLAuS(s); and  
(b) Include a reference to the Basis for Qualified (Adverse) Opinion or the Material Uncertainty 
Related to Going Concern section(s) in the Key Audit Matters section. (Ref: Para. A6–A7) 
Form and Content of the Key Audit Matters Section in Other Circumstances  
 If the auditor determines, depending on the facts and circumstances of the entity and the audit, that there 16.
are no key audit matters to communicate or that the onl y key audit matters communicated are those 
matters addressed by paragraph 15, the auditor shall include a statement to this effect in a separate 
section of the auditor’s report under the heading ―Key Audit Matters.‖ (Ref: Para. A57 –A59) 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance 
 The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance: 17.

<!-- page 253 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    253A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(a) Those matters the auditor has determined to be the key audit matters; or 
(b) If applicable, depending on the facts and circumstances of the entity and the audit, th e auditor’s 
determination that there are no key audit matters to communicate in the auditor’s report. (Ref: 
Para. A60–A63) 
Documentation 
 The auditor shall include in the audit documentation:6 (Ref: Para. A64) 18.
(a) The matters that required significant auditor a ttention as determined in accordance with paragraph 
9, and the rationale for the auditor’s determination as to whether or not each of these matters is a 
key audit matter in accordance with paragraph 10; 
(b) Where applicable, the rationale for the auditor’s det ermination that there are no key audit matters 
to communicate in the auditor’s report or that the only key audit matters to communicate are those 
matters addressed by paragraph 15; and  
(c) Where applicable, the rationale for the auditor’s determination not to  communicate in the auditor’s 
report a matter determined to be a key audit matter. 
*** 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Scope of this SLAuS (Ref: Para. 2) 
A1. Significance can be described as the relative importance of a matter, taken in context. The  significance 
of a matter is judged by the auditor in the context in which it is being considered. Significance can be 
considered in the context of quantitative and qualitative factors, such as relative magnitude, the nature 
and effect on the subject matter and the expressed interests of intended users or recipients. This involves 
an objective analysis of the facts and circumstances, including the nature and extent of communication 
with those charged with governance. 
A2. Users of financial statements have expre ssed an interest in those matters about which the auditor had the 
most robust dialogue with those charged with governance as part of the two -way communication 
required by SLAuS 260 (Revised) 7 and have called for additional transparency about those 
communications. For example, users have expressed particular interest in understanding significant 
judgments made by the auditor in forming the opinion on the financial statements as a whole, because 
they are often related to the areas of significant management ju dgment in preparing the financial 
statements. 
A3. Requiring auditors to communicate key audit matters in the auditor’s report may also enhance 
communications between the auditor and those charged with governance about those matters, and may 
increase attention by management and those charged with governance to the disclosures in the financial 
statements to which reference is made in the auditor’s report. 
A4. SLAuS 3208 explains that it is reasonable for the auditor to assume that users of the financial statements:  
                                                           
6  SLAuS 230, Audit Documentation, paragraphs 8–11 and A6  
7  SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance 
8  SLAuS 320, Materiality in Planning and Performing the Audit, paragraph 4 

<!-- page 254 -->

254A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12     
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(a) Have a reasonable knowledge of business and economic activities and accounting and a 
willingness to study the information in the financial statements with reasonable diligence;  
(b) Understand that the financial statements are prepared, presented and audited to  levels of 
materiality; 
(c) Recognize the uncertainties inherent in the measurement of amounts based on the use of estimates, 
judgment and the consideration of future events; and  
(d) Make reasonable economic decisions on the basis of the information in the financ ial statements. 
Because the auditor’s report accompanies the audited financial statements, the users of the auditor’s 
report are considered to be the same as the intended users of the financial statements.  
Relationship between Key Audit Matters, the Auditor’ s Opinion and Other Elements of the Auditor’ s Report 
(Ref: Para. 4, 12, 15) 
A5. SLAuS 700 (Revised) establishes requirements and provides guidance on forming an opinion on the 
financial statements.9 Communicating key audit matters is not a substitute for disclosures in the financial 
statements that the applicable financial reporting framework requires management to make, or that are 
otherwise necessary to achieve fair presentation. SLAuS 705 (Revised) addresses circumstances in 
which the auditor conclud es that there is a material misstatement relating to the appropriateness or 
adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements.10 
A6. When the auditor expresses a qualified or adverse opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised), 
presenting the description o f a matter giving rise to a modified opinion in the Basis for Qualified 
(Adverse) Opinion section helps to promote intended users’ understanding and to identify such 
circumstances when they occur. Separating the communication of this matter from other key audit 
matters described in the Key Audit Matters section therefore gives it the appropriate prominence in the 
auditor’s report (see paragraph 15). The Appendix in SLAuS 705 (Revised) includes illustrative 
examples of how the introductory language in the Ke y Audit Matters section is affected when the 
auditor expresses a qualified or adverse opinion and other key audit matters are communicated in the 
auditor’s report. Paragraph A58 of this SLAuS illustrates how the Key Audit Matters section is 
presented when the auditor has determined that there are no other key audit matters to be communicated 
in the auditor’s report beyond matters addressed in the Basis for Qualified (Adverse) Opinion section or 
Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section of the auditor’s report. 
A7. When the auditor expresses a qualified or adverse opinion, communicating other key audit matters 
would still be relevant to enhancing intended users’ understanding of the audit, and therefore the 
requirements to determine key audit matters apply. However, as an adverse opinion is expressed in 
circumstances when the auditor has concluded that misstatements, individually or in the aggregate, are 
both material and pervasive to the financial statements:11 
(a) Depending on the significance of the matt er(s) giving rise to an adverse opinion, the auditor may 
determine that no other matters are key audit matters. In such circumstances, the requirement in 
paragraph 15 applies (see paragraph A58). 
                                                           
9  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraphs 10–15 and A1–A15  
10  See paragraph A7 of SLAuS 705 (Revised).  
11  SLAuS 705 (Revised), paragraph 8 

<!-- page 255 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    255A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(b) If one or more matters other than the matter(s) giving rise to an adverse opinion are determined to 
be key audit matters, it is particularly important that the descriptions of such other key audit 
matters do not imply that the financial statements as a whole are more credible in relation to those 
matters than would  be appropriate in the circumstances, in view of the adverse opinion (see 
paragraph A47).  
A8. SLAuS 706 (Revised) 12 establishes mechanisms for auditors of financial statements of all entities to 
include additional communication in the auditor’s report through the use of Emphasis of Matter 
paragraphs and Other Matter paragraphs when the auditor considers it necessary to do so. In such cases, 
these paragraphs are presented separately from the Key Audit Matters section in the auditor’s report. 
When a matter has be en determined to be a key audit matter, the use of such paragraphs is not a 
substitute for the description of the individual key audit matter in accordance with paragraph 13. 13 
SLAuS 706 (Revised) provides further guidance on the relationship between key audit matters and 
Emphasis of Matter paragraphs in accordance with that SLAuS.14  
Determining Key Audit Matters (Ref: Para. 9–10) 
A9. The auditor’s decision -making process in determining k ey audit matters is designed to select a smaller 
number of matters from the matters communicated with those charged with governance, based on the 
auditor’s judgment about which matters were of most significance in the audit of the financial 
statements of the current period. 
A10. The auditor’s determination of key audit matters is limited to those matters of most significance in the 
audit of the financial statements of the current period, even when comparative financial statements are 
presented (i.e., even when t he auditor’s opinion refers to each period for which financial statements are 
presented).15 
A11. Notwithstanding that the auditor’s determination of key audit matters is for the audit of the financial 
statements of the current period and this SLAuS does not require the auditor to update key audit matters 
included in the prior period’s auditor’s report, it may nevertheless be useful for the auditor to consider 
whether a matter that was a key audit matter in the audit of the financial statements of the prior period  
continues to be a key audit matter in the audit of the financial statements of the current period.  
Matters that Required Significant Auditor Attention (Ref: Para. 9) 
A12. The concept of significant auditor attention recognizes that an audit is risk -based and f ocuses on 
identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, designing and 
performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for the auditor’s opinion. For a particular account balance, class of 
transactions or disclosure, the higher an assessed risk of material misstatement at the assertion level, the more 
judgment is often involved in planning and performing the audit procedures and evaluating the results thereof. 
In designing further audit procedures, t he auditor is required to obtain more persuasive audit evidence the 
higher the auditor’s assessment of risk.16 When obtaining more persuasive audit evidence because of a 
                                                           
12  SLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report 
13  See paragraphs 8(b) and 10(b) of SLAuS 706 (Revised). 
14  SLAuS 706 (Revised), paragraphs A1–A3  
15  See SLAuS 710, Comparative Information—Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements. 
16  SLAuS 330, The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks, paragraph 7(b)  

<!-- page 256 -->

256A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12     
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
higher assessment of risk, the auditor may increase the quantity of the evidence, or obtain evidence that 
is more relevant or reliable, for example, by placing more emphasis on obtaining third party evidence or 
by obtaining corroborating evidence from a number of independent sources.17  
A13. Accordingly, matters that pose challenges to the auditor in obtaining sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence or pose challenges to the auditor in forming an opinion on the financial statements may be 
particularly relevant in the auditor’s determination of key audit matters.  
A14. Areas of significant auditor attention often relate to areas of complexity and significant management 
judgment in the financial statements, and therefore often involve difficult or complex auditor judgments. 
In turn, t his often affects the auditor’s overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources and extent of 
audit effort in relation to such matters. These effects may include, for example, the extent of 
involvement of senior personnel on the audit engagement or the  involvement of an auditor’s expert or 
individuals with expertise in a specialized area of accounting or auditing, whether engaged or employed 
by the firm to address these areas.  
A15. Various SLAuSs require specific communications with those charged with governance and others that 
may relate to areas of significant auditor attention. For example: 
 SLAuS 260 (Revised) requires the auditor to communicate significant difficulties, if any, 
encountered during the audit with those charged with governance. 18 The SLAuSs acknowledge 
potential difficulties in relation to, for example: 
o Related party transactions, 19 in particular limitations on the auditor’s ability to obtain audit 
evidence that all other aspects of a related party transaction (other than price) are equiv alent 
to those of a similar arm’s length transaction. 
o Limitations on the group audit, for example, where the group engagement team’s access to 
information may have been restricted.20  
 SLAuS 220 establishes requirements for the engagement partner in relation  to undertaking 
appropriate consultation on difficult or contentious matters. 21 For example, the auditor may have 
consulted with others within the firm or outside the firm on a significant technical matter, which 
may be an indicator that it is a key audit m atter. The engagement partner is also required to 
discuss, among other things, significant matters arising during the audit engagement with the 
engagement quality control reviewer.22 
Considerations in Determining Those Matters that Required Significant Auditor Attention (Ref: Para. 9) 
A16. The auditor may develop a preliminary view at the planning stage about matters that are likely to be 
areas of significant auditor attention in the audit and therefore may be key audit matters. The auditor 
may communicate this w ith those charged with governance when discussing the planned scope and 
                                                           
17  SLAuS 330, paragraph A19 
18  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraphs 16(b) and A21 
19  SLAuS 550, Related Parties, paragraph A42 
20  SLAuS 600, Special Considerations —Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors) , 
paragraph 49(d) 
21  SLAuS 220, Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements, paragraph 18  
22  SLAuS 220, paragraph 19  

<!-- page 257 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    257A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
timing of the audit in accordance with SLAuS 260 (Revised). However, the auditor’s determination of 
key audit matters is based on the results of the audit or evidence obtained throughout the audit.  
A17. Paragraph 9 includes specific required considerations in the auditor’s determination of those matters that 
required significant auditor attention. These considerations focus on the nature of matters communicated 
with those charged with governance that are often linked to matters disclosed in the financial statements, 
and are intended to reflect areas of th e audit of the financial statements that may be of particular interest 
to intended users. The fact that these considerations are required is not intended to imply that matters 
related to them are always key audit matters; rather, matters related to such sp ecific considerations are 
key audit matters only if they are determined to be of most significance in the audit in accordance with 
paragraph 10. As the considerations may be interrelated (e.g., matters relating to the circumstances 
described in paragraphs 9(b)-(c) may also be identified as significant risks), the applicability of more 
than one of the considerations to a particular matter communicated with those charged with governance 
may increase the likelihood of the auditor identifying that matter as a key audit matter. 
A18. In addition to matters that relate to the specific required considerations in paragraph 9, there may be 
other matters communicated with those charged with governance that required significant auditor 
attention and that therefore may be det ermined to be key audit matters in accordance with paragraph 10. 
Such matters may include, for example, matters relevant to the audit that was performed that may not be 
required to be disclosed in the financial statements. For example, the implementation o f a new IT system 
(or significant changes to an existing IT system) during the period may be an area of significant auditor 
attention, in particular if such a change had a significant effect on the auditor’s overall audit strategy or 
related to a significant risk (e.g., changes to a system affecting revenue recognition). 
Areas of Higher Assessed Risk of Material Misstatement, or Significant Risks Identified in Accordance with 
SLAuS 315 (Revised) (Ref: Para. 9(a)) 
A19. SLAuS 260 (Revised) requires the auditor to communicate with those charged with governance about 
the significant risks identified by the auditor.23 Paragraph A13 of SLAuS 260 (Revised) explains that the 
auditor may also communicate with those charged with governance about how the auditor plans to 
address areas of higher assessed risks of material misstatement. 
A20. SLAuS 315 (Revised) defines a significant risk as an identified and assessed risk of material 
misstatement that, in the auditor’s judgment, requires special audit consideration. Areas of signifi cant 
management judgment and significant unusual transactions may often be identified as significant risks. 
Significant risks are therefore often areas that require significant auditor attention.  
A21. However, this may not be the case for all significant risks . For example, SLAuS 240 presumes that there 
are risks of fraud in revenue recognition and requires the auditor to treat those assessed risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud as significant risks. 24 In addition, SLAuS 240 indicates that, due to the 
unpredictable way in which management override of controls could occur, it is a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud and thus a significant risk. 25 Depending on their nature, these risks may not 
require significant auditor attention, and therefore would not be considered in the auditor’s 
determination of key audit matters in accordance with paragraph 10.  
                                                           
23  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph 15 
24  SLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements, paragraphs 26–27 
25  SLAuS 240, paragraph 31 

<!-- page 258 -->

258A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12     
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
A22. SLAuS 315 (Revised) explains that the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement at the 
assertion level may change during the course of the audit as additional audit evidence is obtained. 26 
Revision to the auditor’s risk assessment and reevaluation of the planned audit procedures with respect 
to a particular area of the financial statements (i.e., a significant change in the audit approach,  for 
example, if the auditor’s risk assessment was based on an expectation that certain controls were 
operating effectively and the auditor has obtained audit evidence that they were not operating effectively 
throughout the audit period, particularly in an  area with higher assessed risk of material misstatement) 
may result in an area being determined as one requiring significant auditor attention.  
Significant Auditor Judgments Relating to Areas in the Financial Statements that Involved Significant 
Management Judgment, Including Accounting Estimates that Have Been Identified as Having High 
Estimation Uncertainty (Ref: Para. 9(b)) 
A23. SLAuS 260 (Revised) requires the auditor to communicate with those charged with governance the 
auditor’s views about significant qu alitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices, including 
accounting policies, accounting estimates and financial statement disclosures. 27 In many cases, this 
relates to critical accounting estimates and related disclosures, which are likely to be a reas of significant 
auditor attention, and also may be identified as significant risks. 
A24. However, users of the financial statements have highlighted their interest in accounting estimates that 
have been identified as having high estimation uncertainty in ac cordance with SLAuS 54028 that may 
have not been determined to be significant risks. Among other things, such estimates are highly 
dependent on management judgment and are often the most complex areas of the financial statements, 
and may require the involve ment of both a management’s expert and an auditor’s expert. Users have 
also highlighted that accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements (and 
significant changes to those policies) are relevant to their understanding of t he financial statements, 
especially in circumstances where an entity’s practices are not consistent with others in its industry. 
The Effect on the Audit of Significant Events or Transactions that Occurred during the Period (Ref: Para. 9(c)) 
A25. Events or transactions that had a significant effect on the financial statements or the audit may be areas 
of significant auditor attention and may be identified as significant risks. For example, the auditor may 
have had extensive discussions with management and th ose charged with governance at various stages 
throughout the audit about the effect on the financial statements of significant transactions with related 
parties or significant transactions that are outside the normal course of business for the entity or th at 
otherwise appear to be unusual. 29 Management may have made difficult or complex judgments in 
relation to recognition, measurement, presentation or disclosure of such transactions, which may have 
had a significant effect on the auditor’s overall strategy. 
A26. Significant economic, accounting, regulatory, industry, or other developments that affected 
management’s assumptions or judgments may also affect the auditor’s overall approach to the audit and 
result in a matter requiring significant auditor attention. 
                                                           
26  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 31 
27  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph 16(a) 
28  See paragraphs 10 –11 of SLAuS 540, Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related 
Disclosures. 
29  See paragraphs 16(a), 16(c) and A22, and Appendix 2, of SLAuS 260 (Revised). 

<!-- page 259 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    259A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Matters of Most Significance (Ref: Para. 10) 
A27. Matters that required significant auditor attention also may have resulted in significant interaction with 
those charged with governance. The nature and extent of communication about such matters with those 
charged with governance often provides an indication of which matters are of most significance in the 
audit. For example, the auditor may have had more in -depth, frequent or robust interactions with those 
charged with governance on more difficult and complex ma tters, such as the application of significant 
accounting policies that were the subject of significant auditor or management judgment.  
A28. The concept of matters of most significance is applicable in the context of the entity and the audit that 
was performed. As such, the auditor’s determination and communication of key audit matters is intended 
to identify matters specific to the audit and to involve making a judgment about their importance relative 
to other matters in the audit. 
A29. Other considerations that may be relevant to determining the relative significance of a matter 
communicated with those charged with governance and whether such a matter is a key audit matter 
include: 
 The importance of the matter to intended users’ understanding of the financial stateme nts as a 
whole, in particular, its materiality to the financial statements. 
 The nature of the underlying accounting policy relating to the matter or the complexity or 
subjectivity involved in management’s selection of an appropriate policy compared to othe r 
entities within its industry. 
 The nature and materiality, quantitatively or qualitatively, of corrected and accumulated 
uncorrected misstatements due to fraud or error related to the matter, if any.  
 The nature and extent of audit effort needed to address the matter, including: 
o The extent of specialized skill or knowledge needed to apply audit procedures to address the 
matter or evaluate the results of those procedures, if any. 
o The nature of consultations outside the engagement team regarding the matter.  
 The nature and severity of difficulties in applying audit procedures, evaluating the results of those 
procedures, and obtaining relevant and reliable evidence on which to base the auditor’s opinion, in 
particular as the auditor’s judgments become more subjective. 
 The severity of any control deficiencies identified relevant to the matter. 
 Whether the matter involved a number of separate, but related, auditing considerations. For 
example, long -term contracts may involve significant auditor attention with respect to revenue 
recognition, litigation or other contingencies, and may have an effect on other accounting 
estimates. 
A30. Determining which, and how many, of those matters that required significant auditor attention were of 
most significance in the audit of  the financial statements of the current period is a matter of professional 
judgment. The number of key audit matters to be included in the auditor’s report may be affected by the 
size and complexity of the entity, the nature of its business and environmen t, and the facts and 
circumstances of the audit engagement. In general, the greater the number of matters initially 
determined to be key audit matters, the more the auditor may need to reconsider whether each of these 

<!-- page 260 -->

260A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12     
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
matters meets the definition of a key audit matter. Lengthy lists of key audit matters may be contrary to 
the notion of such matters being those of most significance in the audit. 
Communicating Key Audit Matters  
Separate Key Audit Matters Section in the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 11) 
A31. Placing the separate Key Audit Matters section in close proximity to the auditor’s opinion may give 
prominence to such information and acknowledge the perceived value of engagement -specific 
information to intended users. 
A32. The order of presentation of indivi dual matters within the Key Audit Matters section is a matter of 
professional judgment. For example, such information may be organized in order of relative importance, 
based on the auditor’s judgment, or may correspond to the manner in which matters are di sclosed in the 
financial statements. The requirement in paragraph 11 to include subheadings is intended to further 
differentiate the matters. 
A33. When comparative financial information is presented, the introductory language of the Key Audit 
Matters section is tailored to draw attention to the fact that the key audit matters described relate to only 
the audit of the financial statements of the current period, and may include reference to the specific 
period covered by those financial statements (e.g., ―for the year ended December 31, 20X1‖). 
Descriptions of Individual Key Audit Matters (Ref: Para. 13) 
A34. The adequacy of the description of a key audit matter is a matter of professional judgment. The 
description of a key audit matter is intended to provide a succinct  and balanced explanation to enable 
intended users to understand why the matter was one of most significance in the audit and how the 
matter was addressed in the audit. Limiting the use of highly technical auditing terms also helps to 
enable intended users  who do not have a reasonable knowledge of auditing to understand the basis for 
the auditor’s focus on particular matters during the audit. The nature and extent of information provided 
by the auditor is intended to be balanced in the context of the respon sibilities of the respective parties 
(i.e., for the auditor to provide useful information in a concise and understandable form, while not 
inappropriately being the provider of original information about the entity). 
A35. Original information is any information about the entity that has not otherwise been made publicly 
available by the entity (e.g., has not been included in the financial statements or other information 
available at the date of the auditor’s report, or addressed in other oral or written communicat ions by 
management or those charged with governance, such as a preliminary announcement of financial 
information or investor briefings). Such information is the responsibility of the entity’s management and 
those charged with governance. 
A36. It is appropriate for the auditor to seek to avoid the description of a key audit matter inappropriately 
providing original information about the entity. The description of a key audit matter is not usually of 
itself original information about the entity, as it describes th e matter in the context of the audit. 
However, the auditor may consider it necessary to include additional information to explain why the 
matter was considered to be one of most significance in the audit and therefore determined to be a key 
audit matter, and how the matter was addressed in the audit, provided that disclosure of such information 
is not precluded by law or regulation. When such information is determined to be necessary by the 
auditor, the auditor may encourage management or those charged with  governance to disclose additional 
information, rather than the auditor providing original information in the auditor’s report.  

<!-- page 261 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    261A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
A37. Management or those charged with governance may decide to include new or enhanced disclosures in 
the financial statements or els ewhere in the annual report relating to a key audit matter in light of the 
fact that the matter will be communicated in the auditor’s report. Such new or enhanced disclosures, for 
example, may be included to provide more robust information about the sensit ivity of key assumptions 
used in accounting estimates or the entity’s rationale for a particular accounting practice or policy when 
acceptable alternatives exist under the applicable financial reporting framework.  
A38. SLAuS 720 (Revised) defines the term annual report and explains that documents such as a management 
report, management commentary, or operating and financial review or similar reports by those charged 
with governance (e.g., a directors’ report), a Chairman’s statement, corporate governance stateme nt, or 
internal control and risk assessment reports may form part of the annual report. 30 SLAuS 720 (Revised) 
addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating to other information included in the annual report. 
Although the auditor’s opinion on the financi al statements does not cover the other information, the 
auditor may consider this information, as well as other publicly available communications by the entity 
or other credible sources, in formulating the description of a key audit matter.  
A39. Audit document ation prepared during the audit can also be useful to the auditor in formulating the 
description of a key audit matter. For example, written communications, or the auditor’s documentation 
of oral communications, with those charged with governance and other  audit documentation provides a 
useful basis for the auditor’s communication in the auditor’s report. This is because audit documentation 
in accordance with SLAuS 230 is intended to address the significant matters arising during the audit, the 
conclusions reached thereon, and significant professional judgments made in reaching those 
conclusions, and serves as a record of the nature, timing and extent of the audit procedures performed, 
the results of those procedures, and the audit evidence obtained. Such do cumentation may assist the 
auditor in developing a description of key audit matters that explains the significance of the matter and 
also in applying the requirement in paragraph 18. 
Reference to Where the Matter Is Disclosed in the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 13) 
A40. Paragraphs 13(a) -(b) requires the description of each key audit matter to address why the auditor 
considered the matter to be one of most significance in the audit and how the matter was addressed in 
the audit. Accordingly, the description of key audit matters is not a mere reiteration of what is disclosed 
in the financial statements. However, a reference to any related disclosures enables intended users to 
further understand how management has addressed the matter in preparing the financial s tatements. 
A41. In addition to referring to related disclosure(s), the auditor may draw attention to key aspects of them. 
The extent of disclosure by management about specific aspects or factors in relation to how a particular 
matter is affecting the financial statements of the current period may help the auditor in pinpointing 
particular aspects of how the matter was addressed in the audit such that intended users can understand 
why the matter is a key audit matter. For example: 
 When an entity includes robust disclosure about accounting estimates, the auditor may draw 
attention to the disclosure of key assumptions, the disclosure of the range of possible outcomes, 
and other qualitative and quantitative disclosures relating to key sources of estimation uncertainty 
or critical accounting estimates, as part of addressing why the matter was one of most significance 
in the audit and how the matter was addressed in the audit.  
                                                           
30  SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information, paragraphs 12(a) and A1–A3 

<!-- page 262 -->

262A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12     
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 When the auditor concludes in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised) that no material uncertainty 
exists relating to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, the auditor may nevertheless determine that one or more matters 
relating to this conclusion ar ising from the auditor’s work effort under SLAuS 570 (Revised) are 
key audit matters. In such circumstances, the auditor’s description of such key audit matters in the 
auditor’s report could include aspects of the identified events or conditions disclosed in the 
financial statements, such as substantial operating losses, available borrowing facilities and 
possible debt refinancing, or non -compliance with loan agreements, and related mitigating 
factors.31 
Why the Auditor Considered the Matter to Be One of Most Significance in the Audit (Ref: Para. 13(a)) 
A42. The description of a key audit matter in the auditor’s report is intended to provide insight as to why the 
matter was determined to be a key audit matter. Accordingly, the requirements in paragraphs 9 –10 and 
the application material in paragraphs A12 –A29 related to determining key audit matters may also be 
helpful for the auditor in considering how such matters are to be communicated in the auditor’s report. 
For example, explaining the factors that led the audi tor to conclude that a particular matter required 
significant auditor attention and was of most significance in the audit is likely to be of interest to 
intended users. 
A43. The relevance of the information for intended users is a consideration for the auditor in determining 
what to include in the description of a key audit matter. This may include whether the description would 
enable a better understanding of the audit and the auditor’s judgments. 
A44. Relating a matter directly to the specific circumstances of the entity may also help to minimize the 
potential that such descriptions become overly standardized and less useful over time. For example, 
certain matters may be determined as key audit matters in a particular industry across a number of 
entities due to the circumstances of the industry or the underlying complexity in financial reporting. In 
describing why the auditor considered the matter to be one of most significance, it may be useful for the 
auditor to highlight aspects specific to the entity (e.g., circu mstances that affected the underlying 
judgments made in the financial statements of the current period) in order to make the description more 
relevant for intended users. This also may be important in describing a key audit matter that recurs over 
periods. 
A45. The description may also make reference to the principal considerations that led the auditor, in the 
circumstances of the audit, to determine the matter to be one of most significance, for example:  
 Economic conditions that affected the auditor’s ability to obtain audit evidence, for example 
illiquid markets for certain financial instruments. 
 New or emerging accounting policies, for example entity -specific or industry -specific matters on 
which the engagement team consulted within the firm. 
 Changes in the e ntity’s strategy or business model that had a material effect on the financial 
statements.  
                                                           
31  See paragraph A3 of SLAuS 570 (Revised). 

<!-- page 263 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    263A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
How the Matter Was Addressed in the Audit (Ref: Para. 13(b)) 
A46. The amount of detail to be provided in the auditor’s report to describe how a key audit matter was 
addressed in the audit is a matter of professional judgment. In accordance with paragraph 13(b), the 
auditor may describe: 
 Aspects of the auditor’s response or approach that were most relevant to the matter or specific to 
the assessed risk of material misstatement;  
 A brief overview of procedures performed; 
 An indication of the outcome of the auditor’s procedures; or 
 Key observations with respect to the matter, 
or some combination of these elements.  
Law or regulation or Sri Lanka Auditing Standards  may prescribe a specific form or content for the 
description of a key audit matter, or may specify the inclusion of one or more of these elements.  
A47. In order for intended users to understand the significance of a key audit matter in the context of the audit  
of the financial statements as a whole, as well as the relationship between key audit matters and other 
elements of the auditor’s report, including the auditor’s opinion, care may be necessary so that language 
used in the description of a key audit matter: 
 Does not imply that the matter has not been appropriately resolved by the auditor in forming the 
opinion on the financial statements. 
 Relates the matter directly to the specific circumstances of the entity, while avoiding generic or 
standardized language.  
 Takes into account how the matter is addressed in the related disclosure(s) in the financial 
statements, if any.  
 Does not contain or imply discrete opinions on separate elements of the financial statements.  
A48. Describing aspects of the auditor’s response or approach to a matter, in particular when the audit 
approach required significant tailoring to the facts and circumstances of the ent ity, may assist intended 
users in understanding unusual circumstances and significant auditor judgments required to address the 
risk of material misstatement. In addition, the audit approach in a particular period may have been 
influenced by entity-specific circumstances, economic conditions, or industry developments. It may also 
be useful for the auditor to make reference to the nature and extent of communications with those 
charged with governance about the matter. 
A49. For example, in describing the auditor’s  approach to an accounting estimate that has been identified as 
having high estimation uncertainty, such as the valuation of complex financial instruments, the auditor 
may wish to highlight that the auditor employed or engaged an auditor’s expert. Such a r eference to the 
use of an auditor’s expert does not reduce the auditor’s responsibility for the opinion on the financial 
statements and is therefore not inconsistent with paragraphs 14–15 of SLAuS 620.32 
A50. There may be challenges in describing the auditor’s p rocedures, particularly in complex, judgmental 
areas of the audit. In particular, it may be difficult to summarize the procedures performed in a succinct 
                                                           
32  SLAuS 620, Using the Work of an Auditor’s Expert 

<!-- page 264 -->

264A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12     
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
way that adequately communicates the nature and extent of the auditor’s response to the assessed risk of 
material misstatement, and the significant auditor judgments involved. Nonetheless, the auditor may 
consider it necessary to describe certain procedures performed to communicate how the matter was 
addressed in the audit. Such description may typically b e at a high level, rather than include a detailed 
description of procedures. 
A51. As noted in paragraph A46, the auditor may also provide an indication of the outcome of the auditor’s 
response in the description of the key audit matter in the auditor’s report. However, if this is done, care 
is needed to avoid the auditor giving the impression that the description is conveying a separate opinion 
on an individual key audit matter or that in any way may call into question the auditor’s opinion on the 
financial statements as a whole.  
Circumstances in Which a Matter Determined to Be a Key Audit Matter Is Not Communicated in the Auditor’ s 
Report (Ref: Para. 14) 
A52. Law or regulation may preclude public disclosure by either management or the auditor about a specific 
matter determined to be a key audit matter. For example, law or regulation may specifically prohibit any 
public communication that might prejudice an investigation by an appropriate authority into an actual, 
or suspected, illegal act (e.g., matters that are or appear to be related to money laundering). 
A53. As indicated by paragraph 14(b), it will be extremely rare for a matter determined to be a key audit 
matter not to be communicated in the auditor’s report. This is because there is presumed to be a public 
interest benefit in providing greater transparency about the audit for intended users. Accordingly, the 
judgment not to communicate a key audit matter is appropriate only in cases when the adverse 
consequences to the entity or the public as a result of such communi cation are viewed as so significant 
that they would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of communicating about 
the matter. 
A54. The determination not to communicate a key audit matter takes into account the facts and circumstances 
related to the matter. Communication with management and those charged with governance helps the 
auditor understand management’s views about the significance of the adverse consequences that may 
arise as a result of communicating about a matter. In particula r, communication with management and 
those charged with governance helps to inform the auditor’s judgment in determining whether to 
communicate the matter by: 
 Assisting the auditor in understanding why the matter has not been publicly disclosed by the enti ty 
(e.g., if law, regulation or certain financial reporting frameworks permit delayed disclosure or non -
disclosure of the matter) and management’s views as to the adverse consequences, if any, of 
disclosure. Management may draw attention to certain aspects  in law or regulation or other 
authoritative sources that may be relevant to the consideration of adverse consequences (e.g., such 
aspects may include harm to the entity’s commercial negotiations or competitive position). 
However, management’s views about the adverse consequences alone do not alleviate the need for 
the auditor to determine whether the adverse consequences would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of communication in accordance with paragraph 14(b).  
 Highlighting w hether there have been any communications with applicable regulatory, 
enforcement or supervisory authorities in relation to the matter, in particular whether such 
discussions would appear to support management’s assertion as to why public disclosure about the 
matter is not appropriate. 

<!-- page 265 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12    265A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 Enabling the auditor, where appropriate, to encourage management and those charged with 
governance to make public disclosure of relevant information about the matter. In particular, this 
may be possible if the concerns of man agement and those charged with governance about 
communicating are limited to specific aspects relating to the matter, such that certain information 
about the matter may be less sensitive and could be communicated. 
The auditor also may consider it necessary  to obtain a written representation from management as to 
why public disclosure about the matter is not appropriate, including management’s view about the 
significance of the adverse consequences that may arise as a result of such communication.  
A55. It may als o be necessary for the auditor to consider the implications of communicating about a matter 
determined to be a key audit matter in light of relevant ethical requirements. In addition, the auditor may 
be required by law or regulation to communicate with app licable regulatory, enforcement or supervisory 
authorities in relation to the matter, regardless of whether the matter is communicated in the auditor’s 
report. Such communication may also be useful to inform the auditor’s consideration of the adverse 
consequences that may arise from communicating about the matter. 
A56. The issues considered by the auditor regarding a decision to not communicate a matter are complex and 
involve significant auditor judgment. Accordingly, the auditor may consider it appropriate to obtain legal 
advice. 
Form and Content of the Key Audit Matters Section in Other Circumstances (Ref: Para. 16) 
A57. The requirement in paragraph 16 applies in three circumstances: 
(a) The auditor determines in accordance with paragraph 10 that there are no key audit  matters (see 
paragraph A59). 
(b) The auditor determines in accordance with paragraph 14 that a key audit matter will not be 
communicated in the auditor’s report and no other matters have been determined to be key audit 
matters. 
(c) The only matters determined to be key audit matters are those communicated in accordance with 
paragraph 15. 
A58. The following illustrates the presentation in the auditor’s report if the auditor has determined there are 
no key audit matters to communicate:  
Key Audit Matters 
[Except for the matter described in the Basis for Qualified (Adverse) Opinion  section or Material Uncertainty 
Related to Going Concern  section,] We have determined that there are no [other] key audit matters to 
communicate in our report. 
A59. The determination of key audit mat ters involves making a judgment about the relative importance of 
matters that required significant auditor attention. Therefore, it may be rare that the auditor of a 
complete set of general purpose financial statements of a listed entity would not determin e at least one 
key audit matter from the matters communicated with those charged with governance to be 
communicated in the auditor’s report. However, in certain limited circumstances (e.g., for a listed entity 
that has very limited operations), the auditor  may determine that there are no key audit matters in 
accordance with paragraph 10 because there are no matters that required significant auditor attention.  

<!-- page 266 -->

266A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12     
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 17)  
A60. SLAuS 260 (Revised) requires the auditor to communicate with those charged with governance on a 
timely basis. 33 The appropriate timing for communications about key audit matters will vary with the 
circumstances of the engagement. However, the auditor may communi cate preliminary views about key 
audit matters when discussing the planned scope and timing of the audit, and may further discuss such 
matters when communicating about audit findings. Doing so may help to alleviate the practical 
challenges of attempting to  have a robust two -way dialogue about key audit matters at the time the 
financial statements are being finalized for issuance. 
A61. Communication with those charged with governance enables them to be made aware of the key audit 
matters that the auditor intends to communicate in the auditor’s report, and provides them with an 
opportunity to obtain further clarification where necessary. The auditor may consider it useful to provide 
those charged with governance with a draft of the auditor’s report to facilitate th is discussion. 
Communication with those charged with governance recognizes their important role in overseeing the 
financial reporting process, and provides the opportunity for those charged with governance to 
understand the basis for the auditor’s decision s in relation to key audit matters and how these matters 
will be described in the auditor’s report. It also enables those charged with governance to consider 
whether new or enhanced disclosures may be useful in light of the fact that these matters will be 
communicated in the auditor’s report. 
A62. The communication with those charged with governance required by paragraph 17(a) also addresses the 
extremely rare circumstances in which a matter determined to be a key audit matter is not communicated 
in the auditor’s report (see paragraphs 14 and A54). 
A63. The requirement in paragraph 17(b) to communicate with those charged with governance when the 
auditor has determined there are no key audit matters to communicate in the auditor’s report may 
provide an opportunity for the auditor to have further discussion with others who are familiar with the 
audit and the significant matters that may have arisen (including the engagement quality control 
reviewer, where one has been appointed). These discussions may cause the auditor t o re -evaluate the 
auditor’s determination that there are no key audit matters. 
Documentation (Ref: Para. 18) 
A64. Paragraph 8 of SLAuS 230 requires the auditor to prepare audit documentation that is sufficient to 
enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection with the audit, to understand, among other 
things, significant professional judgments. In the context of key audit matters, these professional 
judgments include the determination, from the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, of the matters that required significant auditor attention, as well as whether or not each of 
those matters is a key audit matter. The auditor’s judgments in this regard are likely to be supported by 
the documentation of the auditor’s communications wit h those charged with governance and the audit 
documentation relating to each individual matter (see paragraph A39), as well as certain other audit 
documentation of the significant matters arising during the audit (e.g., a completion memorandum). 
However, this SLAuS does not require the auditor to document why other matters communicated with 
those charged with governance were not matters that required significant auditor attention.  
                                                           
33  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph 21 

<!-- page 267 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  267A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 705 (REVISED) 
MODIFICATIONS TO THE OPINION IN THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S 
REPORT 
 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods  
ending on or after 31 March 2018) 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Paragraphs 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS ……………………………………………………………………………  1 
Types of Modified Opinions …………………………………………….……………...………  2 
Effective Date …………………………………………………..………………………..……..  3 
Objective  …………………………………….……………………………………………….                        4 
Definitions  ………………………………………….…………………………………………  5 
Requirements 
Circumstances When a Modification to the Auditor’s  
Opinion Is Required …………………………………………………………………….………  6 
Determining the Type of Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion ……………………..……..…  715 
Form and Content of the Auditor’s Report When the 
Opinion Is Modified ………………………………………………….………………..……….  1629 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance ………………………………..……...  30 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Types of Modified Opinions…………………………………………………………………….  A1 
Circumstances When a Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion  
Is Required ………………………………………………………………..…………………….  A2A12 
Determining the Type of Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion………………...……………..  A13A16 
Form and Content of the Auditor’s Report When the  
Opinion Is Modified …………………………..………………………………………….……..  A17A26 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance ……………………………..…………  A27 
Appendix: Illustrations of Auditor’s Reports with Modifications 
to the Opinion 
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 705 (Rev ised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report , should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200,  Overall Objectives of the Independent 
Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing  Standards. 
 
 

<!-- page 268 -->

268A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
 
1 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to issue an appropriate 
report in circumstances when, in forming an opinion in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised), 1 the 
auditor concludes that a modif ication to the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements is necessary. 
This SLAuS also deals with how the form and content of the auditor’s report is affected when the auditor 
expresses a modified opinion. In all cases, the reporting requirements in SL AuS 700 (Revised) apply, and 
are not repeated in this SLAuS unless they are explicitly addressed or amended by the requirements of 
this SLAuS. 
 
Types of Modified Opinions 
2 This SLAuS establishes three types of modified opinions, namely, a qualified opinio n, an adverse 
opinion, and a disclaimer of opinion. The decision regarding which type of modified opinion is 
appropriate depends upon:  
(a) The nature of the matter giving rise to the modification, that is, whether the financial statements are 
materially m isstated or, in the case of an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, 
may be materially misstated; and 
(b) The auditor’s judgment about the pervasiveness of the effects or possible effects of the matter on the 
financial statements. (Ref: Para. A1) 
 
Effective Date 
 
3. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after 31 March 2018.  
 
Objective 
4 The objective of the auditor is to express clearly an appropriately modified opinion on the financial 
statements that is necessary when: 
(a) The auditor concludes, based on the audit evidence obtained, that the financial statements as a 
whole are not free from material misstatement; or 
(b) The auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to conclu de that the financial 
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement.  
 
Definitions 
5 For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:  
(a) Pervasive – A term used, in the context of misstatements, to describe the effects on the financial 
statements of misstatements or the possible effects on the financial statements of misstatements, if 
any, that are undetected due to an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. 
Pervasive effects on the financial statements are those that, in the auditor’s judgment: 
(i) Are not confined to specific elements, accounts or items of the financial statements;  
(ii) If so confined, represent or could represent a substantial proportion of the financial 
statements; or  
                                                           
1  SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements 

<!-- page 269 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  269A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(iii) In relati on to disclosures, are fundamental to users’ understanding of the financial 
statements. 
(b) Modified opinion – A qualified opinion, an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion on the 
financial statements. 
 
Requirements 
Circumstances When a Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion Is Required 
6 The auditor shall modify the opinion in the auditor’s report when: 
(a) The auditor concludes that, based on the audit evidence obtained, the financial statements as a 
whole are not free from material misstatement; or (Ref: Para. A2–A7) 
(b) The auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to conclude that the 
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. (Ref: Para. A8 –A12) 
 
Determining the Type of Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion 
Qualified Opinion 
7 The auditor shall express a qualified opinion when: 
(a) The auditor, having obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence, concludes that 
misstatements, individually or in the aggregate, are material, but not pervasive, to the  financial 
statements; or  
 
(b) The auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the 
opinion, but the auditor concludes that the possible effects on the financial statements of 
undetected misstatements, if any, could be material but not pervasive 
 
Adverse Opinion 
8. The auditor shall express an adverse opinion when the auditor, having obtained sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence, concludes that misstatements, individually or in the aggregate, are both material and 
pervasive to the financial statements. 
 
Disclaimer of Opinion 
9 The auditor shall disclaim an opinion when the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence on which to base the opinion, and the auditor concludes that the possible effects on the financial 
statements of undetected misstatements, if any, could be both material and pervasive.  
 
10 The auditor shall disclaim an opinion when, in extremely rare circumstances involving multiple 
uncertainties, the auditor concludes that, notwithsta nding having obtained sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence regarding each of the individual uncertainties, it is not possible to form an opinion on the 
financial statements due to the potential interaction of the uncertainties and their possible cumulativ e 
effect on the financial statements. 
Consequence of an Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence Due to a Management -Imposed 
Limitation after the Auditor Has Accepted the Engagement  
11 If, after accepting the engagement, the auditor becom es aware that management has imposed a limitation 
on the scope of the audit that the auditor considers likely to result in the need to express a qualified 
opinion or to disclaim an opinion on the financial statements, the auditor shall request that managem ent 
remove the limitation.  

<!-- page 270 -->

270A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
12 If management refuses to remove the limitation referred to in paragraph 11 of this SLAuS, the auditor 
shall communicate the matter to those charged with governance, unless all of those charged with 
governance are involved in managing the entity, 2 and determine whether it is possible to perform 
alternative procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.  
13 If the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, the auditor shall determine the 
implications as follows: 
(a) If the auditor concludes that the possible effects on the financial statements of undetected 
misstatements, if any, could be material but not pervasive, the auditor shall qualify the opinion; or  
(b) If the auditor concludes that th e possible effects on the financial statements of undetected 
misstatements, if any, could be both material and pervasive so that a qualification of the opinion 
would be inadequate to communicate the gravity of the situation, the auditor shall:  
(i) Withdraw from the audit, where practicable and possible under applicable law or 
regulation; or (Ref: Para. A13) 
(ii) If withdrawal from the audit before issuing the auditor’s report is not practicable or 
possible, disclaim an opinion on the financial statements. (Ref. Para. A14) 
14 If the auditor withdraws as contemplated by paragraph 13(b)(i), before withdrawing, the auditor shall 
communicate to those charged with governance any matters regarding misstatements identified during 
the audit that would have given rise to a modification of the opinion. (Ref: Para. A15) 
Other Considerations Relating to an Adverse Opinion or Disclaimer of Opinion 
15 When the auditor considers it necessary to express an adverse opinion or disclaim an opinion on the 
financial statements as  a whole, the auditor’s report shall not also include an unmodified opinion with 
respect to the same financial reporting framework on a single financial statement or one or more specific 
elements, accounts or items of a financial statement. To include such  an unmodified opinion in the same 
report3 in these circumstances would contradict the auditor’s adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion on 
the financial statements as a whole. (Ref: Para. A16) 
Form and Content of the Auditor’s Report When the Opinion Is Modified 
Auditor’s Opinion  
16 When the auditor modifies the audit opinion, the auditor shall use the heading ―Qualified Opinion,‖ 
―Adverse Opinion,‖ or ―Disclaimer of Opinion,‖ as appropriate, for the Opinion section. (Ref: Para. 
A17–A19)  
Qualified Opinion 
17 When the auditor expresses a qualified opinion due to a material misstatement in the financial statements, 
the auditor shall state that, in the auditor’s opinion, except for the effects of the matter(s) described in the 
Basis for Qualified Opinion section: 
(a) When reporting in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the accompanying financial 
statements give a true and fair view of (or present fairly, in all material respects) […] in accordance 
with [the applicable financial reporting framework]; or 
 
(b) When reporting in accordance with a compliance framework, the accompanying financial 
statements have been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with [the applicable 
financial reporting framework].  
                                                           
2  SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance, paragraph 13 
3  SLAuS 805 (Revised), Special Considerations —Audits of Single Financial Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts or 
Items of a Financial Statemen t, deals with circumstances where the auditor is engaged to express a separate opinion on one 
or more specific elements, accounts or items of a financial statement. 

<!-- page 271 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  271A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
When the modification arises from an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, the auditor 
shall use the corresponding phrase ―except for the possible effects of the matter(s) ...‖ for the modified 
opinion. (Ref: Para. A20) 
 
Adverse Opinion 
18 When the auditor expresses a n adverse opinion, the auditor shall state that, in the auditor’s opinion, 
because of the significance of the matter(s) described in the Basis for Adverse Opinion section: 
(a) When reporting in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the accompanyin g financial 
statements do not give a true and fair view of (or present fairly) […] in accordance with [the 
applicable financial reporting framework]; or  
(b) When reporting in accordance with a compliance framework, the accompanying financial 
statements ha ve not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with [the applicable 
financial reporting framework]. 
 
Disclaimer of Opinion  
19 When the auditor disclaims an opinion due to an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, 
the auditor shall:  
(a) State that the auditor does not express an opinion on the accompanying financial statements;  
(b) State that, because of the significance of the matter(s) described in the Basis for Disclaimer of 
Opinion section, the auditor has not been a ble to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to 
provide a basis for an audit opinion on the financial statements; and  
(c) Amend the statement required by paragraph 24(b) of SLAuS 700 (Revised), which indicates that 
the financial statements have bee n audited, to state that the auditor was engaged to audit the 
financial statements. 
Basis for Opinion  
20 When the auditor modifies the opinion on the financial statements, the auditor shall, in addition to the 
specific elements required by SLAuS 700 (Revised): (Ref: Para. A21)  
(a) Amend the heading ―Basis for Opinion‖ required by paragraph 28 of SLAuS 700 (Revised) to 
―Basis for Qualified Opinion,‖ ―Basis for Adverse Opinion,‖ or ―Basis for Disclaimer of 
Opinion,‖ as appropriate; and  
(b) Within this section, include a description of the matter giving rise to the modification.  
21 If there is a material misstatement of the financial statements that relates to specific amounts in the 
financial statements (including quantitative disclosures), the auditor sha ll include in the Basis for 
Opinion section a description and quantification of the financial effects of the misstatement, unless 
impracticable. If it is not practicable to quantify the financial effects, the auditor shall so state in this 
section. (Ref: Para. A22)  
22 If there is a material misstatement of the financial statements that relates to qualitative disclosures, the 
auditor shall include in the Basis for Opinion section an explanation of how the disclosures are misstated.  
23 If there is a materia l misstatement of the financial statements that relates to the non -disclosure of 
information required to be disclosed, the auditor shall:  
(a) Discuss the non-disclosure with those charged with governance;  
(b) Describe in the Basis for Opinion section the nature of the omitted information; and  
(c) Unless prohibited by law or regulation, include the omitted disclosures, provided it is 
practicable to do so and the auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the 
omitted information. (Ref: Para. A23)  

<!-- page 272 -->

272A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
24 If the modification results from an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, the auditor 
shall include in the Basis for Opinion section the reasons for that inability. 
25 When the auditor expresses a qualified or adverse opin ion, the auditor shall amend the statement about 
whether the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for the auditor’s 
opinion required by paragraph 28(d) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) to include the word ―qualified‖ or 
―adverse‖, as appropriate.  
26 When the auditor disclaims an opinion on the financial statements, the auditor’s report shall not include 
the elements required by paragraphs 28(b) and 28(d) of SLAuS 700 (Revised). Those elements are:  
(a) A reference to the section o f the auditor’s report where the auditor’s responsibilities are described; 
and  
(b) A statement about whether the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for the auditor’s opinion. 
27 Even if the auditor has expressed an ad verse opinion or disclaimed an opinion on the financial 
statements, the auditor shall describe in the Basis for Opinion section the reasons for any other matters of 
which the auditor is aware that would have required a modification to the opinion, and the effects thereof. 
(Ref: Para. A24)  
 
Description of Auditor’ s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements When the Auditor 
Disclaims an Opinion on the Financial Statements 
28 When the auditor disclaims an opinion on the financial statements d ue to an inability to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence, the auditor shall amend the description of the auditor’s responsibilities 
required by paragraphs 39–41 of SLAuS 700 (Revised) to include only the following: (Ref: Para. A25)  
(a) A statement t hat the auditor’s responsibility is to conduct an audit of the entity’s financial 
statements in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards and to issue an auditor’s report;  
(b) A statement that, however, because of the matter(s) described in the Basis for D isclaimer of 
Opinion section, the auditor was not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide 
a basis for an audit opinion on the financial statements; and  
(c) The statement about auditor independence and other ethical responsibilities req uired by paragraph 
28(c) of SLAuS 700 (Revised).  
Considerations When the Auditor Disclaims an Opinion on the Financial Statements 
29 Unless required by law or regulation, when the auditor disclaims an opinion on the financial statements, 
the auditor’s rep ort shall not include a Key Audit Matters section in accordance with SLAuS 701 or an 
Other Information section in accordance with SLAuS 720 (Revised).4,5 (Ref: Para. A26 
 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance  
30 When the auditor expects to modi fy the opinion in the auditor’s report, the auditor shall communicate 
with those charged with governance the circumstances that led to the expected modification and the 
wording of the modification. (Ref: Para. A27)  
 
*** 
 
                                                           
4  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report, paragraphs 11–13  
5  SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information, paragraph A54 

<!-- page 273 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  273A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Types of Modified Opinions (Ref: Para. 2) 
 
A1 The table below illustrates how the auditor’s judgment about the nature of the matter giving rise to the 
modification, and the pervasiveness of its effects or possible effects on the financial statemen ts, affects 
the type of opinion to be expressed. 
 
Nature of Matter Giving Rise to the 
Modification 
Auditor’s Judgment about the Pervasiveness of the Effects 
or Possible Effects on the Financial Statements 
Material but Not Pervasive Material and Pervasive 
Financial statements are 
materially misstated Qualified opinion Adverse opinion 
Inability to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence Qualified opinion Disclaimer of opinion 
 
Circumstances When a Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion Is Required 
Nature of Material Misstatements (Ref: Para. 6(a)) 
 
A2 SLAuS 700 (Revised) requires the auditor, in order to form an opinion on the financial statements, to 
conclude as to whether reasonable assurance has been obtained about whether the financial statements 
as a whole are free from material misstatement. 6 This conclusion takes into account the auditor’s 
evaluation of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements in accordance with SLAuS 
450.7 
A3 SLAuS 450 defines a misstatement as a differenc e between the reported amount, classification, 
presentation, or disclosure of a financial statement item and the amount, classification, presentation, 
or disclosure that is required for the item to be in accordance with the applicable financial reporting 
framework. Accordingly, a material misstatement of the financial statements may arise in relation to: 
(a) The appropriateness of the selected accounting policies; 
(b) The application of the selected accounting policies; or 
(c) The appropriateness or adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements 
 
Appropriateness of the Selected Accounting Policies 
A4 In relation to the appropriateness of the accounting policies management has selected, material 
misstatements of the financial statements may arise for example when: 
(a) The selected accounting policies are not consistent with the applicable financial reporting 
framework; 
                                                           
6  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 11 
7  SLAuS 450, Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit, paragraph 11 

<!-- page 274 -->

274A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(b) The financial statements do not correctly describe an accounting policy relating to a significant item in 
the statement of financial position, the statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in 
equity or the statement of cash flows; or 
(c) The financial statements do not represent or disclose the underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation.  
A5 Financial reporting frameworks often contain requirements for the accounting for, and disclosure of, 
changes in accounting policies. Where the entity has changed its selection of significant accounting 
policies, a material misstatement of the financial statements may aris e when the entity has not 
complied with these requirements 
Application of the Selected Accounting Policies  
A6 In relation to the application of the selected accounting policies, material misstatements of the 
financial statements may arise: 
(a) When management has not applied the selected accounting policies consistently with the financial 
reporting framework, including when management has not applied the selected accounting policies 
consistently between periods or to similar transactions and events (consistenc y in application); or  
(b) Due to the method of application of the selected accounting policies (such as an unintentional 
error in application). 
Appropriateness or Adequacy of Disclosures in the Financial Statements 
A7 In relation to the appropriateness or ade quacy of disclosures in the financial statements, material 
misstatements of the financial statements may arise when: 
(a) The financial statements do not include all of the disclosures required by the applicable financial 
reporting framework; 
(b) The disclosures in  the financial statements are not presented in accordance with the applicable 
financial reporting framework; or 
(c) The financial statements do not provide the additional disclosures necessary to achieve fair 
presentation beyond disclosures specifically requir ed by the applicable financial reporting 
framework.  
Paragraph A13a of SLAuS 450 provides further examples of material misstatements in qualitative 
disclosures that may arise. 
 
Nature of an Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 6(b)) 
A8 The auditor’s inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence (also referred to as a limitation 
on the scope of the audit) may arise from: 
(a) Circumstances beyond the control of the entity; 
(b) Circumstances relating to the nature or timing of the auditor’s work; or 
(c) Limitations imposed by management.  

<!-- page 275 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  275A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
A9 An inability to perform a specific procedure does not constitute a limitation on the scope of the audit 
if the auditor is able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence by performing a lternative 
procedures. If this is not possible, the requirements of paragraphs 7(b) and 9 –10 apply as appropriate. 
Limitations imposed by management may have other implications for the audit, such as for the 
auditor’s assessment of fraud risks and consideration of engagement continuance. 
A10 Examples of circumstances beyond the control of the entity include when:  
 The entity’s accounting records have been destroyed.  
 The accounting records of a significant component have been seized indefinitely by governme ntal 
authorities. 
A11 Examples of circumstances relating to the nature or timing of the auditor’s work include when:  
 The entity is required to use the equity method of accounting for an associated entity, and the 
auditor is unable to obtain sufficient app ropriate audit evidence about the latter’s financial 
information to evaluate whether the equity method has been appropriately applied.  
 The timing of the auditor’s appointment is such that the auditor is unable to observe the counting 
of the physical inventories. 
 The auditor determines that performing substantive procedures alone is not sufficient, but the 
entity’s controls are not effective.  
A12 Examples of an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence arising from a limitation on 
the scope of the audit imposed by management include when: 
 Management prevents the auditor from observing the counting of the physical inventory.  
 
 Management prevents the auditor from requesting external confirmation of specific account 
balances. 
 
Determining the Type of Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion 
Consequence of an Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence Due to a Management -Imposed 
Limitation after the Auditor Has Accepted the Engagement (Ref: Para. 13(b)(i)–14) 
A13 The practicality of w ithdrawing from the audit may depend on the stage of completion of the 
engagement at the time that management imposes the scope limitation. If the auditor has substantially 
completed the audit, the auditor may decide to complete the audit to the extent pos sible, disclaim an 
opinion and explain the scope limitation within the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion section prior to 
withdrawing.  
A14 In certain circumstances, withdrawal from the audit may not be possible if the auditor is required by 
law or regulatio n to continue the audit engagement. This may be the case for an auditor that is 
appointed to audit the financial statements of public sector entities. It may also be the case in 
jurisdictions where the auditor is appointed to audit the financial statements  covering a specific 
period, or appointed for a specific period and is prohibited from withdrawing before the completion of 

<!-- page 276 -->

276A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
the audit of those financial statements or before the end of that period, respectively. The auditor may 
also consider it necessary to include an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report.8  
A15 When the auditor concludes that withdrawal from the audit is necessary because of a scope limitation, 
there may be a professional, legal or regulatory requirement for the auditor to communi cate matters 
relating to the withdrawal from the engagement to regulators or the entity’s owners. 
Other Considerations Relating to an Adverse Opinion or Disclaimer of Opinion (Ref: Para. 15) 
A16 The following are examples of reporting circumstances that would not contradict the auditor’s adverse 
opinion or disclaimer of opinion: 
 The expression of an unmodified opinion on financial statements prepared under a given financial 
reporting framework and, within the same report, the expression of an adverse opinio n on the 
same financial statements under a different financial reporting framework. 9  
 The expression of a disclaimer of opinion regarding the results of operations, and cash flows, 
where relevant, and an unmodified opinion regarding the financial position (see SLAuS 51010). In 
this case, the auditor has not expressed a disclaimer of opinion on the financial statements as a 
whole. 
 
Form and Content of the Auditor’s Report When the Opinion Is Modified  
Illustrative Auditor’s Reports (Ref: Para. 16) 
A17 Illustrations 1 and 2 in the Appendix contain auditor’s reports with qualified and adverse opinions, 
respectively, as the financial statements are materially misstated.  
A18 Illustration 3 in the Appendix contains an auditor’s report with a qualified opinion as t he auditor is 
unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. Illustration 4 contains a disclaimer of opinion 
due to an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about a single element of the 
financial statements. Illustration 5 con tains a disclaimer of opinion due to an inability to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence about multiple elements of the financial statements. In each of 
the latter two cases, the possible effects on the financial statements of the inability are bo th material 
and pervasive. The Appendices to other SLAuSs that include reporting requirements, including 
SLAuS 570 (Revised),11 also include illustrations of auditor’s reports with modified opinions. 
 
Auditor’s Opinion (Ref: Para. 16) 
A19 Amending this head ing makes it clear to the user that the auditor’s opinion is modified and indicates 
the type of modification.  
                                                           
8  SLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report , 
paragraph A10 
9  See paragraph A31 of SLAuS 700 (Revised) for a description of this circumstance. 
10  SLAuS 510, Initial Audit Engagements―Opening Balances, paragraph 10 
11  SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern 

<!-- page 277 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  277A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Qualified Opinion (Ref: Para. 17) 
A20 When the auditor expresses a qualified opinion, it would not be appropriate to use phrases such as 
―with the foregoing explanation‖ or ―subject to‖ in the Opinion section as these are not sufficiently 
clear or forceful.  
Basis for Opinion (Ref: Para. 20, 21, 23, 27) 
A21 Consistency in the auditor’s report helps to promote users’ understanding and to identify un usual 
circumstances when they occur. Accordingly, although uniformity in the wording of a modified 
opinion and in the description of the reasons for the modification may not be possible, consistency in 
both the form and content of the auditor’s report is desirable.  
A22 An example of the financial effects of material misstatements that the auditor may describe within the 
Basis for Opinion section in the auditor’s report is the quantification of the effects on income tax, 
income before taxes, net income and equity if inventory is overstated.  
A23 Disclosing the omitted information within the Basis for Opinion section would not be practicable if:  
(a) The disclosures have not been prepared by management or the disclosures are otherwise not 
readily available to the auditor; or 
(b) In the auditor’s judgment, the disclosures would be unduly voluminous in relation to the auditor’s 
report. 
A24 An adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion relating to a specific matter described within the Basis 
for Opinion section does not j ustify the omission of a description of other identified matters that 
would have otherwise required a modification of the auditor’s opinion. In such cases, the disclosure of 
such other matters of which the auditor is aware may be relevant to users of the f inancial statements. 
Description of Auditor’ s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements When the Auditor 
Disclaims an Opinion on the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 28)  
A25 When the auditor disclaims an opinion on the financial statement s, the following statements are better 
positioned within the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of 
the auditor’s report, as illustrated in Illustrations 4–5 of the Appendix to this SLAuS: 
 The statement required by paragraph 28(a) of SLAuS 700 (Revised), amended to state that the 
auditor’s responsibility is to conduct an audit of the entity’s financial statements in accordance 
with SLAuSs; and 
 The statement required by paragraph 28(c) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) about ind ependence and other 
ethical responsibilities. 
Considerations When the Auditor Disclaims an Opinion on the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 29) 
A26 Providing the reasons for the auditor’s inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence within 
the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion section of the auditor’s report provides useful information to 
users in understanding why the auditor has disclaimed an opinion on the financial statements and may 
further guard against inappropriate reliance on them. Howeve r, communication of any key audit 
matters other than the matter(s) giving rise to the disclaimer of opinion may suggest that the financial 
statements as a whole are more credible in relation to those matters than would be appropriate in the 

<!-- page 278 -->

278A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
circumstances, and would be inconsistent with the disclaimer of opinion on the financial statements as 
a whole. Similarly, it would not be appropriate to include an Other Information section in accordance 
with SLAuS 720 (Revised) addressing the auditor’s consideration of  the consistency of the other 
information with the financial statements. Accordingly, paragraph 29 of this SLAuS prohibits a Key 
Audit Matters section or an Other Information section from being included in the auditor’s report 
when the auditor disclaims an  opinion on the financial statements, unless the auditor is otherwise 
required by law or regulation to communicate key audit matters or to report on other information.  
Communication with Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 30) 
A27 Communicating with  those charged with governance the circumstances that lead to an expected 
modification to the auditor’s opinion and the wording of the modification enables:  
(a) The auditor to give notice to those charged with governance of the intended modification(s) and 
the reasons (or circumstances) for the modification(s); 
(b) The auditor to seek the concurrence of those charged with governance regarding the facts of the 
matter(s) giving rise to the expected modification(s), or to confirm matters of disagreement with 
management as such; and  
(c) Those charged with governance to have an opportunity, where appropriate, to provide the auditor 
with further information and explanations in respect of the matter(s) giving rise to the expected 
modification(s).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 279 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  279A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Appendix 
(Ref:Para A17-A18,A25) 
 
Illustrations of Independent Auditor’s Reports with Modifications to the Opinion  
  Illustration 1: An auditor’s report containing a qualified opinion due to a material misstatement of the 
financial statements.  
  Illustration 2: An auditor’s report containing an adverse opinion due to a material misstatement of the 
consolidated financial statements.  
 Illustration 3: An auditor’s report containing a qualified opinion due to the auditor’s inability to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding a foreign associate. 
 Illustration 4: An auditor’s report containing a disclaimer of opinion due to the auditor’s inability to 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about a single element of the consolidated financial 
statements.  
 Illustration 5: An auditor’s report containing a disclaimer of opinion due to the auditor’s inability to 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about multiple elements of the financial statements.  
 
Illustration 1 – Qualified Opinion due to a Material Misstatement of the Financial Statements 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentation 
framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 60012 does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework).  
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the descr iption of management’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210.13  
 Inventories are misstated. The misstatement is deemed to be material but not pervasive to the 
financial statements (i.e., a qualified opinion is appropriate). 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does 
not exist related to events or conditions that may cast signifi cant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701.  
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the  auditor’s report and 
the matter giving rise to the qualified opinion on the consolidated financial statements also affects 
the other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements.  
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities 
required under local law. 
                                                           
12  SLAuS 600, Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors) 
13  SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements 

<!-- page 280 -->

280A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements14 
 
Qualified Opinion  
 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement of 
financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
 
In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter described in t he Basis for Qualified Opinion section of our 
report, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of, (or present fairly in all material 
respects) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial per formance 
and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.  
 
Basis for Qualified Opinion  
The Company’s inventories are carried in the statement of financial position at xxx. Management has not 
stated the inventor ies at the lower of cost and net realizable value but has stated them solely at cost, which 
constitutes a departure from Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. The Company’s records indicate that, had 
management stated the inventories at the lower of cost and net  realizable value, an amount of xxx would have 
been required to write the inventories down to their net realizable value. Accordingly, cost of sales would 
have been increased by xxx, and income tax, net income and shareholders’ equity would have been reduc ed 
by xxx, xxx and xxx, respectively.  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the  audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified opinion. 
 
Other Information [or other title if appropriate such as ―Information Other that the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖] 
 
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements of SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustration 6 in Appendix 
2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised). The last paragraph of the other information section in Illustration 6 would be 
customized to describe the specific matter giv ing rise to the qualified opinion that also affects the other 
information.] 
 
Key Audit Matters 
  
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit 
of the financial statements of the current perio d. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
                                                           
14  The sub -title ―Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements‖ is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title 
―Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements‖ is not applicable. 

<!-- page 281 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  281A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
opinion on these matters. In addition to the matter described in the Basis for Qualifie d Opinion  section we 
have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.  
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701.] 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements15  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsibl e for signing this independent 
auditor’s report is [number].  
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [audit firm address] 
 
[Date] 
 
 
Illustration 2 – Adverse Opinion due to a Material Misstatement of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 
 Audit of a complete set of consolidated financial statements of a listed entity using a fair 
presentation framework. The audit is a group audit of an entity with subsidiaries ( i.e., SLAuS 600 
applies). 
 The consolidated financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting (a general purpose framework).  
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s respo nsibility for the 
consolidated financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The consolidated financial statements are materially misstated due to the non -consolidation of a 
subsidiary. The material misstatement is deemed to be pervasive to the consolidated financial  
statements. The effects of the misstatement on the consolidated financial statements have not been 
determined because it was not practicable to do so (i.e., an adverse opinion is appropriate).  
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does 
not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 SLAuS 701 applies; however, the auditor has determined that there are no key audit matters other 
than the matter described in the Basis for Adverse Opinion section.  
                                                           
15  Throughout the illustrative auditor’s reports, the terms management and those charged with governance may need to be 
replaced by another term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.  

<!-- page 282 -->

282A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 The auditor has obtained all of  the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report and 
the matter giving rise to the adverse opinion on the consolidated financial statements also affects 
the other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the consolidated financial statements differ from those responsible for 
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.  
 In addition to the audit of the consolidated financial statements, the auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities required under local law. 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements16  
Adverse Opinion 
 
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and its subsidiarie s (the Group), 
which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and 
consolidated statement of cash flows for the yea r then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
 
In our opinion, because of the significance of the matter discussed in the Basis for Adverse Opinion section of 
our report, the accompanying consolidated financial statements do not give a true and fair view of, ( or do not 
present fairly ) the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its 
consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
 
Basis for Adverse Opinion  
As explained in Note X, the Group has not consolidated subsidiary XYZ Company that the Group acquired 
during 20X1 because it has not yet been able to  determine the fair values of certain of the subsidiary’s 
material assets and liabilities at the acquisition date. This investment is therefore accounted for on a cost 
basis. Under Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, the Company should have consolidated this s ubsidiary and 
accounted for the acquisition based on provisional amounts. Had XYZ Company been consolidated, many 
elements in the accompanying consolidated financial statements would have been materially affected. The 
effects on the consolidated financial statements of the failure to consolidate have not been determined.  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of 
Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) , and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with  these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our adverse opinion. 
 
                                                           
16  The sub-title ―Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial St atements‖ is unnecessary in circumstances when the second 
sub-title ―Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements‖ is not applicable.  

<!-- page 283 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  283A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as ―Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖] 
 
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustration 7 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised). The last paragraph of the other information section in Illustration 7 
would be custom ized to describe the specific matter giving rise to the qualified opinion that also affects the 
other information.] 
 
Key Audit Matters  
 
Except for the matter described in the Basis for Adverse Opinion  section, we have determined that there are 
no other key audit matters to communicate in our report. 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements17  
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for the independent auditor’s report 
is [number] 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit Firm Address] 
 
[Date] 
 
 
Illustration 3 – Qualified Opinion due to the Auditor’s Inability to Obtain Sufficient Audit Evidence 
Regarding a Foreign Associate  
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 
 Audit of a complete set of  consolidated financial statements of a listed entity using a fair 
presentation framework. The audit is a group audit of an entity with subsidiaries (i.e., SLAuS 600 
applies). 
 The consolidated financial statements are prepared by management of the entity i n accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework).  
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
consolidated financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor was unable to obta in sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding an investment in 
a foreign associate. The possible effects of the inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
                                                           
17  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 284 -->

284A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
evidence are deemed to be material but not pervasive to the consolidated financial stateme nts (i.e., 
a qualified opinion is appropriate).  
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the code of ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does 
not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701.  
 The auditor has  obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report and 
the matter giving rise to the qualified opinion on the consolidated financial statements also affects 
the other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the consolidated financial statements differ from those responsible for 
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.  
 In addition to the audit of the consolidated financial statements, the auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities required under local law 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
 
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements18  
 
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and its subsidiari es (the Group), 
which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and 
consolidated statement of cash flows for the ye ar then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
 
In our opinion, except for the possible effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion  
section of our report, th e accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of, ( or 
present fairly, in all material respects ) the financial position of the Group as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) 
its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated c ash flows for the year then ended in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
 
Basis for Qualified Opinion  
 
The Group’s investment in XYZ Company, a foreign associate acquired during the year and accounted for by 
the equity method, is carried at xx x on the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 
20X1, and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net income of xxx is included in ABC’s income for the year then ended. 
We were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the carrying  amount of ABC’s 
investment in XYZ as at December 31, 20X1 and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net income for the year because we 
were denied access to the financial information, management, and the auditors of XYZ. Consequently, we 
were unable to determine whether any adjustments to these amounts were necessary.  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
                                                           
18  The sub-title ―Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements‖ is unnecessary in circumstances when the second 
sub-title ―Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements‖ is not applicable. 

<!-- page 285 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  285A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by 
CA Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka Code), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our qualified opinion.  
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as ―Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖] 
 
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements of SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustration 6 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised). The last paragraph of the other information section in Illustration 6 
would be customized to desc ribe the specific matter giving rise to the qualified opinion that also affects the 
other information.] 
Key Audit Matters  
 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit 
of the consolidated f inancial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of 
our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do 
not provide a separate opinion on these matters. In addit ion to the matter described in the Basis for Qualified 
Opinion section, we have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report. 
 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701.] 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements19  
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing the independent 
auditor’s report is [number].  
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [audit firm address]   
 
[Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
19  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction  

<!-- page 286 -->

286A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Illustration 4 – Disclaimer of Opinion  due to the Auditor’s Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate 
Audit Evidence about a Single Element of the Consolidated Financial Statements  
 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 Audit of a complet e set of consolidated financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity 
using a fair presentation framework. The audit is a group audit of an entity with subsidiaries (i.e., 
SLAuS 600 applies). 
 The consolidated financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework).  
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
consolidated financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about a single element of 
the consolidated financial statements. That is, the auditor was also unable to obtain audit evidence 
about the financial information of a joint venture investme nt that represents over 90% of the 
entity’s net assets. The possible effects of this inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence are deemed to be both material and pervasive to the consolidated financial statements 
(i.e., a disclaimer of opinion is appropriate).  
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka 
 Those responsible for oversight of the consolidated financial statements differ from those responsible for 
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.  
 A more limited description of the auditor’s responsibilities section is required.  
 In addition to the audit of the consolidated financial statements, the auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities required under local law. 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements20  
Disclaimer of Opinion 
 
We were engaged to audit the consolidated financial statemen ts of ABC Company and its subsidiaries (the 
Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and 
consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
 
We do not express an opinion on the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group . Because 
of the significance of the matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer of  Opinion section of our report, we 
have not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on 
these consolidated financial statements. 
                                                           
20  The sub-title ―Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements‖ is unnecessary in circumstances when the second 
sub-title ―Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements‖ is not applicable. 

<!-- page 287 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  287A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
 
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion 
 
The Group’s investment in its joint venture XYZ Company is carried at xxx on the Group’s consolidated 
statement of financial position, which represents over 90% of the Group’s net assets as at December 31, 
20X1. We were not allowed access to the management and the auditors of XYZ Company, including XYZ 
Company’s auditors’ audit documentation. As a result, we were unable to determine whether any adjustments 
were necessary in respect of the Group’s proportional share of XYZ Company’s assets that it controls jointly, 
its proportional share of XYZ Company’s liabilities for which it is jointly responsible, its proportional share 
of XYZ’s income and expenses for the year, and the elements making up the consolidated s tatement of 
changes in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement. 
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements21 
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 4 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements  
Our responsibility is to conduct an audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards and to issu e an auditor’s report. However, because of the matter described in the 
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion section of our report, we were not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on these consolidated financial statements. 
 
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka 
Code), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.  
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 4 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit firm address]  
 
[Date] 
 
 
Illustration 5 – Disclaimer of Opinion due to the Auditor’s  Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate 
Audit Evidence about Multiple Elements of the Financial Statements 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using a fair 
presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600, does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework).  
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
                                                           
21  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 288 -->

288A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 The auditor was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about multiple elemen ts of 
the financial statements, that is, the auditor was also unable to obtain audit evidence about the 
entity’s inventories and accounts receivable. The possible effects of this inability to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence are deemed to be bo th material and pervasive to the financial 
statements.  
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible f or the 
preparation of the financial statements.  
 A more limited description of the auditor’s responsibilities section is required. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities 
required under local law. 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements22  
Disclaimer of Opinion 
 
We were engaged to audit the financial statements of ABC Company (the Compa ny), which comprise the 
statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, 
statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial 
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
 
We do not express an opinion on the accompanying financial statements of the Company. Because of the 
significance of the matters described in the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion section of our report, we have not 
been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on these 
financial statements. 
 
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion  
We were not appointed as auditors of the Company until after December 31, 20X1 and thus  did not observe 
the counting of physical inventories at the beginning and end of the year. We were unable to satisfy ourselves 
by alternative means concerning the inventory quantities held at December 31, 20X0 and 20X1, which are 
stated in the statements of financial position at xxx and xxx, respectively. In addition, the introduction of a 
new computerized accounts receivable system in September 20X1 resulted in numerous errors in accounts 
receivable. As of the date of our report, management was still in t he process of rectifying the system 
deficiencies and correcting the errors. We were unable to confirm or verify by alternative means accounts 
receivable included in the statement of financial position at a total amount of xxx as at December 31, 20X1. 
As a result of these matters, we were unable to determine whether any adjustments might have been found 
necessary in respect of recorded or unrecorded inventories and accounts receivable, and the elements making 
up the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows. 
 
                                                           
22  The sub -title ―Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements‖ is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title 
―Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements‖ is not applicable. 

<!-- page 289 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  289A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements 23  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements  
Our responsibility is to conduct an audit of the Company’s financial statements in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Auditing Standards and to issue an auditor’s report. However, because of the matters described in the Basis for 
Disclaimer of Opinion section of our report, we were not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to 
provide a basis for an audit opinion on these financial statements.  
We are independent of the Company in accordance w ith the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.  
 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit firm address]  
 
[Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
23  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 290 -->

290A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 706 (REVISED) 
EMPHASIS OF MATTER PARAGRAPHS AND OTHER MATTER 
PARAGRAPHS IN THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods  
ending on or after 31 March 2018) 
 
CONTENTS 
Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS ……………………………………………………………….…………  1–4 
Effective Date  ………………………………………………………………………………..  5 
Objective …………………………………………………..…………………………….                       6 
Definitions  ..................................................................................................................  7 
Requirements 
Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report ……………………………………….  8–9 
Other Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report ………………………………….…………  10–11 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance  …………………………………...  12 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
The Relationship between Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Key  
Audit Matters in the Auditor’s Report ……………………………………………………….  A1–A3 
Circumstances in Which an Emphasis of Matter Paragraph 
May Be Necessary ………………………………………………………………..…………  A4–A6  
Including an Emphasis of Matter Paragraph in the Auditor’s Report ……………….………  A7–A8 
Other Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report …………………………………...………..  A9–A15 
Placement of Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other 
Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report ………………………………….……………….  A16–A17 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance ……………………………………….  A18 
Appendix 1: List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Emphasis  
of Matter Paragraphs 
Appendix 2: List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Other  
Matter Paragraphs 
Appendix 3: Illustration of an Auditor’s Report that Includes a Key Audit Matters Section, an Emphasis of 
Matter Paragraph, and an Other Matter Paragraph 
Appendix 4: Illustration of an Auditor’s Report Containing a Qualified Opinion Due to a Departure from the 
Applicable Financial Reporting Framework and that Includes an Emphasis of Matter Paragraph  
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter 
Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report , should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, 
Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lan ka 
Auditing Standards. 

<!-- page 291 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  291A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with additional communication in the auditor’s report 1.
when the auditor considers it necessary to: 
 Draw users’ attention to a matter or matters presente d or disclosed in the financial statements that are of 
such importance that they are fundamental to users’ understanding of the financial statements; or  
 Draw users’ attention to any matter or matters other than those presented or disclosed in the financia l 
statements that are relevant to users’ understanding of the audit, the auditor’s responsibilities or the 
auditor’s report. 
 SLAuS 701 1 establishes requirements and provides guidance when the auditor determines key audit 2.
matters and communicates them in th e auditor’s report. When the auditor includes a Key Audit Matters 
section in the auditor’s report, this SLAuS addresses the relationship between key audit matters and any 
additional communication in the auditor’s report in accordance with this SLAuS. (Ref: Para. A1–A3) 
 SLAuS 570 (Revised)2 and SLAuS 720 (Revised)3 establishes requirements and provides guidance about 3.
communication in the auditor’s report relating to going concern and other information respectively.  
 Appendices 1 and 2 identify SLAuSs that co ntain specific requirements for the auditor to include 4.
Emphasis of Matter paragraphs or Other Matter paragraphs in the auditor’s report. In those 
circumstances, the requirements in this SLAuS regarding the form of such paragraphs apply. (Ref: Para. 
A4) 
 
Effective Date 
 This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after 31 March 2018. 5.
 
Objective 
 The objective of the auditor, having formed an opinion on the financial statements, is to draw users’ 6.
attention, when in the au ditor’s judgment it is necessary to do so, by way of clear additional 
communication in the auditor’s report, to: 
 
(a) A matter, although appropriately presented or disclosed in the financial statements, that is of such 
importance that it is fundamental to users’ understanding of the financial statements; or  
(b) As appropriate, any other matter that is relevant to users’ understanding of the audit, the auditor’s 
responsibilities or the auditor’s report.  
Definitions  
 For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below: 7.
(a) Emphasis of Matter paragraph – A paragraph included in the auditor’s report that refers to a matter 
appropriately presented or disclosed in the financial statements that, in the auditor’s judgment, is of 
such importance that it is fundamental to users’ understanding of the financial statements.  
 
(b) Other Matter paragraph – A paragraph included in the auditor’s report that refers to a matter other 
than those presented or disclosed in the financial statements that, in the audi tor’s judgment, is 
                                                           
1  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report 
2  SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern  
3  SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information 

<!-- page 292 -->

292A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
relevant to users’ understanding of the audit, the auditor’s responsibilities or the auditor’s report.  
 
Requirements 
Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report 
 If the auditor considers it necessary to draw users’ attention to a matter presented or disclosed in the 8.
financial statements that, in the auditor’s judgment, is of such importance that it is fundamental to users’ 
understanding of the financial statements, the auditor shall include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in 
the auditor’s report provided: (Ref: Para. A5–A6) 
(a) The auditor would not be required to modify the opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised) 4 
as a result of the matter; and 
(b) When SLAuS 701 applies, the matter has not been determined to be a key audit matter  to be 
communicated in the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A1–A3) 
 
 When the auditor includes an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report, the auditor shall:  9.
 
(a) Include the paragraph within a separate section of the auditor’s report with an appropri ate heading 
that includes the term ―Emphasis of Matter‖;  
(b) Include in the paragraph a clear reference to the matter being emphasized and to where relevant 
disclosures that fully describe the matter can be found in the financial statements. The paragraph 
shall refer only to information presented or disclosed in the financial statements; and  
 
(c) Indicate that the auditor’s opinion is not modified in respect of the matter emphasized. (Ref: Para. 
A7–A8, A16–A17) 
 
Other Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report 
 If t he auditor considers it necessary to communicate a matter other than those that are presented or 10.
disclosed in the financial statements that, in the auditor’s judgment, is relevant to users’ understanding of 
the audit, the auditor’s responsibilities or the auditor’s report, the auditor shall include an Other Matter 
paragraph in the auditor’s report, provided: 
(a) This is not prohibited by law or regulation; and 
(b) When SLAuS 701 applies, the matter has not been determined to be a key audit matter to be 
communicated in the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A9–A14) 
 When the auditor includes an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report, the auditor shall include the 11.
paragraph within a separate section with the heading ―Other Matter,‖ or other appropriate heading. (Ref : 
Para. A15–A17) 
 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance 
 If the auditor expects to include an Emphasis of Matter or an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s 12.
report, the auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance regarding this  expectation and 
the wording of this paragraph. (Ref: Para. A18) 
*** 
 
                                                           
4  SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report 

<!-- page 293 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  293A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
The Relationship between Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Key Audit Matters in the Auditor’s 
Report (Ref: Para. 2, 8(b)) 
A1 Key audit matters are defined in SLAuS 701 as those matters that, in the auditor’s professional judgment, 
were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period. Key audit matters 
are selected from matters communicated with those charged w ith governance, which include significant 
findings from the audit of the financial statements of the current period. 5 Communicating key audit 
matters provides additional information to intended users of the financial statements to assist them in 
understanding those matters that, in the auditor’s professional judgment, were of most significance in the 
audit and may also assist them in understanding the entity and areas of significant management judgment 
in the audited financial statements. When SLAuS 701 app lies, the use of Emphasis of Matter paragraphs 
is not a substitute for a description of individual key audit matters. 
A2 Matters that are determined to be key audit matters in accordance with SLAuS 701 may also be, in the 
auditor’s judgment, fundamental to  users’ understanding of the financial statements. In such cases, in 
communicating the matter as a key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701, the auditor may wish 
to highlight or draw further attention to its relative importance. The auditor may do so by presenting 
the matter more prominently than other matters in the Key Audit Matters section (e.g., as the first 
matter) or by including additional information in the description of the key audit matter to indicate the 
importance of the matter to users’ understanding of the financial statements.  
A3. There may be a matter that is not determined to be a key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701 (i.e., 
because it did not require significant auditor attention), but which, in the auditor’s judgment, is fundame ntal 
to users’ understanding of the financial statements (e.g., a subsequent event). If the auditor considers it 
necessary to draw users’ attention to such a matter, the matter is included in an Emphasis of Matter 
paragraph in the auditor’s report in accordance with this SLAuS. 
 
Circumstances in Which an Emphasis of Matter Paragraph May Be Necessary (Ref: Para. 4, 8) 
A4. Appendix 1 identifies SLAuSs that contain specific requirements for the auditor to include Emphasis of 
Matter paragraphs in the auditor’s report in certain circumstances. These circumstances include:  
 When a financial reporting framework prescribed by law or regulation would be unacceptable but 
for the fact that it is prescribed by law or regulation. 
 To alert users that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a special purpose 
framework. 
 
 When facts become known to the auditor after the date of the auditor’s report and the auditor 
provides a new or amended auditor’s report (i.e., subsequent events).6  
A5. Examples of circumstances wh ere the auditor may consider it necessary to include an Emphasis of Matter 
paragraph are: 
 An uncertainty relating to the future outcome of exceptional litigation or regulatory action.  
 A significant subsequent event that occurs between the date of the fina ncial statements and the 
date of the auditor’s report.7 
                                                           
5  SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance, paragraph 16 
6  SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events, paragraphs 12(b) and 16 

<!-- page 294 -->

294A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 Early application (where permitted) of a new accounting standard that has a material effect on the 
financial statements. 
 A major catastrophe that has had, or continues to have, a significant effect on  the entity’s financial 
position.  
A6 However, a widespread use of Emphasis of Matter paragraphs may diminish the effectiveness of the 
auditor’s communication about such matters. 
Including an Emphasis of Matter Paragraph in the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 9)  
A7 The inclusion of an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report does not affect the auditor’s 
opinion. An Emphasis of Matter paragraph is not a substitute for: 
(a) A modified opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised) when required by the circumstances 
of a specific audit engagement;  
(b) Disclosures in the financial statements that the applicable financial reporting framework requires 
management to make, or that are otherwise necessary to achieve fair presentation; or  
(c) Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised)8 when a material uncertainty exists relating to 
events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on an entity’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. 
A8 Paragraphs A16–A17 provide further guidance on the placement of Emphasis of Matter paragraphs in 
particular circumstances. 
 
Other Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 10–11) 
Circumstances in Which an Other Matter Paragraph May Be Necessary  
Relevant to Users’ Understanding of the Audit 
A9 SLAuS 260 (Revised) requires the auditor to communicate with those charged with governance about 
the planned scope and timing of the audit, which includes communication about the significant risks 
identified by the auditor. 9 Although matters relating to significant risks may be  determined to be key 
audit matters, other planning and scoping matters (e.g., the planned scope of the audit, or the 
application of materiality in the context of the audit) are unlikely to be key audit matters because of 
how key audit matters are defined in SLAuS 701. However, law or regulation may require the auditor 
to communicate about planning and scoping matters in the auditor’s report, or the auditor may 
consider it necessary to communicate about such matters in an Other Matter paragraph.  
A10 In the rare circumstance where the auditor is unable to withdraw from an engagement even though the 
possible effect of an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence due to a limitation on the 
scope of the audit imposed by management is pervasive, 10 the auditor may consider it necessary to 
include an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report to explain why it is not possible for the auditor 
to withdraw from the engagement. 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                         
7  SLAuS 560, paragraph 6 
8  SLAuS 570 (Revised), paragraphs 22–23  
9  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph 15  
10  See paragraph 13(b)(ii) of SLAuS 705 (Revised) for a discussion of this circumstance. 

<!-- page 295 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  295A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Relevant to Users’ Understanding of the Auditor’s Responsibilities or the Auditor’s Report 
A11 Law, regulation or generally accepted practice in a jurisdiction may require or permit the auditor to 
elaborate on matters that provide further explanation of the auditor’s responsibilities in the audit of 
the financial statements or of the auditor’s report thereon. When the Other Matter section includes 
more than one matter that, in the auditor’s judgment, is relevant to users’ understanding of the audit, 
the auditor’s responsibilities or the auditor’s report, it may be helpful to use  different sub-headings for 
each matter.  
A12 An Other Matter paragraph does not deal with circumstances where the auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities that are in addition to the auditor’s responsibility under the SLAuSs (see Other 
Reporting Responsibilities section in SLAuS 700 (Revised) 11), or where the auditor has been asked to 
perform and report on additional specified procedures, or to express an opinion on specific matters.  
Reporting on more than one set of financial statements 
A13 An entity m ay prepare one set of financial statements in accordance with a general purpose 
framework (e.g., Sri Lanka Accounting Standards) and another set of financial statements in 
accordance with another general purpose framework (e.g., International Financial Rep orting 
Standards), and engage the auditor to report on both sets of financial statements. If the auditor has 
determined that the frameworks are acceptable in the respective circumstances, the auditor may 
include an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s r eport, referring to the fact that another set of 
financial statements has been prepared by the same entity in accordance with another general purpose 
framework and that the auditor has issued a report on those financial statements.  
Restriction on distribution or use of the auditor’s report 
A14 Financial statements prepared for a specific purpose may be prepared in accordance with a general 
purpose framework because the intended users have determined that such general purpose financial 
statements meet their financial information needs. Since the auditor’s report is intended for specific 
users, the auditor may consider it necessary in the circumstances to include an Other Matter paragraph, 
stating that the auditor’s report is intended solely for the intended u sers, and should not be distributed 
to or used by other parties. 
Including an Other Matter Paragraph in the Auditor’ s Report 
A15 The content of an Other Matter paragraph reflects clearly that such other matter is not required to be 
presented and disclosed in the financial statements. An Other Matter paragraph does not include 
information that the auditor is prohibited from providing by law, regulation or other professional 
standards, for example, ethical standards relating to confidentiality of information.  An Other Matter 
paragraph also does not include information that is required to be provided by management.  
Placement of Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report 
(Ref: Para. 9, 11) 
A16 The placement of an Emphasis o f Matter paragraph or Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report 
depends on the nature of the information to be communicated, and the auditor’s judgment as to the 
relative significance of such information to intended users compared to other elements re quired to be 
reported in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised). For example: 
                                                           
11  SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements, paragraphs 43–44  

<!-- page 296 -->

296A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs 
 When the Emphasis of Matter paragraph relates to the applicable financial reporting framework, 
including circumstances where the auditor determines tha t the financial reporting framework 
prescribed by law or regulation would otherwise be unacceptable, 12 the auditor may consider it 
necessary to place the paragraph immediately following the Basis for Opinion section to provide 
appropriate context to the auditor’s opinion.  
 When a Key Audit Matters section is presented in the auditor’s report, an Emphasis of Matter 
paragraph may be presented either directly before or after the Key Audit Matters section, based on 
the auditor’s judgment as to the relative signi ficance of the information included in the Emphasis 
of Matter paragraph. The auditor may also add further context to the heading ―Emphasis of 
Matter‖, such as ―Emphasis of Matter – Subsequent Event‖, to differentiate the Emphasis of 
Matter paragraph from the individual matters described in the Key Audit Matters section. 
Other Matter Paragraphs 
 When a Key Audit Matters section is presented in the auditor’s report and an Other Matter 
paragraph is also considered necessary, the auditor may add further context to the heading ―Other 
Matter‖, such as ―Other Matter – Scope of the Audit‖, to differentiate the Other Matter paragraph 
from the individual matters described in the Key Audit Matters section.  
 When an Other Matter paragraph is included to draw users’ atten tion to a matter relating to Other 
Reporting Responsibilities addressed in the auditor’s report, the paragraph may be included in the 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements section.  
 When relevant to all the auditor’s responsibilities or users’ understanding of the auditor’s report, 
the Other Matter paragraph may be included as a separate section following the Report on the 
Audit of the Financial Statements and the Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements.  
A17 Appendix 3 is an illustrati on of the interaction between the Key Audit Matters section, an Emphasis of 
Matter paragraph and an Other Matter paragraph when all are presented in the auditor’s report. The 
illustrative report in Appendix 4 includes an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in an auditor’s report for an 
entity other than a listed entity that contains a qualified opinion and for which key audit matters have 
not been communicated. 
 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance (Ref. Para. 12) 
The communication required by paragraph 12 enables those charged with governance to be made aware of the 
nature of any specific matters that the auditor intends to highlight in the auditor’s report, and provides them 
with an opportunity to obtain further clarification from the auditor where ne cessary. Where the inclusion of 
an Other Matter paragraph on a particular matter in the auditor’s report recurs on each successive 
engagement, the auditor may determine that it is unnecessary to repeat the communication on each 
engagement, unless otherwise required to do so by law or regulation. 
 
                                                           
12  For example, as required by SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements , paragraph 19 and SLAuS 800 (Revised), 
Special Considerations—Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks, paragraph 
14 

<!-- page 297 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  297A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Appendix 1 
(Ref:Para 4, A4) 
 
List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs  
 
This appendix identifies paragraphs in other SLAuSs that require the auditor to include an Emphasis of 
Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report in certain circumstances. The list is not a substitute for considering 
the requirements and related application and other explanatory material in SLAuSs.  
 SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements – paragraph 19(b) 
 SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events – paragraphs 12(b) and 16  
 SLAuS 800 (Revised), Special Considerations —Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance 
 with Special Purpose Frameworks – paragraph 14 
 
Appendix 2 
(Ref: Para. 4) 
List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Other Matter Paragraphs 
This appendix identifies paragraphs in other SLAuSs that require the auditor to include an Other Matter 
paragraph in the auditor’s report in certain circumstances. The list is not a substitute for considering the 
requirements and related application and other explanatory material in SLAuSs.  
 SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events – paragraphs 12(b) and 16 
 SLAuS 710, Comparative Information —Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements – 
paragraphs 13–14, 16–17 and 19 
 
 
Appendix 3 
(Ref: Para A17) 
 
Refer the Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 700 (Revised) illustrative reports for the localized reports 
 
Illustration of an Independent Auditor’s Report that Includes a Key Audit Matters Section, an Emphasis of 
Matter Paragraph, and an Other Matter Paragraph 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentation 
framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 6001 does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
                                                           
1  SLAuS 600, Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors) 

<!-- page 298 -->

298A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of managem ent’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., ―clean‖) opinion is appropriate based on the audit 
evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does 
not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 Between the date of the financial statements and the date of the auditor’s report, there was a fire in 
the entity’s production facilities, which was disclosed by the entity as a subsequent event. In the 
auditor’s judgment, the matter is of such importance that it is fundamental to users’ understanding 
of the financial statements. The matter did not require significant auditor attention in the audit of 
the financial statements in the current period. 
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report and 
has not identified a material misstatement of the other information. 
 Corresponding figures are presented, and the prior period’s financial statements were audited by a 
predecessor auditor. The auditor is not prohibited by law or regulation from referring to the 
predecessor auditor’s report on the corresponding figures and has decided to do so. 
 Those re sponsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities 
required under local law. 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements2 
 
Opinion  
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the stat ement of 
financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of ,( or present fairly in all 
material respects ) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its financial 
performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
 
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the  Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
                                                           
2  The sub -title ―Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements‖ is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title 
―Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements‖ is not applicable. 

<!-- page 299 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  299A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by CA Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka Code) , and we have fulfilled our other ethical respons ibilities in 
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
 
Emphasis of Matter3 
We draw attention to Note X of the financial statements, which descr ibes the effects  of a fire in the 
Company’s production facilities. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit 
of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters. 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701.] 
 
Other Matter 
The financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X0, were audited by another 
auditor who expressed an unmodified opinion on those statements on March 31, 20X1.  
Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as ―Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖] 
 
[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised).] 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements 4 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
CA Sri Lanka Membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing the independent 
auditor’s report is [number].  
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit firm address]  
 
[Date]
                                                           
3 As noted in paragraph A16, an Emphasis of Matter paragraph may be presented eith er directly before or after the Key Audit 
Matters section based on the auditor’s judgment as to the relative significance of the information included in the Emphasis o f 
Matter paragraph.  
4  Throughout these illustrative auditor’s reports, the terms manage ment and those charge d with governance may need to be 
replaced by another term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.  

<!-- page 300 -->

300A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Appendix 4 
(Ref:Para.A8) 
 
Refer the Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 700 (Revised) illustrative reports for the localized reports 
 
Illustration of an Independent Auditor’s Report Containing a Qualified Opinion Due to a Departure 
from the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework and that Includes an Empha sis of Matter 
Paragraph 
 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using a fair 
presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the descriptio n of management’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 A departure from the applicable financial reporting framework resulted in a qualified opinion.  
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does 
not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised). 
 Between the date of the financial statements and the date of the auditor’s report, there was a fire in 
the entity’s production facilities, which was disclosed by the entity as a subsequent event. In the 
auditor’s judgment, the matter is of such importance that it is fundamental to users’ understanding 
of the financial statements. The matter did not require significant auditor attention in the audit of 
the financial statements in the current period. 
 The auditor is not requ ired, and has otherwise not decided, to communicate key audit matters in 
accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has not obtained any other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements di ffer from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities 
required under local law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 301 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  301A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements1 
Qualified Opinion 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement of 
financial position as at December  31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion  section of our 
report, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair 
view of) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its financial performance 
and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards  
Basis for Qualified Opinion 
The Company’s short -term marketable securities are carried in the statement of fi nancial position at xxx. 
Management has not marked these securities to market but has instead stated them at cost, which constitutes a 
departure from Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. The Company’s records indicate that had management 
marked the marketable securities to market, the Company would have recognized an unrealized loss of xxx in 
the statement of comprehensive income for the year. The carrying amount of the securities in the statement of 
financial position would have been reduced by the same amount at December 31, 20X1, and income tax, net 
income and shareholders’ equity would have been reduced by xxx, xxx and xxx, respectively.  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) . Our responsibilities 
under those standard s are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by CA Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka Code) , and we have fulfi lled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified opinion. 
Emphasis of Matter – Effects of a Fire  
We draw a ttention to Note X of the financial statements, which describes the effects  of a fire in the 
Company’s production facilities. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Fi nancial Statements2 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
                                                           
1  The sub -title ―Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements‖ is unnecessary in c ircumstances when the second sub -title 
―Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements‖ is not applicable. 
2  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 302 -->

302A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [audit firm address]   
[Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 303 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  303A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 720 (REVISED) 
THE AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO OTHER INFORMATION 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods  
ending on or after 31 March 2018) 
CONTENTS 
Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS  …………………………………………….………………………..  1–9 
Effective Date ………………………………………………...…………………………….  10 
Objectives  ...........................................................................................................................    11 
Definitions  ...........................................................................................................................    12 
Requirements 
Obtaining the Other Information  …………………………………………………………..  13 
Reading and Considering the Other Information  ………..………………………….…….  14–15 
Responding When a Material Inconsistency Appears to Exist or  
Other Information Appears to Be Materially Misstated …………………..…………..…  16 
Responding When the Auditor Concludes That a Material Misstatement 
of the Other Information Exists …………………………………………………………….  17–19 
Responding When a Material Misstatement in the Financial Statement  
Exists or the Auditor’s Understanding of the Entity and Its  
Environment Needs to be Updated ……………………………………..………………  20 
Reporting  ………………………………………………………………………………..  21–24 
Documentation  ……………………………………………………….…………………….  25 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Definitions  ………………………………………………………………………………. . A1–A10 
Obtaining the Other Information  …………………………………………………………  A11–A22 
Reading and Considering the Other Information  …………………………………………  A23–A38 
Responding When a Material Inconsistency Appears to Exist or Other  
Information Appears to Be Materially Misstated ………………………………….………  A39–A43 
Responding When the Auditor Concludes That a Material Misstatement  
of the Other Information Exists  ………………………………………………………….  A44–A50 
Responding When a Material Misstatement in the Financial Statement  
Exists or the Auditor’s Understanding of the Entity and Its  
Environment Needs to be Updated ……………………………………..……………….  A51 
Reporting  …………………………………………………………………………………  A52–A59 
Appendix 1: Examples of Amounts or Other Items that May Be  
Included in the Other Information  
Appendix 2: Illustrations of Auditor’s Reports Relating to Other Information  
 
 Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Respon sibilities Relating to Other 
Information, should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent 
Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards . 
 

<!-- page 304 -->

304A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to other 1.
information, whether financial or non -financial information (other than financial statements and the 
auditor’s report thereon), included in an entity’s ann ual report. An entity’s annual report may be a single 
document or a combination of documents that serve the same purpose.  
 This SLAuS is written in the context of an audit of financial statements by an independent auditor. 2.
Accordingly, the objectives of th e auditor in this SLAuS are to be understood in the context of the 
overall objectives of the auditor as stated in paragraph 11 of SLAuS 200. 1 The requirements in the 
SLAuS are designed to enable the auditor to achieve the objectives specified in the SLAuSs , and 
thereby the overall objectives of the auditor. The auditor’s opinion on the financial statements does not 
cover the other information, nor does this SLAuS require the auditor to obtain audit evidence beyond 
that required to form an opinion on the financial statements. 
 This SLAuS requires the auditor to read and consider the other information because other information 3.
that is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or the auditor’s knowledge obtained in the 
audit may indicate that there i s a material misstatement of the financial statements or that a material 
misstatement of the other information exists, either of which may undermine the credibility of the 
financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon. Such material misstatements m ay also 
inappropriately influence the economic decisions of the users for whom the auditor’s report is prepared.  
 This SLAuS may also assist the auditor in complying with relevant ethical requirements 2 that require the 4.
auditor to avoid being knowingly assoc iated with information that the auditor believes contains a 
materially false or misleading statement, statements or information furnished recklessly, or omits or 
obscures information required to be included where such omission or obscurity would be mislead ing. 
 Other information may include amounts or other items that are intended to be the same as, to 5.
summarize, or to  provide greater detail, about amounts or other items in the financial statements, and 
other amounts or other items about which the auditor ha s obtained knowledge in the audit. Other 
information may also include other matters.  
 The auditor’s responsibilities relating to other information (other than applicable reporting 6.
responsibilities) apply regardless of whether the other information is obtai ned by the auditor prior to, or 
after, the date of the auditor’s report. 
 This SLAuS does not apply to: 7.
(a) Preliminary announcements of financial information; or 
(b) Securities offering documents, including prospectuses.  
 The auditor’s responsibilities under this SLAuS do not constitute an assurance engagement on other 8.
information or impose an obligation on the auditor to obtain assurance about the other information.  
 Law or regulation may impose additional obligations on the auditor in relation to other informatio n that 9.
are beyond the scope of this SLAuS.  
 
Effective Date  
 This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after 31 March 2018. 10.
                                                           
1  SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of th e Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka 
Standards on Auditing 
2  Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code), paragraph 110.2   

<!-- page 305 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  305A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
Objectives 
 The objectives of the auditor, having read the other information, are: 11.
 To consider whether there is a material inconsistency between the other information and the financial 
statements; 
(a) To consider whether there is a material inconsistency between the other information and the 
auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit;  
(b) To respond a ppropriately when the auditor identifies that such material inconsistencies appear to 
exist, or when the auditor otherwise becomes aware that other information appears to be materially 
misstated; and  
(c) To report in accordance with this SLAuS. 
 
Definitions 
 For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:  12.
(a) Annual report – A document, or combination of documents, prepared typically on an annual basis  
by management or those charged with governance in accordance with law, regulat ion or custom, 
the purpose of which is to provide owners (or similar stakeholders) with information on the entity’s 
operations and the entity’s financial results and financial position as set out in the financial 
statements. An annual report contains or ac companies the financial statements and the auditor’s 
report thereon and usually includes information about the entity’s developments, its future outlook 
and risks and uncertainties, a statement by the entity’s governing body, and reports covering 
governance matters. (Ref: Para. A1–A5) 
(b) Misstatement of the other information – A misstatement of the other information exists when the 
other information is incorrectly stated or otherwise misleading (including because it omits or 
obscures information necessary for a proper understanding of a matter disclosed in the other 
information). (Ref: Para. A6–A7) 
(c) Other information – Financial or non-financial information (other than financial statements and the 
auditor’s report thereon) included in an entity’s annual report. (Ref: Para. A8–A10) 
Requirements 
 
Obtaining the Other Information 
 The auditor shall: (Ref: Para. A11–A22)  13.
(a) Determine, through discussion with management, which document(s) comprises the annual report, 
and the entity’s planned manner and timing of the issuance of such document(s); 
(b) Make appropriate arrangements with management to obtain in a timely manner and, if possible, 
prior to the date of the auditor’s report, the final version of the document(s) comprising the annual 
report; and  
(c) When some or all of the  document(s) determined in (a) will not be available until after the date of 
the auditor’s report, request management to provide a written representation that the final version of 
the document(s) will be provided to the auditor when available, and prior to  its issuance by the 
entity, such that the auditor can complete the procedures required by this SLAuS. (Ref: Para. A22)  

<!-- page 306 -->

306A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Reading and Considering the Other Information 
 The auditor shall read the other information and, in doing so shall: (Ref: Para. A23–A24) 14.
(a) Consider whether there is a material inconsistency between the other information and the financial 
statements. As the basis for this consideration, the auditor shall, to evaluate their consistency, 
compare selected amounts or other items in the other infor mation (that are intended to be the same 
as, to summarize, or to provide greater detail about, the amounts or other items in the financial 
statements) with such amounts or other items in the financial statements; and (Ref: Para. A25–A29) 
(b) Consider whether there is a material inconsistency between the other information and the auditor’s 
knowledge obtained in the audit, in the context of audit evidence obtained and conclusions reached 
in the audit. (Ref: Para. A30–A36) 
 While reading the other information in ac cordance with paragraph 14, the auditor shall remain alert for 15.
indications that the other information not related to the financial statements or the auditor’s knowledge 
obtained in the audit appears to be materially misstated. (Ref: Para. A24, A37–A38) 
Responding When a Material Inconsistency Appears to Exist or Other Information Appears to Be 
Materially Misstated  
 If the auditor identifies that a material inconsistency appears to exist (or becomes aware that the other 16.
information appears to be materially m isstated), the auditor shall discuss the matter with management 
and, if necessary, perform other procedures to conclude whether: (Ref: Para. A39–A43) 
(a) A material misstatement of the other information exists;  
(b) A material misstatement of the financial statements exists; or 
(c) The auditor’s understanding of the entity and its environment needs to be updated.  
Responding When the Auditor Concludes That a Material Misstatement of the Other Information 
Exists 
 If the auditor concludes that a material misstatement of th e other information exists, the auditor shall 17.
request management to correct the other information. If management: 
(a) Agrees to make the correction, the auditor shall determine that the correction has been made; or  
(b) Refuses to make the correction, the auditor shall communicate the matter with those charged with 
governance and request that the correction be made.  
 If the auditor concludes that a material misstatement exists in other information obtained prior to the 18.
date of the auditor’s report, and the other in formation is not corrected after communicating with those 
charged with governance, the auditor shall take appropriate action, including: (Ref: Para. A44) 
(a) Considering the implications for the auditor’s report and communicating with those charged with 
governance about how the auditor plans to address the material misstatement in the auditor’s report 
(see paragraph 22(e)(ii)); or (Ref: Para. A45)  
(b) Withdrawing from the engagement, where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or 
regulation. (Ref: Para. A46–A47) 
 If the auditor concludes that a material misstatement exists in other information obtained after the date 19.
of the auditor’s report, the auditor shall:  
(a) If the other information is corrected, perform the procedures necessary in the circumstances; or 
(Ref: Para. A48)  

<!-- page 307 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  307A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(b) If the other information is not corrected after communicating with those charged with governance, 
take appropriate action considering the auditor’s legal rights and obligations, to seek to have the 
uncorrected material misstatement appropria tely brought to the attention of users for whom the 
auditor’s report is prepared. (Ref: Para. A49–A50) 
Responding When a Material Misstatement in the Financial Statements Exists or the Auditor’s 
Understanding of the Entity and Its Environment Needs to Be Updated 
20 If, as a result of performing the procedures in paragraphs 14 –15, the auditor concludes that a material 
misstatement in the financial statements exists or the auditor’s understanding of the entity and its 
environment needs to be updated, the audi tor shall respond appropriately in accordance with the other 
SLAuSs. (Ref: Para. A51) 
Reporting 
21. The auditor’s report shall include a separate section with a heading ―Other Information‖, or other 
appropriate heading, when, at the date of the auditor’s report: 
(a) For an audit of financial statements of a listed entity, the auditor has obtained, or expects to obtain, 
the other information; or 
(b) For an audit of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity, the auditor has obtained 
some or all of the other information. (Ref: Para. A52)  
22. When the auditor’s report is required to include an Other Information section in accordance with 
paragraph 21, this section shall include: (Ref: Para. A53) 
(a) A statement that management is responsible for the other information; 
(b) An identification of: 
i. Other information, if any, obtained by the auditor prior to the date of the auditor’s report; and 
ii. For an audit of financial statements of a listed entity, other information, if any, expected to be 
obtained after the date of the auditor’s report;  
(c) A statement that the auditor’s opinion does not cover the other information and, accordingly, that 
the auditor does not express (or will not express) an audit opinion or any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon; 
(d) A description of the auditor’s responsibilities relating to reading, considering and reporting on other 
information as required by this SLAuS; and 
(e) When other information has been obtained prior to the date of the auditor’s report, either:  
i. A statement that the auditor has nothing to report; or  
ii.  If the auditor has concluded that there is an uncorrected material misstatement of the other 
information, a statement that describes the uncorrected material misstatement of the other 
information.  
23. When the a uditor expresses a qualified or adverse opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised), 3 
the auditor shall consider the implications of the matter giving rise to the modification of opinion for the 
statement required in paragraph 22(e). (Ref: Para. A54–A58) 
                                                           
3  SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report 

<!-- page 308 -->

308A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Reporting Prescribed by Law or Regulation 
24. If the auditor is required by law or regulation of a specific jurisdiction to refer to the other information 
in the auditor’s report using a specific layout or wording, the auditor’s report shall refer to Sri Lan ka 
Auditing Standards only if the auditor’s report includes, at a minimum: (Ref: Para. A59)  
(a) Identification of the other information obtained by the auditor prior to the date of the auditor’s 
report;  
(b) A description of the auditor’s responsibilities with respect to the other information; and 
(c) An explicit statement addressing the outcome of the auditor’s work for this purpose.  
 
Documentation 
25. In addressing the requirements of SLAuS 230 4 as it applies to this SLAuS, the auditor shall include in 
the audit documentation:  
(a) Documentation of the procedures performed under this SLAuS; and 
(b) The final version of the other information on which the auditor has performed the work required 
under this SLAuS. 
*** 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Definitions 
Annual Report (Ref: Para. 12(a)) 
A1. Law, regulation or custom may define the content of an annual report, and the name by which it is to be 
referred, for entities in a particular jurisdiction; however, the content and the name may vary within a 
jurisdiction and from one jurisdiction to another.  
A2. An annual report is typically prepared on an annual basis. However, when the financial statements being 
audited are prepared for a period less than or more than a year, an annual report may also be prepared that 
covers the same period as the financial statements.  
A3. In some cases, an entity’s annual report may be a single document and referred to by the title ―annual 
report‖ or by some other title. In other cases, law, regulation or custom may require the entity to report to 
owners (or similar stakeholders) information on the entity’s operations and the entity’s financial results 
and financial position as set out in the financial statements (i.e., an annual report) by way of a single 
document, or by way of two or more separate docum ents that in combination serve the same purpose. For 
example, depending on law, regulation or custom in a particular jurisdiction, one or more of the following 
documents may form part of the annual report: 
 Management report, management commentary, or opera ting and financial review or similar 
reports by those charged with governance (for example, a directors’ report).  
 Chairman’s statement. 
 Corporate governance statement. 
 Internal control and risk assessment reports. 
                                                           
4  SLAuS 230, Audit Documentation, paragraphs 8–11 

<!-- page 309 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  309A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
A4. An annual report may be made availabl e to users in printed form, or electronically, including on the 
entity’s website. A document (or combination of documents) may meet the definition of an annual 
report, irrespective of the manner in which it is made available to users.  
A5. An annual report  is different in nature, purpose and content from other reports, such as a report 
prepared to meet the information needs of a specific stakeholder group or a report prepared to comply 
with a specific regulatory reporting objective (even when such a report is required to be publicly 
available). Examples of reports that, when issued as standalone documents, are not typically part of 
the combination of documents that comprise an annual report (subject to law, regulation or custom), 
and that, therefore, are not other information within the scope of this SLAuS, include: 
 Separate industry or regulatory reports (for example, capital adequacy reports), such as may be 
prepared in the banking, insurance, and pension industries. 
 Corporate social responsibility reports. 
 Sustainability reports. 
 Diversity and equal opportunity reports. 
 Product responsibility reports. 
 Labor practices and working conditions reports. 
 Human rights reports. 
 
Misstatement of the Other Information (Ref: Para. 12(b)) 
A6. When a particular matter is di sclosed in the other information, the other information may omit or obscure 
information that is necessary for a proper understanding of that matter. For example, if the other 
information purports to address the key performance indicators used by management , then omission of a 
key performance indicator used by management could indicate that the other information is misleading.  
A7. The concept of materiality may be discussed in a framework applicable to the other information and, if so, 
such a framework may provide a frame of reference for the auditor in making judgments about materiality 
under this SLAuS. In many cases, however, there may be no applicable framework that includes a 
discussion of the concept of materiality as it applies to the other information. In  such circumstances, the 
following characteristics provide the auditor with a frame of reference in determining if a misstatement of 
the other information is material: 
 Materiality is considered in the context of the common information needs of users as a g roup. The 
users of the other information are expected to be the same as the users of the financial statements as 
such users may be expected to read the other information to provide context to the financial 
statements.  
 Judgments about materiality take into  account the specific circumstances of the misstatement, 
considering whether users would be influenced by the effect of the uncorrected misstatement. Not 
all misstatements will influence the economic decisions of users. 
 Judgments about materiality involve both qualitative and quantitative considerations. Accordingly, 
such judgments may take into account the nature or magnitude of the items that the other 
information addresses in the context of the entity’s annual report. 
 

<!-- page 310 -->

310A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Other Information (Ref: Para. 12(c)) 
A8. Appendix 1 contains examples of amounts or other items that may be included in the other 
information.  
A9. In some cases, the applicable financial reporting framework may require specific disclosures but 
permit them to be located outside of the finan cial statements.5 As such disclosures are required by the 
applicable financial reporting framework, they form part of the financial statements. Accordingly, 
they do not constitute other information for the purpose of this SLAuS.  
A10 eXtensible Business Re porting Language (XBRL) tags do not represent other information as defined 
in this SLAuS. 
 
Obtaining the Other Information (Ref: Para. 13) 
A11. Determining the document(s) that is or comprises the annual report is often clear based on law, 
regulation or cu stom. In many cases, management or those charged with governance may have 
customarily issued a package of documents that together comprise the annual report, or may have 
committed to do so. In some cases, however, it may not be clear which document(s) is o r comprises 
the annual report. In such cases, the timing and purpose of the documents (and for whom they are 
intended) are matters that may be relevant to the auditor’s determination of which document(s) is or 
comprises the annual report. 
A12. When the annual report is translated into other languages pursuant to law or regulation (such as may 
occur when a jurisdiction has more than one official language), or when multiple ―annual reports‖ are 
prepared under different legislation (for example, when an entity  is listed in more than one 
jurisdiction), consideration may need to be given as to whether one, or more than one of the ―annual 
reports‖ form part of the other information. Local law or regulation may provide further guidance in 
this respect. 
A13. Management, or those charged with governance, is responsible for preparing the annual report. The 
auditor may communicate with management or those charged with governance: 
 The auditor’s expectations in relation to obtaining the final version of the annual report 
(including a combination of documents that together comprise the annual report) in a timely 
manner prior to the date of the auditor’s report such that the auditor can complete the procedures 
required by this SLAuS before the date of the auditor’s report, o r if that is not possible, as soon 
as practicable and in any case prior to the entity’s issuance of such information.  
 The possible implications when the other information is obtained after the date of the auditor’s 
report 
A14 The communications referred to in paragraph A13 may be particularly appropriate for example: 
 In an initial audit engagement. 
 When there has been a change in management or those charged with governance.  
                                                           
5  For example, Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS) 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, permits certain disclosures 
required by the SLFRSs to either be given in the financial stat ements or incorporated by cross -reference from the financial 
statements to some other statement, such as a management commentary or risk report, that is available to users of the financi al 
statements on the same terms as the financial statements and at the same time. 

<!-- page 311 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  311A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 When other information is expected to be obtained after the date of the auditor’s re port. 
A15 Where those charged with governance are to approve the other information prior to its issuance by the 
entity, the final version of such other information is the one that has been approved by those charged 
with governance for issuance. 
A16 In some cases, the entity’s annual report may be a single document to be released, in accordance with 
law or regulation or the entity’s reporting practice, shortly after the entity’s financial reporting period 
such that it is available to the auditor prior to the  date of the auditor’s report. In other cases, such a 
document may not be required to be released until a later time, or at a time of the entity’s choosing. 
There may also be circumstances when the entity’s annual report is a combination of documents, each  
subject to different requirements or reporting practice by the entity with respect to the timing of their 
release. 
A17 There may be circumstances when, at the date of the auditor’s report, the entity is considering the 
development of a document that may b e part of the entity’s annual report (for example, a voluntary 
report to stakeholders) but management is unable to confirm to the auditor the purpose or timing of 
such a document. If the auditor is unable to ascertain the purpose or timing of such a docume nt, the 
document is not considered other information for purposes of this SLAuS. 
A18 Obtaining the other information in a timely manner prior to the date of the auditor’s report enables 
any revisions that are found to be necessary to be made to the financi al statements, the auditor’s 
report, or the other information prior to their issuance. The audit engagement letter 6 may make 
reference to an agreement with management to make available to the auditor the other information in 
a timely manner, and if possible prior to the date of the auditor’s report.  
A19 When other information is only made available to users via the entity’s website, the version of the 
other information obtained from the entity, rather than directly from the entity’s website, is the 
relevant document on which the auditor would perform procedures in accordance with this SLAuS. 
The auditor has no responsibility under this SLAuS to search for other information, including other 
information that may be on the entity’s website, nor to perform any procedures to confirm that other 
information is appropriately displayed on the entity’s website o 
A20 The auditor is not precluded from dating or issuing the auditor’s report if the auditor has not obtained 
some or all of the other information.  
A21 When t he other information is obtained after the date of the auditor’s report, the auditor is not 
required to update the procedures performed in accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7 of SLAuS 560. 7  
A22 SLAuS 580 8 establishes requirements and provides guidance on t he use of written representations. 
The written representation required to be requested by paragraph 13(c) regarding other information 
that will be available only after the date of the auditor’s report is intended to support the auditor’s 
ability to complet e the procedures required by this SLAuS with respect to such information. In 
addition, the auditor may find it useful to request other written representations, for example, that:  
 Management has informed the auditor of all the documents that it expects to i ssue that may 
comprise other information; 
                                                           
6  SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements, paragraph A24 
7  SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events 
8  SLAuS 580, Written Representations 

<!-- page 312 -->

312A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 The financial statements and any other information obtained by the auditor prior to the date of the 
auditor’s report are consistent with one another, and the other information does not contain any 
material misstatements; and 
 With regard to other information that has not been obtained by the auditor prior to the date of the 
auditor’s report, that management intends to prepare and issue such other information and the 
expected timing of such issuance. 
 
Reading and Considering the Other Information (Ref: Para. 14–15) 
A23 The auditor is required by SLAuS 200 9 to plan and perform the audit with professional skepticism. 
Maintaining professional skepticism when reading and considering the other information includes, for 
example, recognizing that management may be overly optimistic about the success of its plans, and 
being alert to information that may be inconsistent with:  
(a) The financial statements; or 
 
(b) The auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit.  
A24 In accordance with SL AuS 220, 10 the engagement partner is required to take responsibility for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the audit engagement in compliance with professional 
standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. In the context of this SL AuS, factors that 
may be taken into account when determining the appropriate engagement team members to address 
the requirements of paragraphs 14–15, include: 
 The relative experience of engagement team members.  
 Whether the engagement team members to be as signed the tasks have the relevant knowledge 
obtained in the audit to identify inconsistencies between the other information and that 
knowledge.  
 The degree of judgment involved in addressing the requirements of paragraph 14 –15. For 
example, performing pro cedures to evaluate the consistency of amounts in the other information 
that are intended to be the same as amounts in the financial statements may be carried out by less 
experienced engagement team members.  
 Whether, in the case of a group audit, it is ne cessary to make inquiries of a component auditor in 
addressing the other information related to that component. 
 
Considering Whether There Is a Material Inconsistency between the Other Information and the Financial 
Statements (Ref: Para. 14(a)) 
A25 Other i nformation may include amounts or other items that are intended to be the same as, to 
summarize, or to provide greater detail about, the amounts or other items in the financial statements. 
Examples of such amounts or other items may include: 
 Tables, charts or graphs containing extracts of the financial statements. 
 A disclosure providing greater detail about a balance or account shown in the financial 
statements, such as ―Revenue for 20X1 comprised XXX million from product X and YYY 
million from product Y.‖ 
                                                           
9 SLAuS 200, paragraph 15 
10  SLAuS 220, Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements, paragraph 15(a) 

<!-- page 313 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  313A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 Descriptions of the financial results, such as ― Total research and development expense was XXX 
in 20X1.‖ 
A26 In evaluating the consistency of selected amounts or other items in the other information with the 
financial statements, the auditor is not require d to compare all amounts or other items in the other 
information that are intended to be the same as, to summarize, or to provide greater detail about, the 
amounts or other items in the financial statements, with such amounts or other items in the financia l 
statements.  
A27 Selecting the amounts or other items to compare is a matter of professional judgment. Factors relevant 
to this judgment include: 
 The significance of the amount or other item in the context in which it is presented, which may 
affect the i mportance that users would attach to the amount or other item (for example, a key 
ratio or amount). 
 If quantitative, the relative size of the amount compared with accounts or items in the financial 
statements or the other information to which they relate. 
 The sensitivity of the particular amount or other item in the other information, for example, share 
based payments for senior management. 
A28 Determining the nature and extent of procedures to address the requirement in paragraph 14(a) is a 
matter of profe ssional judgment, recognizing that the auditor’s responsibilities under this SLAuS do 
not constitute an assurance engagement on the other information or impose an obligation to obtain 
assurance about the other information. Examples of such procedures include: 
 For information that is intended to be the same as information in the financial statements, 
comparing the information to the financial statements. 
 For information intended to convey the same meaning as disclosures in the financial statements, 
comparing the words used and considering the significance of differences in wording used and 
whether such differences imply different meanings. 
 Obtaining a reconciliation between an amount within the other information and the financial 
statements from management and: 
o Comparing items in the reconciliation to the financial statements and the other 
information; and  
o Checking whether the calculations within the reconciliation are arithmetically accurate.  
A29 Evaluating the consistency of selected amounts or other items in the other information with the 
financial statements includes, when relevant given the nature of the other information, the manner of 
their presentation compared to the financial statements.  
 
Considering Whether There Is a Material Inconsistency between  the Other Information and the Auditor’s 
Knowledge Obtained in the Audit (Ref: Para. 14(b)) 
A30 Other information may include amounts or items that are related to the auditor’s knowledge obtained 
in the audit (other than those in paragraph 14(a)). Examples of such amounts or items may include: 
 A disclosure of the units produced, or a table summarizing such production by geographical 
region. 

<!-- page 314 -->

314A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 A statement that ―The company introduced product X and product Y during the year.‖  
 A summary of the locations of the e ntity’s major operations, such as ― the entity’s major center of 
operation is in country X, and there are also operations in countries Y and Z.‖  
A31 The auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit includes the auditor’s understanding of the entity and 
its env ironment, including the entity’s internal control, obtained in accordance with SLAuS 315 
(Revised).11 SLAuS 315 (Revised) sets out the auditor’s required understanding, which includes such 
matters as obtaining an understanding of: 
(a) The relevant industry, regulatory, and other external factors; 
(b) The nature of the entity;  
(c) The entity’s selection and application of accounting policies;  
(d) The entity’s objectives and strategies; 
(e) The measurement and review of the entity’s financial performance; and 
(f) The entity’s internal control. 
A32 The auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit may also include matters that are prospective in nature. 
Such matters may include, for example, business prospects and future cash flows that the auditor 
considered when evaluating the assumpti ons used by management in performing impairment tests on 
intangible assets such as goodwill, or when evaluating management’s assessment of the entity’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. 
A33 In considering whether there is a material inconsistency bet ween the other information and the 
auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit, the auditor may focus on those matters in the other 
information that are of sufficient importance that a misstatement of the other information in relation to 
that matter could be material.  
A34 In relation to many matters in the other information, the auditor’s recollection of the audit evidence 
obtained and conclusions reached in the audit may be sufficient to enable the auditor to consider 
whether there is a material inconsisten cy between the other information and the auditor’s knowledge 
obtained in the audit. The more experienced and the more familiar with the key aspects of the audit 
the auditor is, the more likely it is that the auditor’s recollection of relevant matters will be sufficient. 
For example, the auditor may be able to consider whether there is a material inconsistency between 
the other information and the auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit in light of the auditor’s 
recollection of discussions held with manage ment or those charged with governance or findings from 
procedures carried out during the audit such as the reading of board minutes, without the need to take 
further action. 
A35 The auditor may determine that referring to relevant audit documentation or ma king inquiries of 
relevant members of the engagement team or relevant component auditors is appropriate as a basis for 
the auditor’s consideration of whether a material inconsistency exists. For example:  
 When the other information describes the planned ce ssation of a major product line and, although 
the auditor is aware of the planned cessation, the auditor may make inquiries of the relevant 
                                                           
11  SLAuS 315 (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its 
Environment, paragraphs 11–12 

<!-- page 315 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  315A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
engagement team member who performed the audit procedures in this area to support the 
auditor’s consideration of whe ther the description is materially inconsistent with the auditor’s 
knowledge obtained during the audit. 
 When the other information describes important details of a lawsuit addressed in the audit, but 
the auditor cannot recall them adequately, it may be nec essary to refer to the audit documentation 
where such details are summarized to support the auditor’s recollection. 
A36 Whether, and if so the extent to which, the auditor refers to relevant audit documentation, or makes 
inquiries of relevant members of th e engagement team or relevant component auditors is a matter of 
professional judgment. However, it may not be necessary for the auditor to refer to relevant audit 
documentation, or to make inquiries of relevant members of the engagement team or relevant 
component auditors about any matter included in the other information. 
 
Remaining Alert for Other Indications that the Other Information Appears to Be Materially Misstated (Ref: 
Para. 15) 
A37 Other information may include discussion of matters that are not r elated to the financial statements 
and may also extend beyond the auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit. For example, the other 
information may include statements about the entity’s greenhouse gas emissions.  
A38 Remaining alert for other indications t hat the other information not related to the financial statements 
or the auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit appears to be materially misstated assists the auditor 
in complying with relevant ethical requirements that require the auditor to avoid bein g knowingly 
associated with other information that the auditor believes contains a materially false or misleading 
statement, a statement furnished recklessly, or omits or obscures necessary information such that the 
other information is misleading. 12 Remaining alert for other indications that the other information 
appears to be materially misstated could potentially result in the auditor identifying such matters as:  
 Differences between the other information and the general knowledge, apart from the knowledge  
obtained in the audit, of the engagement team member reading the other information that lead the 
auditor to believe that the other information appears to be materially misstated; or  
 An internal inconsistency in the other information that leads the auditor  to believe that the other 
information appears to be materially misstated.  
 
Responding When a Material Inconsistency Appears to Exist or Other Information Appears to Be Materially 
Misstated (Ref: Para. 16) 
A39 The auditor’s discussion with management abou t a material inconsistency (or other information that 
appears to be materially misstated) may include requesting management to provide support for the 
basis of management’s statements in the other information. Based on management’s further 
information or e xplanations, the auditor may be satisfied that the other information is not materially 
misstated. For example, management explanations may indicate reasonable and sufficient grounds for 
valid differences of judgment. 
A40 Conversely, the discussion with man agement may provide further information that supports the 
auditor’s conclusion that a material misstatement of the other information exists. 
                                                           
12  CA Sri Lanka Code, paragraph 110.2 

<!-- page 316 -->

316A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
A41 It may be more difficult for the auditor to challenge management on matters of judgment than on 
those of a more factual nature. However, there may be circumstances where the auditor concludes that 
the other information contains a statement that is not consistent with the financial statements or the 
auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit. These circumstances may raise doubt about the other 
information, the financial statements, or the auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit.  
A42 As there is a wide range of possible material misstatements of the other information, the nature and 
extent of other procedures the au ditor may perform to conclude whether a material misstatement of 
the other information exists are matters of the auditor’s professional judgment in the circumstances.  
A43 When a matter is unrelated to the financial statements or the auditor’s knowledge ob tained in the 
audit, the auditor may not be able to fully assess management’s responses to the auditor’s inquiries. 
Nevertheless, based on management’s further information or explanations, or following changes made 
by management to the other information, t he auditor may be satisfied that a material inconsistency no 
longer appears to exist or that the other information no longer appears to be materially misstated. 
When the auditor is unable to conclude that a material inconsistency no longer appears to exist  or that 
the other information no longer appears to be materially misstated, the auditor may request 
management to consult with a qualified third party (for example, a management’s expert or legal 
counsel). In certain cases, after considering the responses  from management’s consultation, the 
auditor may not be able to conclude whether or not a material misstatement of the other information 
exists. Actions the auditor may then take include one or more of the following: 
 Obtaining advice from the auditor’s legal counsel; 
 Considering the implications for the auditor’s report for example, whether to describe the 
circumstances when there is a limitation imposed by management; or 
 Withdrawing from the audit, where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or regul ation. 
 
Responding When the Auditor Concludes That a Material Misstatement of the Other Information Exists  
Responding When the Auditor Concludes That a Material Misstatement Exists in Other Information 
Obtained prior to the Date of the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 18) 
A44 The actions the auditor takes if the other information is not corrected after communicating with those 
charged with governance are a matter of the auditor’s professional judgment. The auditor may take 
into account whether the rationale gi ven by management and those charged with governance for not 
making the correction raises doubt about the integrity or honesty of management or those charged 
with governance, such as when the auditor suspects an intention to mislead. The auditor may also 
consider it appropriate to seek legal advice. In some cases, the auditor may be required by law, 
regulation or other professional standards to communicate the matter to a regulator or relevant 
professional body.  
Reporting Implications (Ref: Para. 18(a)) 
A45 In rare circumstances, a disclaimer of opinion on the financial statements may be appropriate when 
the refusal to correct the material misstatement of the other information casts such doubt on the 
integrity of management and those charged with governance as to call into question the reliability of 
audit evidence in general.  

<!-- page 317 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  317A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Withdrawal from the Engagement (Ref: Para. 18(b)) 
A46 Withdrawal from the engagement, where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or regulation, 
may be appropriate when the circu mstances surrounding the refusal to correct the material 
misstatement of the other information cast such doubt on the integrity of management and those 
charged with governance as to call into question the reliability of representations obtained from them 
during the audit.  
Considerations specific to public sector entities (Ref: Para. 18(b)) 
A47 In the public sector, withdrawal from the engagement may not be possible. In such cases, the auditor 
may issue a report to the legislature providing details of the m atter or may take other appropriate 
actions. 
 
Responding When the Auditor Concludes That a Material Misstatement Exists in Other Information 
Obtained after the Date of the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 19) 
A48 If the auditor concludes that a material missta tement exists in other information obtained after the 
date of the auditor’s report, and such a material misstatement has been corrected, the auditor’s 
procedures necessary in the circumstances include determining that the correction has been made (in 
accordance with paragraph 17(a)) and may include reviewing the steps taken by management to 
communicate with those in receipt of the other information, if previously issued, to inform them of 
the revision. 
A49 If those charged with governance do not agree to re vise the other information, taking appropriate 
action to seek to have the uncorrected misstatement appropriately brought to the attention of users for 
whom the auditor’s report is prepared requires the exercise of professional judgment, and may be 
affected by relevant law or regulation in the jurisdiction. Accordingly, the auditor may consider it 
appropriate to seek legal advice about the auditor’s legal rights and obligations.  
A50 When a material misstatement of the other information remains uncorrected, appropriate actions that 
the auditor may take to seek to have the uncorrected material misstatement appropriately brought to 
the attention of users for whom the auditor’s report is prepared, when permitted by law or regulation, 
include, for example:  
 Providing a new or amended auditor’s report to management including a modified section in 
accordance with paragraph 22, and requesting management to provide this new or amended 
auditor’s report to users for whom the auditor’s report is prepared. In doing so, th e auditor may 
need to consider the effect, if any, on the date of the new or amended auditor’s report, in view of 
the requirements of the SLAuSs or applicable law or regulation. The auditor may also review the 
steps taken by management to provide the new or amended auditor’s report to such users; 
 Bringing the material misstatement of the other information to the attention of the users for 
whom the auditor’s report is prepared (for example, by addressing the matter in a general 
meeting of shareholders); 
 Communicating with a regulator or relevant professional body about the uncorrected material 
misstatement; or 
 Considering the implications for engagement continuance (see also paragraph A46).  
 

<!-- page 318 -->

318A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Responding When a Material Misstatement in the Financial Statements  Exists or the Auditor’s 
Understanding of the Entity and Its Environment Needs to Be Updated  (Ref: Para. 20) 
A51 In reading the other information, the auditor may become aware of new information that has 
implications for: 
 The auditor’s understanding of the  entity and its environment and, accordingly, may indicate the 
need to revise the auditor’s risk assessment.13  
 The auditor’s responsibility to evaluate the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and of 
uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements.14 
 The auditor’s responsibilities relating to subsequent events.15  
 
Reporting (Ref: Para. 21–24) 
A52 For an audit of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity, the auditor may consider 
that the identification in the audi tor’s report of other information that the auditor expects to obtain 
after the date of the auditor’s report would be appropriate in order to provide additional transparency 
about the other information that is subject to the auditor’s responsibilities under  this SLAuS. The 
auditor may consider it appropriate to do so, for example, when management is able to represent to 
the auditor that such other information will be issued after the date of the auditor’s report.  
 
Illustrative Statements (Ref: Para. 21–22) 
A53 Illustrative examples of the ―Other Information‖ section of the auditor's report are included in 
Appendix 2. 
 
Reporting Implications When the Auditor’s Opinion on the Financial Statements Is Qualified or Adverse 
(Ref: Para. 23) 
A54 A qualified or adver se auditor’s opinion on the financial statements may not have an impact on the 
statement required by paragraph 22(e) if the matter in respect of which the auditor’s opinion has been 
modified is not included or otherwise addressed in the other information a nd the matter does not 
affect any part of the other information. For example, a qualified opinion on the financial statements 
because of non-disclosure of directors’ remuneration as required by the applicable financial reporting 
framework may have no impli cations for the reporting required under this SLAuS. In other 
circumstances, there may be implications for such reporting as described in paragraphs A55–A58. 
Qualified Opinion Due to a Material Misstatement in the Financial Statements  
A55 In circumstances when the auditor’s opinion is qualified, consideration may be given as to whether 
the other information is also materially misstated for the same matter as, or a related matter to, the 
matter giving rise to the qualified opinion on the financial statements.  
                                                           
13 SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraphs 11, 31, and A1 
14  SLAuS 450, Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit  
15  SLAuS 560, paragraphs 10 and 14 

<!-- page 319 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  319A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
Qualified Opinion Due to Limitation of Scope 
A56 When there is a limitation of scope with respect to a material item in the financial statements, the 
auditor will not have obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence about that matter. In these 
circumstances, the auditor may be unable to conclude whether or not the amounts or other items in the 
other information related to this matter  result in a material misstatement of the other information. 
Accordingly, the auditor may need to modify the statement  required by paragraph 22(e) to refer to the 
auditor’s inability to consider management’s description of the matter in the other information in 
respect of which the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements has been qualified as explained in 
the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph. The auditor is nevertheless required to report any other 
uncorrected material misstatements of the other information that have been identified.  
Adverse Opinion  
A57 An adverse opinion on the financial statements relating to  a specific matter(s) described in the Basis 
for Adverse Opinion paragraph does not justify the omission of reporting of material misstatements of 
the other information that the auditor has identified in the auditor’s report in accordance with 
paragraph 22 (e)(ii). When an adverse opinion has been expressed on the financial statements, the 
auditor may need to appropriately modify the statement required by paragraph 22(e) for example, to 
indicate that amounts or items in the other information is materially mi sstated for the same matter as, 
or a related matter to, the matter giving rise to the adverse opinion on the financial statements.  
 
Disclaimer of Opinion 
A58 When the auditor disclaims an opinion on the financial statements, providing further details about  the 
audit, including a section to address other information may overshadow the disclaimer of opinion on 
the financial statements as a whole. Accordingly, in those circumstances, as required by SLAuS 705 
(Revised), the auditor’s report does not include a s ection addressing the reporting requirements under 
this SLAuS. 
 
Reporting Prescribed by Law or Regulation (Ref: Para. 24) 
A59 SLAuS 200 16 explains that the auditor may be required to comply with legal or regulatory 
requirements in addition to the SLAuS. Whe re this is the case, the auditor may be obliged to use a 
specific layout or wording in the auditor’s report that differs from that described in this SLAuS. 
Consistency in the auditor’s report, when the audit has been conducted in accordance with SLAuSs, 
promotes credibility in the global marketplace by making more readily identifiable those audits that 
have been conducted in accordance with globally recognized standards. When the differences 
between the legal or regulatory requirements to report with respec t to the other information and this 
SLAuS relate only to the layout and wording in the auditor’s report and, at a minimum, each of the 
elements identified in paragraph 24 is included in the auditor’s report, the auditor’s report may refer 
to Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Accordingly, in such circumstances the auditor is considered to have 
complied with the requirements of this SLAuS, even when the layout and wording used in the 
auditor’s report are specified by legal or regulatory reporting requirements.  
 
 
 
                                                           
16 SLAuS 200, paragraph A57 

<!-- page 320 -->

320A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Appendix 1 
(Ref: Para. 14, A8) 
Examples of Amounts or Other Items that May Be Included in the Other Information  
 
The following are examples of amounts and other items that may be included in other information. This list 
is not intended to be exhaustive. 
Amounts 
 Items in a summary of key financial results, such as net income, earnings per share, dividends, sales and 
other operating revenues, and purchases and operating expenses. 
 Selected operating data, such as income from continuing operations by major ope rating area, or sales by 
geographical segment or product line. 
 Special items, such as asset dispositions, litigation provisions, asset impairments, tax adjustments, 
environmental remediation provisions, and restructuring and reorganization expenses.  
 Liquidity and capital resource information, such as cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities; 
dividends; and debt, capital lease and minority interest obligations. 
 Capital expenditures by segment or division. 
 Amounts involved in, and related financial effects of, off-balance sheet arrangements. 
 Amounts involved in guarantees, contractual obligations, legal or environmental claims, and other 
contingencies. 
 Financial measures or ratios, such as gross margin, return on average capital employed, return on 
average shareholders’ equity, current ratio, interest coverage ratio and debt  
 
Other Items 
 Explanations of critical accounting estimates and related assumptions. 
 Identification of related parties and descriptions of transactions with them.  
 Articulation of the entity’s policies or approach to manage commodity, foreign exchange or interest rate 
risks, such as through the use of forward contracts, interest rate swaps, or other financial instruments.  
 Descriptions of the nature of off-balance sheet arrangements. 
 Descriptions of guarantees, indemnifications, contractual obligations, litigation or environmental 
liability cases, and other contingencies, including management’s qualitative assessments of the entity’s 
related exposures. 
 Descriptions of changes in legal or  regulatory requirements, such as new tax or environmental 
regulations, that have materially impacted the entity’s operations or fiscal position, or will have a 
material impact on the entity’s future financial prospects. 
 Management’s qualitative assessment s of the impacts of new financial reporting standards that have 
come into effect during the period, or will come into effect in the following period, on the entity’s 
financial results, financial position and cash flows.  
 General descriptions of the business environment and outlook. 
 Overview of strategy.  
 Descriptions of trends in market prices of key commodities or raw materials.  

<!-- page 321 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  321A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 Contrasts of supply, demand and regulatory circumstances between geographic regions.  
 Explanations of specific factors influencing the entity’s profitability in specific segments. 
 
Appendix 2 
(Ref: Para. 21‒22, A53) 
Refer the Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 700 (Revised) illustrative reports for the localized reports 
Illustrations of Independent Auditor’s Reports Relating to Other Information  
 Illustration 1: An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or o ther than listed, containing an 
unmodified opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the 
auditor's report and has not identified a material misstatement of the other information.  
 Illustration 2: An auditor’s re port of a listed entity containing an unmodified opinion when the auditor 
has obtained part of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report, has not identified a 
material misstatement of the other information, and expects to obtain other  information after the date of 
the auditor’s report. 
 Illustration 3: An auditor’s report of an entity other than a listed entity containing an unmodified 
opinion when the auditor has obtained part of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s  
report, has not identified a material misstatement of the other information, and expects to obtain other 
information after the date of the auditor’s report. 
 Illustration 4: An auditor’s report of a listed entity containing an unmodified opinion when the a uditor 
has obtained no other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report but expects to obtain other 
information after the date of the auditor’s report. 
 Illustration 5: An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, conta ining an 
unmodified opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the 
auditor's report and has concluded that a material misstatement of the other information exists.  
 Illustration 6: An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, containing a qualified 
opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor's report 
and there is a limitation of scope with respect to a material item in the consolida ted financial statements 
which also affects the other information. 
 Illustration 7: An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, containing an adverse 
opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor's report 
and the adverse opinion on the consolidated financial statements also affects the other information.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 322 -->

322A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements20  
Opinion 
  
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement 
of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
                                                           
17  SLAuS 600, Special Considerations–Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors) 
18  SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern  
19  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report. The Key Audit Matters section is required 
for listed entities only. 
20  The sub -title ―Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements‖ is unnecessar y in circumstances when the second sub -title 
―Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements‖ is not applicable.  
Illustration 1 – An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, 
containing an unmodif ied opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other 
information prior to the date of the auditor's report and has not identified a material 
misstatement of the other information. 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following cir cumstances are assumed: 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of any entity, whether listed or other 
than listed, using a fair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., 
SLAuS 60017 does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility 
for the financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., ―clean‖) opinion is appropriate based on 
the audit evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit Comprise the Code of 
Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtaine d, the auditor has concluded that a material 
uncertainty does not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with 
SLAuS 570 (Revised).18  
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701.19 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor's 
report and has not identified a material misstatement of the other information. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the  financial statements differ from those 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting 
responsibilities required under local law. 

<!-- page 323 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  323A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true 
and fair view of ) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its financial 
performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.  
Basis for Opinion  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) . Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by CA Sri Lanka (CA  Sri Lanka Code) , and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibiliti es in 
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
 
[Key Audit Matters21  
 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of 
the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.  
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701. ]] 
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate, such as ―Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖] 
 
Management22 is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the [information 
included in the X report,23 but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.] 
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the oth er information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.  
 
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based 
on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.  
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements 24 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised)25 – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
                                                           
21  The Key Audit Matters section is required for listed entities only. 
22  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 
23  A more specific description of the other information, such as ―the management report and chairman’s statement,‖ may be used 
to identify the other information. 
24  Throughout these illustrative auditor’s reports, th e terms management and those charge d with governance may need to be 
replaced by another term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.  
25  SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements 

<!-- page 324 -->

324A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  
 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing the independent 
auditors report is [number].26] 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit firm address],  
 
[Date] 
 
 
Illustration 2 – An auditor’s report of a listed entity containing an unmodified opinion when the 
auditor has obtained part of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report, has not 
identified a material misstatement  of the other information, and expects to obtain other information 
after the date of the auditor’s report. 
 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of a li sted entity using a fair presentation 
framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., ―clean‖) opinion is appropriate based on the audit 
evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does 
not exist related to events or conditions that may c ast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701.  
 The auditor has obtained part of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report, has 
not identified a material misstatement of the other information, and expects to obtain other 
information after the date of the auditor’s report. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from thos e responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities 
required under local law. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
26  The name of the engagement partner is included in the auditor’s report for audits of complete sets of general purpose financi al 
statements of listed entities unless, in rare circumstances, such disclosure is reasonably expected to lead to a significant personal 
security threat (see SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 46). 

<!-- page 325 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  325A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements27 
Opinion  
 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement 
of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the st atement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial  statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true 
and fair view of ) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its financial 
performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.  
 
Basis for Opinion  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) . Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial  
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by CA Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka Code) , and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements. We believ e that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
 
Key Audit Matters  
 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit 
of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.  
 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701.] 
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate, such as ―Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖] 
Management28 is responsible for the other information. The other informa tion comprises the X report 29 (but 
does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon), which we obtained prior to the 
date of this auditor’s report, and the Y report, which is expected to be made available to us after that date.  
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not and will not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.  
 
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other infor mation 
identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
                                                           
27  The sub -title ―Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements‖ is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title 
―Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements‖ is not applicable.  
28  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 
29  A more specific description of the other information, such as ―the management report and chair’s statement,‖ may be used to 
identify the other information. 

<!-- page 326 -->

326A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.  
 
If, based on the work we ha ve performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this 
auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required 
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.  
 
[When we read the Y report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and [ describe actions applicable in the 
jurisdiction.]]30 
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements31 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the e ngagement partner responsible for signing the independent 
auditors report is [number].32  
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit firm address] 
 
[Date] 
 
 
Illustration 3 – An auditor’s report of an entity other than a listed entity containing an un modified 
opinion when the auditor has obtained part of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s 
report, has not identified a material misstatement of the other information, and expects to obtain 
other information after the date of the auditor’s report. 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using a fair 
presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of managem ent’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
                                                           
30  This additional paragraph may be useful when the auditor has identified an uncorrected material misstatement of the other 
information obtained after the date of the auditor's report and has a legal obligation to take specific action in response. 
31  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction. 
32  CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner is included in the auditor’s report for audits of complete sets of 
general purpose financial statements of listed entities unless, in rare circumstances, such disclosure is reasonably expected  to 
lead to a significant personal security threat (see SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 46). 

<!-- page 327 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  327A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., ―clean‖) opinion is appropriate based on the audit 
evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does not 
exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as 
a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 The auditor is not required, and has otherwise not decided, to communicate key audit matters in 
accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained part of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report, has 
not identified a material misstatement of the other information, and expects to obtain other 
information after the date of the auditor’s report. 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible for th e 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under law or regulation.  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
 
Opinion  
We have audited t he financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement 
of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended,  and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true 
and fair view of ) the financial position of th e Company as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its financial 
performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.  
 
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by CA Sri Lanka, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our opinion.  
 
Other Information [or anot her title if appropriate, such as ―Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖]  
 
Management33 is responsible for the other information. The other information obtained at the date of this 
                                                           
33  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 328 -->

328A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
auditor’s report is [information in cluded in the X report, 34 but does not include the financial statements and 
our auditor’s report thereon] 
 
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.  
 
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.  
 
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s 
report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are re quired to report 
that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.  
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements 35 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 3 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit firm address] 
 
[Date] 
 
 
Illustration 4 – An auditor’s report of a listed entity containing an unmodified opinion when the 
auditor has obtained no other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report but expects to 
obtain other information after the date of the auditor’s report.  
 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentation 
framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 does not apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., ―clean‖) opinion is appropriate based on the audit 
evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka. 
                                                           
34  A more specific description of the other information, such as ―the management report and chair’s statement,‖ may be used to 
identify the other information. 
35  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 329 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  329A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 Based o n the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty 
does not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s 
ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised ).  
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701.  
 The auditor has obtained no other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report but expects 
to obtain other information after the date of the auditor’s report.  
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities 
required under local law. 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements36  
Opinion  
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statem ent 
of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true 
and fair view of ) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its financial 
performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.  
 
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’ s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka (CA Sri Lanka Code), and we have fulfilled our other ethical respo nsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.  
 
Key Audit Matters 
  
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional jud gment, were of most significance in our audit 
of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a se parate 
opinion on these matters.  
 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701. ] 
 
                                                           
36  The sub -title ―Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements‖ is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub -title 
―Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements‖ is not applicable.  

<!-- page 330 -->

330A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate, such as ―Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖]  
 
Management37 is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the [information 
included in the X report, 38 but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon]. 
The X report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor's report. 
 
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.  
 
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsib ility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is 
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated.  
 
[When we read the X report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and [ describe actions applicable in the 
jurisdiction].]39 
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements 40 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
CA Sri Lan ka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing the independent 
Auditor’s report is [number].  
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit firm address] 
[Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
37  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 
38  A more specific description of the other information, such as ―the management report and chair’s statement,‖ may be used to 
identify the other information. 
39  This additional paragraph may be useful when the auditor has identified an uncorrected material misstatement of the other 
information obtained after the date of the auditor's report and has a legal obligation to take specific action in response. 
40  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 331 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  331A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Illustration 5 – An auditor’s report of any entity, whether li sted or other than listed, containing an 
unmodified opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the 
auditor's report and has concluded that a material misstatement of the other information exists.  
 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, 
using a fair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., S LAuS 600 does not 
apply). 
 The financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsib ility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., ―clean‖) opinion is appropriate based on the audit 
evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does not 
exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as 
a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor's report and has 
concluded that a material misstatement of the other information exists 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 
 The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under law or regulation. 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
 
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
 
Opinion  
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the statement 
of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the  statement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
 
In our opinion, the accompanying financ ial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true 
and fair view of ) the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its financial 
performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.  
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) . Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financia l 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 

<!-- page 332 -->

332A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
issued by CA Sri Lanka  (CA Sri Lanka Code), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements. We belie ve that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate, such as ―Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖]  
Management41 is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the [information 
included in the X report,42 but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.] 
Our opinion on the financial statements does not  cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.  
 
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other inform ation is materially inconsistent with the financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.  
 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this othe r 
information, we are required to report that fact. As described below, we have concluded that such a material 
misstatement of the other information exists.  
 
[Description of material misstatement of the other information] 
 
[Key Audit Matters43  
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit 
of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in f orming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.  
 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701.]] 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements 44 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 1 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing the independent 
Auditor’s report is [number].45] 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit firm address] 
[Date] 
 
                                                           
41  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 
42  A more specific description of the other information, such as ―the management report and chairman’s statement,‖ may be used 
to identify the other information. 
43  The Key Audit Matters section is required for listed entities only. 
44  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 
45  CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner is included in the auditor’s report for audits of complete sets of 
general purpose financial statements of listed entities unl ess, in rare circumstances, such disclosure is reasonably expected to 
lead to a significant personal security threat (see SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 46). 

<!-- page 333 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  333A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Illustration 6 – An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, containing an 
qualified opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the 
auditor's report and there is a limitation of scope with respect to a material item in the consolidated  
financial statements which also affects the other information. 
 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 
 Audit of a complete set of consolidated financial statements of any entity, whether listed or oth er 
than listed, using a fair presentation framework. The audit is a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 
applies). 
 The consolidated financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
consolidated financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding an investment in a 
foreign associate. The possible effects of the inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence are 
deemed to be material but not pervasive to the consolidated financial statements (i.e., a qualified 
opinion is appropriate). 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does not 
exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as 
a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report and the 
matter giving rise to the qualified opinion on the consolidated financial statements also affects the other 
information 
 Those responsible for oversight of the consolidated financial statements differ from those 
responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. 
 
 The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under law or regulation. 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
 
Qualified Opinion 
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and its subsidiaries (the Group), 
which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated  statement of changes in equity and 
consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
 
In our opinion, except for the possible effects o f the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion 
section of our report, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material 
respects, (or give a true and fair view of ) the financial position of the Group as at Decemb er 31, 20X1, and 

<!-- page 334 -->

334A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(of) its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.  
 
Basis for Qualified Opinion 
The Group’s investment in XYZ Company, a foreign associate  acquired during the year and accounted for 
by the equity method, is carried at xxx on the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 
31, 20X1, and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net income of xxx is included in ABC’s income for the year then 
ended. We were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the carrying amount of ABC’s 
investment in XYZ as at December 31, 20X1 and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net income for the year because we 
were denied access to the financial information, manage ment, and the auditors of XYZ. Consequently, we 
were unable to determine whether any adjustments to these amounts were necessary.  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards a re further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics), and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified opinion. 
 
Other Information [or another title if appr opriate, such as ―Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖]  
Management46 is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the [information 
included in the X report, 47 but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon.] 
 
Our opinion on the consolidated  financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.  
 
In connection with our audit of t he consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.  
 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact. As described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion  section 
above, we were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence about the carrying amount of ABC’s 
investment in XYZ as at December 31, 20X1 and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net income for the year. 
Accordingly, we are unable to conclude whether or not the o ther information is materially misstated with 
respect to this matter.  
 
[Key Audit Matters48  
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit 
of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of 
our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do 
                                                           
46  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 
47  A more specific description of the other information, such as ―the management report and chairman’s statement,‖ may be used 
to identify the other information. 
48  The Key Audit Matters section is required for listed entities only. 

<!-- page 335 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  335A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
not provide a separate opinion on these matters. In addition to the matter described in the Basis for Qualified 
Opinion section we have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report. 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701. ]] 
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements49 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing the independent 
Auditor’s report is [number], 50] 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit firm address] 
 
[Date] 
 
Illustration 7 – An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, containing an 
adverse opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the 
auditor's report and the adverse opinion on the consolidated financial statements also affects the other 
information. 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 
 Audit of a complete set of consolidated financial statements of any entity, whether listed or other 
than listed, using a fair presentation framework. The audit is a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 
applies). 
 The consolidated financial statements are prepared by management of the entity in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (a general purpose framework). 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
consolidated financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The consolidated financial statements are materially misstated due to the non -consolidation of a 
subsidiary. The material misstatement is deemed to be pervasive to the consolidated financial 
statements. The effects of the misstatement on the consolidated financial statements have not been 
determined because it was not practicable to do so (i.e., an adverse opinion is appropriate). 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does not 
exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as 
a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
                                                           
49  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 
50  CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner is included in the auditor’s report for audits of complete sets of 
general purpose financial statemen ts of listed entities unless, in rare circumstances, such disclosure is reasonably expected to 
lead to a significant personal security threat (see SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 46). 

<!-- page 336 -->

336A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 Key audit matters have been communicated in accordance with SLAuS 701. 
 The auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report and the 
matter giving rise to the adverse opinion on the consolidated financial statements also affects the other 
information 
 Those responsible for oversight of the consolidated finan cial statements differ from those 
responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. 
 The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under law or regulation. 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]  
 
Adverse Opinion 
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and its subsidiaries (the Group), 
which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and 
consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
 
In our opinion, because of the significance of the matter discussed in the Basis for Adverse Opinion section 
of our report, the accompanying consolidated financial statements do not present fairly (or do not give a true 
and fair view of ) the cons olidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its 
consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
 
Basis for Adverse Opinion 
As explained in Note X, the Group has not consolidated subsidiary XYZ Company that the Group acquired 
during 20X1 because it has not yet been able to determine the fair values of certain of the subsidiary’s 
material assets and liabilities at the acquisition date. This investment is therefore accounted for on a cost 
basis. Under Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, the Group should have consolidated this subsidiary and 
accounted for the acquisition based on provisional amounts. Had XYZ Company been consolidated, many 
elements in the accompanying consolidated financial statements would have been materially affected. The 
effects on the consolidated financial statements of the failure to consolidate have not been determined.  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri La nka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka Code), and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our adverse opinion. 
 
Other Information [or another title if appropriate, such as ―Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon‖]  
Management51 is responsible for the other information. The other information comp rises the [information 
                                                           
51  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 337 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  337A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
included in the X report,52 but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon.] 
 
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.  
 
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with  the 
consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are requ ired to report that fact. As described in the Basis for 
Adverse Opinion section above, the Group should have consolidated XYZ Company and accounted for the 
acquisition based on provisional amounts. We have concluded that the other information is materially  
misstated for the same reason with respect to the amounts or other items in the X report affected by the 
failure to consolidate XYZ Company.  
 
[Key Audit Matters]53  
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signi ficance in our audit 
of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of 
our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do 
not provide a s eparate opinion on these matters. In addition to the matter described in the Basis for Adverse 
Opinion section we have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report. 
 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701.]] 
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements 54 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing the independent 
Auditor’s report is [number].55] 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit firm address] 
 
[Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
52  A more specific description of the other information, such as ―the management report and chairman’s statement,‖ may be used 
to identify the other information. 
53  The Key Audit Matters section is required for listed entities only. 
54  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework of the particular jurisdiction 
55  CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner is included in the auditor’s report for audits of complete sets of 
general purpose financial statements of listed entities unless, in rare circumstances, such disclosure is reasonably expected to 
lead to a significant personal security threat (see SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 46). 

<!-- page 338 -->

338A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 800 (REVISED) 
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS—AUDITS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SPECIAL PURPOSE FRAMEWORKS 
 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods  
ending on or after 31 March 2018) 
CONTENTS 
 
 Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS  …………………………….……………………………  1–3 
Effective Date  .............................................................................................................   4 
Objective  ....................................................................................................................   5 
Definitions  ..................................................................................................................   6–7 
Requirements 
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement  ......................................................    8 
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit  .........................................    9–10 
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations  ...................................................    11–14 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Definition of Special Purpose Framework  ..................................................................    A1–A4 
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement  ......................................................    A5–A8 
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit  .........................................    A9–A12 
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations  ...................................................    A13–A21 
Appendix: Illustrations of Independent Auditor’s Reports on Special Purpose Financial Statements  
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 800 (Revised), Special Considerations —Audits of Financial 
Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks , should be read in conjunction 
with SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor a nd the Conduct of an Audit in 
Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 339 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  339A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
1. The Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) in the 100 –700 series apply to an audit of financial 
statements. This SLAuS deals with special  considerations in the application of those SLAuSs to an audit 
of financial statements prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework.  
2. This SLAuS is written in the context of a complete set of financial statements prepared in accordance 
with a sp ecial purpose framework. SLAuS 805 (Revised) 1 deals with special considerations relevant to 
an audit of a single financial statement or of a specific element, account or item of a financial statement.  
3. This SLAuS does not override the requirements of the ot her SLAuSs; nor does it purport to deal with all 
special considerations that may be relevant in the circumstances of the engagement.  
 
Effective Date 
4. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after 31 March 2018. 
Objective 
5. The objective of the auditor, when applying SLAuSs in an audit of financial statements prepared in 
accordance with a special purpose framework, is to address appropriately the special considerations that 
are relevant to: 
(a) The acceptance of the engagement; 
(b) The planning and performance of that engagement; and 
(c) Forming an opinion and reporting on the financial statements. 
 
Definitions 
6. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:  
(a) Special purpose financial statements – Financial statements prepared in accordance with a special 
purpose framework. (Ref: Para. A4) 
(b) Special purpose framework – A financial reporting framework designed to meet the financial information 
needs of specific users. The financial reporting framework may be a fair presentation framework or a 
compliance framework.2 (Ref: Para. A1–A4) 
7. Reference to ―financial statements‖ in this SLAuS means ―a complete set of special purpose financial 
statements. The requirements of the applicable financial reporting fr amework determine the presentation 
structure, and content of the financial statements, and what constitutes a complete set of financial 
statements. Reference to ―special purpose financial statements‖ includes the related disclosures.  
                                                           
1  SLAuS 805 (Revised), Special Considerations —Audits of Single Financial Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts or 
Items of a Financial Statement 
2  SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards, paragraph 13(a) 

<!-- page 340 -->

340A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Requirements 
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement 
Acceptability of the Financial Reporting Framework 
8. SLAuS 210 requires the auditor to determine the acceptability of the financial reporting framework 
applied in the preparation of the financial statements. 3 In an audit of special purpose financial statements, 
the auditor shall obtain an understanding of: (Ref: Para. A5–A8) 
(c) The purpose for which the financial statements are prepared; 
(d) The intended users; and 
(e) The steps taken by management to determine that the applicable fin ancial reporting framework is 
acceptable in the circumstances.  
 
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit 
9. SLAuS 200 requires the auditor to comply with all SLAuSs relevant to the audit. 4 In planning and 
performing an audit of special purpose f inancial statements, the auditor shall determine whether 
application of the SLAuSs requires special consideration in the circumstances of the engagement. (Ref: 
Para. A9–A12) 
10. SLAuS 315 (Revised) requires the auditor to obtain an understanding of the entity’ s selection and 
application of accounting policies. 5 In the case of financial statements prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of a contract, the auditor shall obtain an understanding of any significant interpretations of the 
contract that managemsent  made in the preparation of those financial statements. An interpretation is 
significant when adoption of another reasonable interpretation would have produced a material difference 
in the information presented in the financial statements. 
 
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations 
11. When forming an opinion and reporting on special purpose financial statements, the auditor shall apply 
the requirements in SLAuS 700 (Revised).6 (Ref: Para. A13–A19) 
Description of the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework 
12. SLAuS 700 (Revised) requires the auditor to evaluate whether the financial statements adequately refer 
to or describe the applicable financial reporting framework. 7 In the case of financial statements prepared 
in accordance with the provisions of a cont ract, the auditor shall evaluate whether the financial 
statements adequately describe any significant interpretations of the contract on which the financial 
statements are based. 
13. SLAuS 700 (Revised) deals with the form and content of the auditor’s report, including the specific 
ordering for certain elements. In the case of an auditor’s report on special purpose financial statements:  
(a) The auditor’s report shall also describe the purpose for which the financial statements are prepared 
and, if necessary, the intended users, or refer to a note in the special purpose financial statements that 
contains that information; and 
                                                           
3  SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements, paragraph 6(a) 
4  SLAuS 200, paragraph 18 
5  SLAuS 315 (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its  
Environment, paragraph 11(c) 
6  SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements 
7  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 15 

<!-- page 341 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  341A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
(b) If management has a choice of financial reporting frameworks in the preparation of such financial 
statements, the explanation of management’s 8 responsibility for the financial statements shall also 
make reference to its responsibility for determining that the applicable financial reporting framework 
is acceptable in the circumstances. 
Alerting Readers that the Financial Statements Are Prepared in  Accordance with a Special Purpose 
Framework 
14. The auditor’s report on special purpose financial statements shall include an Emphasis of Matter 
paragraph alerting users of the auditor’s report that the financial statements are prepared in accordance 
with a s pecial purpose framework and that, as a result, the financial statements may not be suitable for 
another purpose. (Ref: Para. A20–A21) 
*** 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Definition of Special Purpose Framework (Ref: Para. 6) 
A1. Examples of special purpose frameworks are: 
 A tax basis of accounting for a set of financial statements that accompany an entity’s tax return;  
 The cash receipts and disbursements basis of accounting for cash flow information that an entity may be 
requested to prepare for creditors; 
 The financial reporting provisions established by a regulator to meet the requirements of that 
regulator; or 
 The financial reporting provisions of a contract, such as a bond indenture, a loan agreement, or a 
project grant. 
A2. There may be circ umstances where a special purpose framework is based on a financial reporting 
framework established by an authorized or recognized standards setting organization or by law or 
regulation, but does not comply with all the requirements of that framework. An e xample is a contract 
that requires financial statements to be prepared in accordance with most, but not all, of the Financial 
Reporting Standards of Jurisdiction X. When this is acceptable in the circumstances of the engagement, it 
is inappropriate for the description of the applicable financial reporting framework in the special purpose 
financial statements to imply full compliance with the financial reporting framework established by the 
authorized or recognized standards setting organization or by law or  regulation. In the above example of 
the contract, the description of the applicable financial reporting framework may refer to the financial 
reporting provisions of the contract, rather than make any reference to the Financial Reporting Standards 
of Jurisdiction X.  
A3. In the circumstances described in paragraph A2, the special purpose framework may not be a fair 
presentation framework even if the financial reporting framework on which it is based is a fair 
presentation framework. This is because the spec ial purpose framework may not comply with all the 
requirements of the financial reporting framework established by the authorized or recognized standards 
setting organization or by law or regulation that are necessary to achieve fair presentation of the fi nancial 
statements. 
A4 Financial statements prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework may be the only financial 
statements an entity prepares. In such circumstances, those financial statements may be used by users 
                                                           
8  Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 342 -->

342A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
other than those for whom th e financial reporting framework is designed. Despite the broad distribution 
of the financial statements in those circumstances, the financial statements are still considered to be 
special purpose financial statements for purposes of the SLAuSs. The require ments in paragraphs 13 –14 
are designed to avoid misunderstandings about the purpose for which the financial statements are 
prepared. Disclosures comprise explanatory or descriptive information, set out as required, expressly 
permitted or otherwise allowed by the applicable financial reporting framework, on the face of financial 
statements, or in the notes, or incorporated therein by cross-reference.9 
 
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement 
Acceptability of the Financial Reporting Framework (Ref: Para. 8) 
A5. In the case of special purpose financial statements, the financial information needs of the intended users 
are a key factor in determining the acceptability of the financial reporting framework applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements.  
A6. The applicable financial reporting framework may encompass the financial reporting standards 
established by an organization that is authorized or recognized to promulgate standards for special 
purpose financial statements. In that case, those standa rds will be presumed acceptable for that purpose if 
the organization follows an established and transparent process involving deliberation and consideration 
of the views of relevant stakeholders. In some jurisdictions, law or regulation may prescribe the f inancial 
reporting framework to be used by management in the preparation of special purpose financial statements 
for a certain type of entity. For example, a regulator may establish financial reporting provisions to meet 
the requirements of that regulator. In the absence of indications to the contrary, such a financial reporting 
framework is presumed acceptable for special purpose financial statements prepared by such entity. 
A7. Where the financial reporting standards referred to in paragraph A6 are supple mented by legislative or 
regulatory requirements, SLAuS 210 requires the auditor to determine whether any conflicts between the 
financial reporting standards and the additional requirements exist, and prescribes actions to be taken by 
the auditor if such conflicts exist.10 
A8 The applicable financial reporting framework may encompass the financial reporting provisions of a 
contract, or sources other than those described in paragraphs A6 and A7. In that case, the acceptability of 
the financial reporting frame work in the circumstances of the engagement is determined by considering 
whether the framework exhibits attributes normally exhibited by acceptable financial reporting 
frameworks as described in Appendix 2 of SLAuS 210. In the case of a special purpose fra mework, the 
relative importance to a particular engagement of each of the attributes normally exhibited by acceptable 
financial reporting frameworks is a matter of professional judgment. For example, for purposes of 
establishing the value of net assets of an entity at the date of its sale, the vendor and the purchaser may 
have agreed that very prudent estimates of allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable are 
appropriate for their needs, even though such financial information is not neutral when comp ared with 
financial information prepared in accordance with a general purpose framework.  
 
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit (Ref: Para. 9) 
A9. SLAuS 200 requires the auditor to comply with (a) relevant ethical requirements, including th ose 
pertaining to independence, relating to financial statement audit engagements, and (b) all SLAuSs 
relevant to the audit. It also requires the auditor to comply with each requirement of an SLAuS unless, 
in the circumstances of the audit, the entire SLAu S is not relevant or the requirement is not relevant 
because it is conditional and the condition does not exist. In exceptional circumstances, the auditor may 
                                                           
9  SLAuS 200, para graph 13(f) 
10  SLAuS 210, para graph 18 

<!-- page 343 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  343A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
judge it necessary to depart from a relevant requirement in a SLAuS by performing alternative aud it 
procedures to achieve the aim of that requirement.11  
A10. Application of some of the requirements of the SLAuSs in an audit of special purpose financial 
statements may require special consideration by the auditor. For example, in SLAuS 320, judgments 
about matters that are material to users of the financial statements are based on a consideration of the 
common financial information needs of users as a group. 12 In the case of an audit of special purpose 
financial statements, however, those judgments are ba sed on a consideration of the financial 
information needs of the intended users.  
A11. In the case of special purpose financial statements, such as those prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of a contract, management may agree with the intended use rs on a threshold below which 
misstatements identified during the audit will not be corrected or otherwise adjusted. The existence of 
such a threshold does not relieve the auditor from the requirement to determine materiality in 
accordance with SLAuS 320 f or purposes of planning and performing the audit of the special purpose 
financial statements. 
A12 SLAuS 260 (Revised) requires the auditor to determine the appropriate person(s) within the entity’s 
governance structure with whom to communicate.13 SLAuS 260 (Revised) notes that, in some cases, all 
of those charged governance are involved in managing the entity, and the application of the 
communication requirements is modified to recognize this position. 14 When a complete set of general 
purpose financial statements is also prepared by the entity, those person(s) responsible for the oversight 
of the preparation of the special purpose financial statements may not be the same as those charged 
with governance responsible for the oversight of the preparation of those  general purpose financial 
statements.  
 
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations (Ref: Para. 11) 
A13. The Appendix to this SLAuS contains illustrations of independent auditor’s reports on special purpose 
financial statements. Other illustrations of  auditor’s reports may be relevant to reporting on special 
purpose financial statements (see for example, the Appendices to SLAuS 700 (Revised), SLAuS 705 
(Revised),15 SLAuS 570 (Revised),16 SLAuS 720 (Revised),17 and SLAuS 706 (Revised)).18 
Application of SLAuS 700 (Revised) When Reporting on Special Purpose Financial Statements  
 
A14.  Paragraph 11 of this SLAuS explains that the auditor is required to apply SLAuS 700 (Revised) when 
forming an opinion and reporting on special purpose financial statements. In doing so, the auditor is 
also required to apply the reporting requirements in other SLAuSs and may find the special 
considerations addressed in paragraphs A15–A19 below helpful. 
 
Going Concern 
 
A15.  Special purpose financial statements may or may not be p repared in accordance with a financial 
reporting framework for which the going concern basis of accounting is relevant (e.g., the going 
concern basis of accounting is not relevant for some financial statements prepared on a tax basis in 
                                                           
11  SLAuS 200, paragraphs 14, 18, and 22–23 
12  SLAuS 320, Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit, paragraph 2 
13  SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance 
14  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph A8 
15  SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report  
16  SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern 
17  SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information 
18  SLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report  

<!-- page 344 -->

344A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
particular jurisdic tions).19 Depending on the applicable financial reporting framework used in the 
preparation of the special purpose financial statements, the description in the auditor’s report of 
management’s responsibilities 20 relating to going concern may need to be adapt ed as necessary. The 
description in the auditor’s report of the auditor’s responsibilities 21 may also need to be adapted as 
necessary depending on how SLAuS 570 (Revised) applies in the circumstances of the engagement.  
Key Audit Matters 
 
A16.  SLAuS 700 (R evised) requires the auditor to communicate key audit matters in accordance with 
SLAuS 70122 for audits of complete sets of general purpose financial statements of listed entities. For 
audits of special purpose financial statements, SLAuS 701 only applies w hen communication of key 
audit matters in the auditor’s report on the special purpose financial statements is required by law or 
regulation or the auditor otherwise decides to communicate key audit matters. When key audit matters 
are communicated in the au ditor’s report on special purpose financial statements, SLAuS 701 applies 
in its entirety.23 
Other Information  
 
A17. SLAuS 720 (Revised) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to other information. In the 
context of this SLAuS, reports containi ng or accompanying the special purpose financial statements —
the purpose of which is to provide owners (or similar stakeholders) with information on matters 
presented in the special purpose financial statements —are considered to be annual reports for the 
purpose of SLAuS 720 (Revised). In the case of financial statements prepared using a special purpose 
framework, the term ―similar stakeholders‖ includes the specific users whose financial information 
needs are met by the design of the special purpose framewo rk used to prepare the special purpose 
financial statements. When the auditor determines that the entity plans to issue such a report, the 
requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised) apply to the audit of the special purpose financial statements. 
CA Sri Lanka Membership Number of the Engagement Partner 
 
A18.  The requirement in SLAuS 700 (Revised) for the auditor to include the CA Sri Lanka membership 
number of the engagement partner in the auditor’s report also applies to audits of special purpose 
financial statements of listed entities.24 The auditor may be required by law or regulation to include the 
CA Sri Lanka membership number in the auditor’s report or may otherwise decide to do so when 
reporting on special purpose financial statements of entities other than listed entities. 
Inclusion of a Reference to the Auditor’s Report on the Complete Set of General Purpose Financial 
Statements  
 
A19. The auditor may deem it appropriate to refer, in an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report on 
the special purpose f inancial statements, to the auditor’s report on the complete set of general purpose 
financial statements or to matter(s) reported therein (see SLAuS 706 (Revised)). 25 For example, the 
auditor may consider it appropriate to refer in the auditor’s report on t he special purpose financial 
                                                           
19  SLAuS 570 (Revised), paragraph 2 
20  See SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraphs 34(b) and A48. 
21  See SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 39(b)(iv). 
22  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report  
23  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 31  
24  See SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraphs 45 and A56–A58  
25  See SLAuS 706 (Revised), paragraphs 10–11.  

<!-- page 345 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  345A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
statements to a Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section included in the auditor’s report 
on the complete set of general purpose financial statements. 
 
Alerting Readers that the Financial Statements Are Prepared in  Accordance with a Special Purpose 
Framework (Ref: Para. 14) 
A20.  The special purpose financial statements may be used for purposes other than those for which they 
were intended. For example, a regulator may require certain entities to place the special p urpose 
financial statements on public record. To avoid misunderstandings, the auditor alerts users of the 
auditor’s report by including an Emphasis of Matter paragraph explaining that the financial statements 
are prepared in accordance with a special purpo se framework and, therefore, may not be suitable for 
another purpose. SLAuS 706 (Revised) requires this paragraph to be included within a separate section 
of the auditor’s report with an appropriate heading that includes the term ―Emphasis of Matter‖. 26  
Restriction on Distribution or Use (Ref: Para. 14) 
 
A21 In addition to the alert required by paragraph 14, the auditor may consider it appropriate to indicate that 
the auditor’s report is intended solely for the specific users. Depending on the law or regula tion of the 
particular jurisdiction, this may be achieved by restricting the distribution or use of the auditor’s report. 
In these circumstances, the paragraph referred to in paragraph 14 may be expanded to include these other 
matters, and the heading modified accordingly (see illustrations in the Appendix to this SLAuS). 
 
 
 
Appendix 
(Ref: Para. A14) 
Illustrations of Independent Auditor’s Reports on Special Purpose Financial Statements  
 Illustration 1: An auditor’s report on a complete set of financial state ments of an entity other than a listed 
entity prepared in accordance with the financial reporting provisions of a contract (for purposes of this 
illustration, a compliance framework). 
 Illustration 2: An auditor’s report on a complete set of financial state ments of an entity other than a listed 
entity prepared in accordance with the tax basis of accounting in Jurisdiction X (for purposes of this 
illustration, a compliance framework). 
 Illustration 3: An auditor’s report on a complete set of financial statemen ts of a listed entity prepared in 
accordance with the financial reporting provisions established by a regulator (for purposes of this 
illustration, a fair presentation framework). 
 
Illustration 1: An auditor’s report on a complete set of financial statemen ts of an entity other than a 
listed entity prepared in accordance with the financial reporting provisions of a contract (for purposes 
of this illustration, a compliance framework). 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumsta nces are assumed: 
 The financial statements have been prepared by management of the entity in accordance with the 
financial reporting provisions of a contract (that is, a special purpose framework). Management does not 
have a choice of financial reporting frameworks. 
 The applicable financial reporting framework is a compliance framework. 
                                                           
26  See paragraph 9(a) of SLAuS 706 (Revised)  

<!-- page 346 -->

346A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
 An auditor’s report on the complete set of general purpose financial statements was not issued.  
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s res ponsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., ―clean‖) opinion is appropriate based on the audit 
evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethic s issued by CA Sri 
Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does not exist 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a 
going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 Distribution and use of the auditor’s report are restricted. 
 The auditor is not required, and has otherwise not decided, to communicate key audit matters in 
accordance with SLAuS 701.  
 The auditor has determined that th ere is no other information (i.e., the requirements of SLAuS 720 
(Revised) do not apply). 
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial reporting process differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under local law or regulation. 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
[Appropriate Addressee] 
Opinion 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the balance 
sheet as at December 31 , 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow 
statement for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant 
accounting policies. 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial stat ements of the Company for the year ended December 31, 
20X1 are prepared in all material respects, in accordance with the financial reporting provisions of Section Z 
of the contract dated January 1, 20X1 between the Company and DEF Company (―the contract‖).   
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’ s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) 27, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.  
Emphasis of Matter – Basis of Accounting and Restriction on Distribution and Use 
We draw attention to Note X to the financial statements, which describes the basis of accoun ting. The 
financial statements are prepared to assist the Company in complying with the financial reporting provisions 
of the contract referred to above. As a result, the financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose. 
                                                           
27  In the event other ethical req uirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority reference should be made to such 
regulation. 

<!-- page 347 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  347A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Our report is intended solely for the Company and DEF Company and should not be distributed to or used by 
parties other than the Company or DEF Company. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements28 
Management is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial 
reporting provisions of Section Z of the contract and for such internal control as management determines is 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.   
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disc losing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.  
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are fr ee 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes  our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SLAuSs will alway s detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.  
 
Paragraph 41(b) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that the shaded material below can be located in an 
Appendix to the auditor’s report. Paragraph 41(c) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that when law, regulation 
or national au diting standards expressly permit, reference can be made to a website of an appropriate 
authority that contains the description of the auditor’s responsibilities, rather than including this material in 
the auditor’s report, provided that the description on  the website addresses, and is not inconsistent with, the 
description of the auditor’s responsibilities below. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control.29 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management. 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
                                                           
28  Throughout these illustrative auditor’s reports, the terms management and those charged with governance may need to be 
replaced by another term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.  
29  This sentence would be modified, as appropriate, in circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to issue an opinio n 
on the effectiveness of internal control in conjunction with the audit of the financial statements. 

<!-- page 348 -->

348A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. Ho wever, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.  
 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, i ncluding any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit. 
 
  [Signature in the name of the audit firm ] 
[Audit Firm Address] 
[Date]  
 
 
Illustration 2: An auditor’s report on a complete set of financial statements of an ent ity other than a 
listed entity prepared in accordance with the tax basis of accounting in Jurisdiction X (for purposes of 
this illustration, a compliance framework). 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assume d: 
 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements that have been prepared by management of a partnership 
in accordance with the tax basis of accounting in Jurisdiction X (that is, a special purpose framework) to 
assist the partners in preparing their ind ividual income tax returns. Management does not have a choice 
of financial reporting frameworks.  
 The applicable financial reporting framework is a compliance framework. 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibili ty for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., ―clean‖) opinion is appropriate based on the audit 
evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka.  
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does not exist 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a 
going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 Distribution of the auditor’s report is restricted. 
 The auditor is not required, and has otherwise not decided, to communicate key audit matters in 
accordance with SLAuS 701.  
 The auditor has determined that there is no other i nformation (i.e., the requirements of SLAuS 720 
(Revised) do not apply).  
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statements differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under local law or regulation. 
 
 
 

<!-- page 349 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  349A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
[Appropriate Addressee] 
Opinion 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Partnership (the Partnership), which comprise the balance 
sheet as at December 31, 20X1 and the  income statement for the year then ended, and notes to the financial 
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of the Partnership for the year ended December 31, 
20X1 are pre pared, in all material respects, in accordance with [ describe the applicable income tax law ] of 
Jurisdiction X.  
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’ s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the Partnership in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) 30, and we have fulfi lled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. 
Emphasis of Matter – Basis of Accounting and Restriction on Distribution 
We draw attention to Note X to the financial statements, which describes the basis of accounting. The 
financial statements are prepared to assist the partners of the Partnership in preparing their individual income 
tax returns. As a result, t he financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose. Our report is 
intended solely for the Partnership and its partners and should not be distributed to parties other than the 
Partnership or its partners. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements 31 
Management is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the tax basis of 
accounting in Jurisdiction X and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable 
the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error.  
 
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Partnership’s financial reporting process.  
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes  our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is no t a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) will always detect a material misstatement when it 
                                                           
30  In the event other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority reference should be made to such 
regulation. 
31  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 350 -->

350A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these financial statements. 
 
Paragraph 41(b) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that the shaded material below can be located in an 
Appendix to the auditor’s report. Paragraph 41(c) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that when law, regulation 
or national auditing standards expressly permit, reference can be made to a website of an appropriate 
authority that contains the description of the auditor’s respons ibilities, rather than including this material in 
the auditor’s report, provided that the description on the website addresses, and is not inconsistent with, the 
description of the auditor’s responsibilities below. 
 
As part of an audit in accordance with S LAuSs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedu res responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may  involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances, bu t not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness 
of the Partnership’s internal control.32 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a ma terial uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that 
may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management. 
We communicate with those charged with governance  regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit. 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm]  
 
[Audit Firm Address] 
 
[Date]  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
32  This sentence would be modified, as appropriate, in circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to issue an opinio n 
on the effectiveness of internal control in conjunction with the audit of the financial statements.  

<!-- page 351 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  351A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Illustration 3: An auditor’s report on a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity prepared 
in accordance with the financial reporting provisions established by a regulator (for purposes of this 
illustration, a fair presentation framework). 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 
 Audit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity that have been prepared by management 
of the entity in accordance with the financial reporting provisions established by a regulator (that is, a 
special purpose framework) to meet the requirements of that regulator. Management does not have a 
choice of financial reporting frameworks.  
 The applicable financial reporting framework is a fair presentation framework. 
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., ―clean‖) opinion is appropriate based o n the audit 
evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka.  
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty exists related 
to even ts or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going 
concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised). The disclosure of the material uncertainty in the 
financial statements is adequate.  
 Distribution or use of the auditor’s report is not restricted. 
 The auditor is required by the regulator to communicate key audit matters in accordance with SLAuS 
701.  
 The Other Matter paragraph refers to the fact that the auditor has also issued an auditor’s report on 
financial sta tements prepared by ABC Company for the same period in accordance with a general 
purpose framework. 
 The auditor has determined that there is no other information (i.e., the requirements of SLAuS 720 
(Revised) do not apply).  
 Those responsible for oversight  of the financial statements differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
 The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under local law or regulation.  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
[To the Shareholders of ABC Company or Appropriate Addressee] 
Opinion 
We have audited the financial statements of ABC Company (the Company), which comprise the balance 
sheet as at December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow 
statement for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant 
accounting policies. 
 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of , (or present fairly, in all 
material respects)  the fin ancial position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1, and of its financial 
performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the financial reporting provisions 
of Section Y of Regulation Z.  

<!-- page 352 -->

352A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’ s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) 33, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.  
Emphasis of Matter – Basis of Accounting 
We draw attention to Note X to the financial statements, which describes the basis of accounting. The 
financial statements are prepared to assist the Company to meet the req uirements of Regulator DEF. As a 
result, the financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose. Our opinion is not modified in respect 
of this matter. 
Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern  
We draw attention to Note 6 in the financial st atements, which indicates that the Company incurred a net loss 
of ZZZ during the year ended December 31, 20X1 and, as of that date, the Company’s current liabilities 
exceeded its total assets by YYY . As stated in Note 6, these events or conditions, along with other matters as 
set forth in Note 6, indicate that a material uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 
Key Audit Matters  
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters. In addition to the matter described in the Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section above, 
we have determined the matters described below to be key audit matters to be communicated in our report.  
 
[Description of each key audit matter in accordance with SLAuS 701 as applied to this audit.] 
Other Matter 
The Company has prepared a separate set of financial statements for the year ended December 31, 20X1 i n 
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards on which we issued a separate auditor’s report to the 
shareholders of the Company dated March 31, 20X2. 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements 34 
Management is responsible for the preparation of financial Statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with the financial reporting provisions of Section Y of Regulation Z 35 9 and for such internal 
control as management determines is necessary to enable  the preparation of financial statements that are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.   
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosi ng, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going 
                                                           
33  In the event other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority reference should be made to such 
regulation. 
34  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 
35  Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a fair presentation, this may read: ―Management 
is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements in accordance with the financial reporting 
provisions of section Y of Regulation Z and for such …‖ 

<!-- page 353 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  353A 
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes  our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing St andards (SLAuSs) will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these financial statements.  
 
Paragraph 41(b) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that the shaded material below can be located in an 
Appendix to the auditor’s report. Paragraph 41(c) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that when law , regulation 
or national auditing standards expressly permit, reference can be made to a website of an appropriate 
authority that contains the description of the auditor’s responsibilities, rather than including this material in 
the auditor’s report, provi ded that the description on the website addresses, and is not inconsistent with, the 
description of the auditor’s responsibilities below. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient an d appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of 
the Company internal control.36 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management. 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accoun ting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists , we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our  auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.  
 Evaluate the overall presentation , structure and content  of the financial statements , including the 
disclosures, and whether the financia l statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.  
                                                           
36  This sentence would be modified, as appropriate, in circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to issue an opinio n 
on the effectiveness of internal control in conjunction with the audit of the financial statements. 

<!-- page 354 -->

354A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12  
       PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018  
 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.  
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were 
of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or whe n, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be 
communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 
 
 
CA Sri Lanka  membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing this independent 
auditor’s report is [number].  
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm]  
 
[Audit Firm Address] 
 
[Date]  
 
 
 

<!-- page 355 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 355A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 805 (REVISED) 
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS—AUDITS OF SINGLE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS AND SPECIFIC ELEMENTS, ACCOUNTS OR ITEMS OF A 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
(Effective for audits for periods  
ending on or after 31 March 2018) 
CONTENTS 
Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS  ...............................................................................................................  1–3 
Effective Date  .........................................................................................................................  4 
Objective  ................................................................................................................................  5 
Definitions  ..............................................................................................................................  6 
Requirements 
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement  ..................................................................  7–9 
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit  .....................................................  10 
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations  ...............................................................  11–17 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Scope of this SLAuS  ...............................................................................................................  A1–A4 
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement  ..................................................................  A5–A9 
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit  .....................................................  A10–A15 
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations  ...............................................................  A16–A28 
Appendix 1: Examples of Specific Elements, Accounts or Items of a Financial Statement  
Appendix 2: Illustrations of Auditor’s Reports on a Single Financial Statement and on a Specific Element of a 
Financial Statement 
  
Sri Lanka  Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 805 (Revised), Special Considerations —Audits of Single 
Financial Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts or Items of a Financial Statement , should be read 
in conjunction with SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an 
Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 
 

<!-- page 356 -->

356A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
1. The Sri Lanka Auditing Standards  (SLAuSs) in the 100–700 series apply to an audit of financial 
statements and are to be adapted as necessary in the circumstances when applied to audits of other 
historical financial information. This SLAuS deals with special considerations in the application of those 
SLAuSs to an audit of a single financial statement or of a specific element, account or item of a financial 
statement. The single financial statement or the specific element, account or item of a financial statement 
may be prepared in accordance with a gen eral or special purpose framework. If prepared in accordance 
with a special purpose framework, SLAuS 800 (Revised)1 also applies to the audit. (Ref: Para. A1–A4) 
2. This SLAuS does not apply to the report of a component auditor, issued as a result of work performed on 
the financial information of a component at the request of a group engagement team for purposes of an 
audit of group financial statements (see SLAuS 600).2 
3. This SLAuS does not override the requirements of the other SLAuSs; nor does it purport to deal with all 
special considerations that may be relevant in the circumstances of the engagement.  
Effective Date 
4. This SLAuS is effective for audits of single financial stat ements or of specific elements, accounts or 
items for periods ending on or after 31 March 2018. In the case of audits of single financial statements or 
of specific elements, accounts or items of a financial statement as at a specific date, this SLAuS is 
effective for audits of such information as at a date on or after 31 March 2018. 
Objective 
5. The objective of the auditor, when applying SLAuSs in an audit of a single financial statement or of a 
specific element, account or item of a financial statement, is t o address appropriately the special 
considerations that are relevant to: 
(a) The acceptance of the engagement; 
(b) The planning and performance of that engagement; and 
(c) Forming an opinion and reporting on the single financial statement or on the specific element, 
account or item of a financial statement. 
Definitions 
6. For purposes of this SLAuS, reference to: 
(a) ―Element of a financial statement‖ or ―element‖ means an ―element, account or item of a financial 
statement;‖ 
                                                           
1  SLAuS 800 (Revised), Special Considerations —Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose 
Frameworks 
2  SLAuS 600, Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors) 

<!-- page 357 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 357A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
(b) ―Sri Lanka Accounting Standards‖ means the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka; and 
(c) A single financial statement or to a specific element of a financial statement includes the related 
disclosures. The related disclosures ordinarily comprise expla natory or other descriptive information 
relevant to the financial statement or to the element. (Ref: Para. A2) 
Requirements  
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement 
Application of SLAuSs 
7. SLAuS 200 requires the auditor to comply with all SLAuSs relevant to the audit. 3 In the case of an audit 
of a single financial statement or of a specific element of a financial statement, this requirement applies 
irrespective of whether the auditor is also engaged to audit the entity’s complete set of financial  
statements. If the auditor is not also engaged to audit the entity’s complete set of financial statements, the 
auditor shall determine whether the audit of a single financial statement or of a specific element of those 
financial statements in accordance with SLAuSs is practicable. (Ref: Para. A5–A6)  
Acceptability of the Financial Reporting Framework 
8. SLAuS 210 requires the auditor to determine the acceptability of the financial reporting framework 
applied in the preparation of the financial statements. 4 In the case of an audit of a single financial 
statement or of a specific element of a financial statement, this shall include whether application of the 
financial reporting framework will result in a presentation that provides adequate disclosures to enable 
the intended users to understand the information conveyed in the financial statement or the element, and 
the effect of material transactions and events on the information conveyed in the financial statement or 
the element. (Ref: Para. A7) 
Form of Opinion 
9. SLAuS 210 requires that the agreed terms of the audit engagement include the expected form of any 
reports to be issued by the auditor. 5 In the case of an audit of a single financial statement or of a specific 
element of a financial statement, the auditor sh all consider whether the expected form of opinion is 
appropriate in the circumstances. (Ref: Para. A8–A9) 
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit 
10. SLAuS 200 states that SLAuSs are written in the context of an audit of financial statements; they are to 
be adapted as necessary in the circumstances when applied to audits of other historical financial 
information.6,7 In planning and performing the audit of a single financial statem ent or of a specific 
                                                           
3  SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards, paragraph 18 
4  SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements, paragraph 6(a) 
5  SLAuS 210, paragraph 10(e) 
6  SLAuS 200, paragraph 2 
7  SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(f), explains that the term ―financial statements‖ ordinarily refers to a complete set of financial statements 
as determined by the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework. 

<!-- page 358 -->

358A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
element of a financial statement, the auditor shall adapt all SLAuSs relevant to the audit as necessary in 
the circumstances of the engagement. (Ref: Para. A10–A15) 
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations  
11. When forming an opini on and reporting on a single financial statement or on a specific element of a 
financial statement, the auditor shall apply the requirements in SLAuS 700 (Revised), 8 and, when 
applicable, SLAuS 800 (Revised) adapted as necessary in the circumstances of the  engagement. (Ref: 
Para. A16–A22) 
Reporting on the Entity’ s Complete Set of Financial Statements and on a Single Financial Statement or on a 
Specific Element of Those Financial Statements 
12. If the auditor undertakes an engagement to report on a single financ ial statement or on a specific element 
of a financial statement in conjunction with an engagement to audit the entity’s complete set of financial 
statements, the auditor shall express a separate opinion for each engagement.  
13. The audited single financial sta tement or the audited specific element of a financial statement may be 
published together with the entity’s audited complete set of financial statements. If the auditor concludes 
that the presentation of the single financial statement or of the specific el ement of a financial statement 
does not differentiate it sufficiently from the complete set of financial statements, the auditor shall ask 
management to rectify the situation. Subject to paragraphs 15 and 16, the auditor shall also differentiate 
the opinion on the single financial statement or on the specific element of a financial statement from the 
opinion on the complete set of financial statements. The auditor shall not issue the auditor’s report 
containing the opinion on the single financial statement or on the specific element of a financial 
statement until satisfied with the differentiation.  
Considering the Implications of Certain Matters Included  in the Auditor’s Report on the Entity’s Complete 
Set of Financial Statements  for the Audit of the Single  Financial Statement or the Specific Element of a 
Financial Statement and for the Auditor’s Report Thereon. 
14. If the auditor’s report on an entity’s complete set of financial statements includes: 
(a) A modified opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised);9  
(b) An Emphasis of Matter paragraph or an Other Matter paragraph in accordance with SLAuS 706 
(Revised);10 
(c) A Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section in accordance with SLAuS 570 
(Revised);11  
(d) Communication of key audit matters in accordance with SLAuS 701;12 or 
(e) A statement that describes an uncorrected material misstatement of the other information in 
accordance with SLAuS 720 (Revised);13 
                                                           
8  SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements 
9  SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report 
10  SLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report 
11  SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern, paragraph 22 
12  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report, paragraph 13 

<!-- page 359 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 359A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
the auditor shall consider the implications, if any, that these matters have for the audit of the single financia l 
statement or of the specific element of a financial statement and for the auditor’s report thereon. (Ref: Para. 
A23–A27) 
Adverse Opinion or Disclaimer of Opinion in the Auditor’s Report on the Entity’s Complete Set of Financial 
Statements 
15. If the auditor concludes that it is necessary to express an adverse opinion or disclaim an opinion on the 
entity’s complete set of financial statements as a whole, SLAuS 705 (Revised) does not permit the 
auditor to include in the same auditor’s report an u nmodified opinion on a single financial statement that 
forms part of those financial statements or on a specific element of those financial statements. 14 This is 
because such an unmodified opinion would contradict the adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinio n on 
the entity’s complete set of financial statements as a whole. (Ref: Para. A28)  
16. If the auditor concludes that it is necessary to express an adverse opinion or disclaim an opinion on the 
entity’s complete set of financial statements as a whole but, in the context of a separate audit of a specific 
element of those financial statements, the auditor nevertheless considers it appropriate to express an 
unmodified opinion on that element, the auditor shall only do so if:  
(a) The auditor is not prohibited by law or regulation from doing so; 
(b) That opinion is expressed in an auditor’s report that is not published together with the auditor’s 
report containing the adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion; and 
(c) The element does not constitute a major portion of the entity’s complete set of financial statements. 
17. The auditor shall not express an unmodified opinion on a single financial statement of a complete set of 
financial statements if the auditor has expressed an adverse opinion or disclaimed an opin ion on the 
complete set of financial statements as a whole. This is the case even if the auditor’s report on the single 
financial statement is not published together with the auditor’s report containing the adverse opinion or 
disclaimer of opinion. This is because a single financial statement is deemed to constitute a major portion 
of those financial statements. 
*** 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Scope of this SLAuS (Ref: Para. 1, 6(c)) 
A1.  SLAuS 200 defines the term ―historical financial infor mation‖ as information expressed in financial 
terms in relation to a particular entity, derived primarily from that entity’s accounting system, about 
economic events occurring in past time periods or about economic conditions or circumstances at points 
in time in the past.15 
A2.  SLAuS 200 defines the term ―financial statements‖ as a structured representation of historical financial 
information, including disclosures, intended to communicate an entity’s economic resources or 
                                                                                                                                                                                              
13  SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information, paragraph 22(e)(ii) 
14  SLAuS 705 (Revised), paragraph 15 
15  SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(g) 

<!-- page 360 -->

360A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
obligations at a point in time or  the changes therein for a period of time in accordance with a financial 
reporting framework. The term  ―financial statements‖  ordinarily refers to a complete set of financial 
statements as determined by the requirements of the applicable financial reportin g framework, but can 
also refer to a single financial statement. Disclosures comprise explanatory or descriptive information, 
set out as required, expressly permitted or otherwise allowed by the applicable financial reporting 
framework, on the face of a fi nancial statement, or in the notes, or incorporated therein by cross -
reference.16 As noted in paragraph 6(c), reference to a single financial statement or specific element of a 
financial statement includes the related disclosures. 
A3.  SLAuSs are written in  the context of an audit of financial statements; 17 they are to be adapted as 
necessary in the circumstances when applied to an audit of other historical financial information, such as 
a single financial statement or a specific element of a financial statem ent. This SLAuS assists in this 
regard. (Appendix 1 lists examples of such other historical financial information.)  
A4.  A reasonable assurance engagement other than an audit of historical financial information is performed in 
accordance with Sri Lanka Standard on Assurance Engagements (SLSAE) 3000 (Revised).18 
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement  
Application of SLAuSs (Ref: Para. 7) 
A5.  SLAuS 200 requires the auditor to comply with (a) relevant ethical requirements, including those 
pertaining to independence, relating to financial statement audit engagements, and (b) all SLAuSs 
relevant to the audit. It also requires the auditor to comply with each requirement of an SLAuS unless, in 
the circumstances of the audit, the entire SLAuS is not relevant or the requirement is not relevant because 
it is conditional and the condition does not exist. In exceptional circumstances, the auditor may judge it 
necessary to depart from a relevant requirement in an SLAuS by performing alternative audit procedures 
to achieve the aim of that requirement.19 
A6.  Compliance with the requirements of SLAuSs relevant to the audit of a single financial statement or of a 
specific element of a financial statement may not be practica ble when the auditor is not also engaged to 
audit the entity’s complete set of financial statements. In such cases, the auditor often does not have the 
same understanding of the entity and its environment, including its internal control, as an auditor who 
also audits the entity’s complete set of financial statements. The auditor also does not have the audit 
evidence about the general quality of the accounting records or other accounting information that would 
be acquired in an audit of the entity’s complete  set of financial statements. Accordingly, the auditor may 
need further evidence to corroborate audit evidence acquired from the accounting records. In the case of 
an audit of a specific element of a financial statement, certain SLAuSs require audit work t hat may be 
disproportionate to the element being audited. For example, although the requirements of SLAuS 570 
(Revised) are likely to be relevant in the circumstances of an audit of a schedule of accounts receivable, 
complying with those requirements may n ot be practicable because of the audit effort required. If the 
auditor concludes that an audit of a single financial statement or of a specific element of a financial 
                                                           
16  SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(f) 
17  SLAuS 200, paragraph 2 
18  SLSAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information 
19  SLAuS 200, paragraphs 14, 18, and 22–23 

<!-- page 361 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 361A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
statement in accordance with SLAuSs may not be practicable, the auditor may discuss with management 
whether another type of engagement might be more practicable. 
Acceptability of the Financial Reporting Framework (Ref: Para. 8) 
A7.  A single financial statement or a specific element of a financial statement may be prepared in accordance 
with a n applicable financial reporting framework that is based on a financial reporting framework 
established by an authorized or recognized standards setting organization for the preparation of a 
complete set of financial statements (for example, SLFRSs). If th is is the case, determination of the 
acceptability of the applicable framework may involve considering whether that framework includes all 
the requirements of the framework on which it is based that are relevant to the presentation of a single 
financial statement or of a specific element of a financial statement that provides adequate disclosures.  
Form of Opinion (Ref: Para. 9) 
A8.  The form of opinion to be expressed by the auditor depends on the applicable financial reporting 
framework and any applicable laws or regulations.20 In accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised):21 
(a) When expressing an unmodified opinion on a complete set of financial statements prepared in 
accordance with a fair presentation framework, the auditor’s opinion, unless otherwise required by 
law or regulation, uses one of the following phrases: 
(i) the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with [the 
applicable financial reporting framework]; or 
(ii) the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with [the applicable financial 
reporting framework]; and 
(b) When expressing an unmodified opinion on a complete set of financial statements prepared in 
accordance with a compliance framework, the auditor’s opinion states that the financial statements 
are prep ared, in all material respects, in accordance with [the applicable financial reporting 
framework]. 
A9.  In the case of a single financial statement or of a specific element of a financial statement, the applicable 
financial reporting framework may not expl icitly address the presentation of the financial statement or of 
the specific element of the financial statement . This may be the case when the applicable financial 
reporting framework is based on a financial reporting framework established by an authorize d or 
recognized standards setting organization for the preparation of a complete set of fin ancial statements 
(for example, SLFRS ). The auditor therefore considers whether the expected form of opinion is 
appropriate in the light of the applicable financial reporting framework. Factors that may affect the 
auditor’s consideration as to whether to use the phrases ―presents fairly, in all material respects,‖ or 
―gives a true and fair view‖ in the auditor’s opinion include: 
 Whether the applicable financial report ing framework is explicitly or implicitly restricted to the 
preparation of a complete set of financial statements. 
 Whether the single financial statement or the specific element of a financial statement will:  
                                                           
20  SLAuS 200, paragraph 8 
21  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraphs 25–26 

<!-- page 362 -->

362A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
○ Comply fully with each of those requirements of the framework relevant to the particular 
financial statement or the particular element, and the presentation of the financial statement or 
the specific element of a financial statement include the related disclosures. 
○ If necessary to achieve fair presentation, provide disclosures beyond those specifically required 
by the framework or, in exceptional circumstances, depart from a requirement of the framework.  
The auditor’s decision as to the expected form of opi nion is a matter of professional judgment. It may be 
affected by whether use of the phrases ―presents fairly, in all material respects,‖ or ―gives a true and fair 
view‖ in the auditor’s opinion on a single financial statement or on a specific element of a financial 
statement prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework is generally accepted in the 
particular jurisdiction. 
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit (Ref: Para. 10) 
A10.  The relevance of each of the SLAuSs requires careful consideration. Even when only a specific 
element of a financial statement is the subject of the audit, SLAuSs such as SLAuS 240,22 SLAuS 
55023 and SLAuS 570 (Revised) are, in principle, relevant. This is because the element could be 
misstated as a result of fraud, the effect of related party transactions, or the incorrect application of the 
going concern basis of accounting under the applicable financial reporting framework. 
A11.  SLAuS 260 (Revised) requires the auditor to determine the appropriate person(s) within the entity’s 
governance structure with whom to communicate. 24 SLAuS 260 (Revised) notes that, in some cases, 
all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity, and the application of 
communication requirements is modified to recognize this position. 25 When a complete set of financial 
statements is also prepared by the entity, those person(s) responsible for the oversight of the 
preparation of the single fi nancial statement or the element may not be the same as those charged with 
governance responsible for the oversight of the preparation of the complete set of financial statements.  
A12.  Furthermore, SLAuSs are written in the context of an audit of financi al statements; they are to be 
adapted as necessary in the circumstances when applied to the audit of a single financial statement26 or 
of a specific element of a financial statement. For example, written representations from management 
about the complete se t of financial statements would be replaced by written representations about the 
presentation of the financial statement or the element in accordance with the applicable financial 
reporting framework. 
A13. Matters included in the auditor’s report on the co mplete set of financial statements may have 
implications for the audit of a single financial statement or of an element of a financial statement (see 
paragraph 14). When planning and performing an audit of  a single financial statement or a specific 
element of a financial statement in conjunction with the audit of the entity’s complete set of financial 
statements, the auditor may be able to use audit evidence obtained as part of the audit of the entity’s 
complete set of financial statements in the audit of t he financial statement or the element. SLAuSs, 
however, require the auditor to plan and perform the audit of the financial statement or element to 
                                                           
22  SLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements 
23  SLAuS 550, Related Parties 
24  SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance, paragraph 11 
25  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph 10(b), 13, A1 (third bullet), A2 and A8. 
26  SLAuS 200, paragraph 2 

<!-- page 363 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 363A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the opinion on the financial statement or 
on the element. 
A14.  The individual financial statements that comprise a complete set of financial statements, and many of 
the specific elements of those financial statements, including their related disclosures, are interrelated. 
Accordingly, when auditing a single financial statement or a specific element of a financial statement, 
the auditor may not be able to consider the financial statement or the element in isolation. 
Consequently, the auditor may need to perform procedures in relation to the interrelated  items to meet 
the objective of the audit.  
A15.  Furthermore, the materiality determined for a single financial statement or for a specific element of a 
financial statement may be lower than the materiality determined for the entity’s complete set of 
financial statements; this will affect the nature, timing and extent of the audit procedures and the 
evaluation of uncorrected misstatements. 
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations (Ref: Para. 11) 
A16.  SLAuS 700 (Revised) requires the auditor, in forming an opinion, to evaluate whether the financial 
statements provide adequate disclosures to enable the intended users to understand the effect of 
material transactions and events on the information conveyed in t he financial statements. 27 In the case 
of a single financial statement or of a specific element of a financial statement, it is important that the 
financial statement or the element, in view of the requirements of the applicable financial reporting 
framework, provides adequate disclosures to enable the intended users to understand the information 
conveyed in the financial statement or the element, and the effect of material transactions and events 
on the information conveyed in the financial statement or the element. 
A17.  Appendix 2 contains illustrations of independent auditor’s reports on a single financial statement and 
on a specific element of a financial statement.  Other illustrations of auditor’s reports may be relevant 
to reporting on a single financi al statement or on a specific element of a financial statement  (see, for 
example, the Appendices to SLAuS 700 (Revised), SLAuS 705 (Revised), SLAuS 570 (Revised), 
SLAuS 720 (Revised), and SLAuS 706 (Revised)).  
Application of SLAuS 700 (Revised) When Reporting on a Single Financial Statement or on a Specific 
Element of a Financial Statement  
A18.  Paragraph 11 of this SLAuS explains that the auditor is required to apply the requirements in SLAuS 
700 (Revised), adapted as necessary in the circumstances of the engagement, when forming an opinion 
and reporting on a single financial statement or on a specific element of a financial statement.  In doing 
so, the auditor is also required to apply the rep orting requirements in other SLAuSs adapted as 
necessary in the circumstances of the engagement, and may find the considerations addressed in 
paragraphs A19–A21 below helpful.  
Going Concern 
A19.  Depending on the applicable financial reporting framework u sed in the preparation of the single 
financial statement or the specific element of a financial statement, the description in the auditor's 
report of management’s responsibilities 28 relating to going concern may need to be adapted as 
                                                           
27  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 13(e) 
28  See SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraphs 34(b) and A48.  

<!-- page 364 -->

364A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
necessary. The description in the auditor’s report of the auditor’s responsibilities 29 may also need to be 
adapted as necessary depending on how SLAuS 570 (Revised) applies in the circumstances of the 
engagement. 
Key Audit Matters 
A20.  SLAuS 700 (Revised) requires the auditor to communicate key audit matters in  accordance with 
SLAuS 701 for audits of complete sets of general purpose financial statements of listed entities. 30 For 
audits of a single financial statement or a specific element of a  financial statement, SLAuS 701 only 
applies when communication of key audit matters in the auditor’s report on such financial statements 
or elements is required by law or regulation, or the auditor otherwise decides to communicate key audit 
matters. When key audit matters are communicated in the auditor’s report on a single financial 
statement or a specific element of a financial statement, SLAuS 701 applies in its entirety.31 
Other Information  
A21. SLAuS 720 (Revised) deals with the auditor’s responsibili ties relating to other information. In the 
context of this SLAuS, reports containing or accompanying the single financial statement or specific 
element of a financial statement —the purpose of which is to provide owners (or similar stakeholders) 
with inform ation on matters presented in the single financial statement or the specific element of a 
financial statement—are considered to be annual reports for purposes of SLAuS 720 (Revised). When 
the auditor determines that the entity plans to issue such a report,  the requirements in SLAuS 720 
(Revised) apply to the audit of the single financial statement or the element.  
CA Sri Lanka Membership Number of the Engagement Partner 
A22.  The requirement in SLAuS 700 (Revised) for the auditor to include the CA Sri Lanka membership 
number of the engagement partner  in the auditor’s report also applies to audits of single financial 
statements of listed entities or specific elements of financial statements of listed entities. 32 The auditor 
may be required by law or regulation to include the CA Sri Lanka membership number of the 
engagement partner in the auditor’s report or may otherwise decide to do so when reporting on a single 
financial statement or on an element of a financial statement of entities other than listed entities .  
Reporting on the Entity’s Complete Set of Financial Statements and on a Single Financial Statement or on a 
Specific Element of a Financial Statement (Ref: Para. 14) 
Considering the Implications of Certain Matters Included in the Auditor’s Report on the Entity’s Complete 
Set of Financial Statements for the Audit of the Single Financial Statement or the Specific Element of a 
Financial Statement and for the Auditor’s Report Thereon  
A23. Paragraph 14 requires the auditor to consider the implications, if any , of certain matters included in the 
auditor’s report on the complete set of financial statements for the audit of the single financial 
statement or the specific element of a financial statement and for the auditor’s report thereon. 
Considering whether a m atter included in the auditor’s report on the complete set of financial 
                                                           
29  See SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraphs 39(b)(iv). 
30  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 30 
31  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 31  
32  See SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraphs 46 and A61–A63.  

<!-- page 365 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 365A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
statements is relevant in the context of an engagement to report on a single financial statement or a 
specific element of a financial statement involves professional judgment. 
A24. Factors that may be relevant in considering those implications include: 
 The nature of the matter(s) being described in the auditor’s report on the complete set of financial 
statements and the extent to which it relates to what is included in the single financ ial statement or 
a specific element of a financial statement. 
 The pervasiveness of the matter(s) described in the auditor’s report on the complete set of 
financial statements. 
 The nature and extent of the differences between the applicable financial report ing frameworks. 
 The extent of the difference between the period(s) covered by the complete set of the financial 
statements compared to the period(s) or dates of the single financial statement or the element of a 
financial statement. 
 The time elapsed since the date of the auditor’s report on the complete set of the financial 
statements. 
A25. For example, in the case when there is a qualification of the auditor’s opinion in relation to accounts 
receivable in the auditor’s report on the complete set of financi al statements, and the single financial 
statement includes accounts receivable, or the specific element of a financial statement relates to 
accounts receivable, it is likely that there would be implications for the audit. On the other hand, if the 
qualification of the auditor’s opinion on the complete set of financial statements relates to 
classification of long-term debt, then it is less likely that there would be implications for an audit of the 
single financial statement that is the income statement, or if the specific element of the financial 
statement relates to accounts receivable. 
A26.  Key audit matters that are communicated in the auditor’s report on the complete set of financial 
statements may have implications for an audit of a single financial st atement or the specific element of 
the financial statement. The information included in the Key Audit Matters section about how the 
matter was addressed in the audit of the complete set of financial statements may be useful to the 
auditor’s determination o f how to address the matter when it is relevant to the audit of the single 
financial statement or the specific element of the financial statement.  
Inclusion of a reference to the auditor’s report on the complete set of financial statements  
A27.  Even when certain matters included in the auditor’s report on the complete set of financial statements 
do not have implications for the audit of, or for the auditor’s report on, the single financial statement or 
the specific element of a financial statemen t, the auditor may deem it appropriate to refer to the 
matter(s) in an Other Matter paragraph in an auditor’s report on the single financial statement or on the 
specific element of a financial statement (see SLAuS 706 Revised)).33 For example, the auditor m ay 
consider it appropriate to refer in the auditor’s report on the single financial statement or a specific 
element of the financial statement to a Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section 
included in the auditor’s report on the complete set of financial statements. 
 
                                                           
33  See SLAuS 706 (Revised), paragraphs 10–11.  

<!-- page 366 -->

366A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Adverse Opinion or Disclaimer of Opinion in the Auditor’s Report on the Entity’s Complete Set of Financial 
Statements (Ref: Para. 15) 
A28.  In the auditor’s report on an entity’s complete set of financial statements, the expression of a 
disclaimer of opinion regarding the results of operations and cash flows, where relevant, and an 
unmodified opinion regarding the financial position is permitted since the disclaimer of opinion is 
being issued in respect of the results of operations a nd cash flows only and not in respect of the 
financial statements as a whole.34  
 
                                                           
34  SLAuS 510, Initial Audit Engagements—Opening Balances, paragraph A8, and SLAuS 705 (Revised), paragraph A16 

<!-- page 367 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 367A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
Appendix 1 
(Ref: Para. A3) 
Examples of Specific Elements, Accounts or Items of a Financial Statement 
 Accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, inventory, the liability for accrued 
benefits of a private pension plan, the recorded value of identified intangible assets, or the liability for 
―incurred but not reported‖ claims in an insurance portfolio, including related notes.  
 A schedule of externally managed assets and income of a private pension plan, including related notes.  
 A schedule of net tangible assets, including related notes. 
 A schedule of disbursements in relation to a lease property, including explanatory notes. 
 A schedule of profit participation or employee bonuses, including explanatory notes. 
 
Appendix 2 
(Ref: Para. A17) 
Illustrations of Independent Auditor`s Reports on a Single Financial Statement and 
on a Specific Element of a Financial Statement 
 Illustration 1: An auditor’s report on a single financial statement of an entity other than a listed entity 
prepared in accordance with a general purpose framework (for purposes of this illustration, a fair 
presentation framework). 
 Illustration 2: An auditor’s report on a single finan cial statement of an entity other than a listed entity 
prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework (for purposes of this illustration, a fair 
presentation framework). 
 Illustration 3: An auditor’s report on a specific element of a financial stat ement of a listed entity prepared 
in accordance with a special purpose framework (for purposes of this illustration, a compliance 
framework). 
 
Illustration 1: An auditor’s report on a single financial statement of an entity other than a listed 
entity pre pared in accordance with a general purpose framework (for purposes of this 
illustration, a fair presentation framework). 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:  
 Audit of a balance sheet (that is, a single financial statement) of an entity other than a listed 
entity.  
 The balance sheet has been prepared by management of the entity in accordance with the 
requirements of the Financial Reporting Framework in Jurisdict ion X relevant to preparing a 
balance sheet.  
 The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for 
the financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
 The applicable financial reporting framework is a fair presentation framework designed to 

<!-- page 368 -->

368A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
meet the common financial information needs of a wide range of users.  
 The auditor has determined that it is appropriate to use the phrase ―presents fairly, in all 
material respects,‖ in the auditor’s opinion. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised) . The disclosure of the 
material uncertainty in the single financial statement is adequate.  
 The auditor is not required, and has otherwise not decided, to communicate key audit matters 
in accordance with SLAuS 701 in the context of the audit of the balanc e sheet.  
 The auditor has determined that there is no other information (i.e., the requirements of 
SLAuS 720 (Revised) do not apply).  
 Those responsible for oversight of the financial statement differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statement. 
 The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under local law or regulation. 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
[Appropriate Addressee] 
Opinion 
We have audited the balance sheet of ABC Company (the Company) as at December 31, 20X1 and notes to 
the financial statement, including a summary of significant accounting policies (together ―the financial 
statement‖).  
In our opinion, the accompanying fina ncial statement presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of the Company as at December 31, 20X1 in accordance with those requirements of the Financial 
Reporting Framework in Jurisdiction X relevant to preparing such a financial sta tement. [Opinion section 
positioned first as required in SLAuS 700 (Revised)] 
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’ s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statement 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) 35 , and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. [The first and last sentences in this section used to be in the Auditor’s Responsibility sec tion. 
Also, the Basis for Opinion section is positioned immediately after the Opinion section as required in SLAuS 
700 (Revised).] 
                                                           
35  In the event other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority reference should be made to such 
regulation. 

<!-- page 369 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 369A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern  
We draw attention to Note 6 in the financial statement, which indicates that t he Company incurred a net loss 
of ZZZ during the year ended December 31, 20X1 and, as of that date, the Company’s current liabilities 
exceeded its total assets by YYY . As stated in Note 6, these events or conditions, along with other matters as set 
forth in Note 6, indicate that a material uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.  
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statement36 
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statement in accordance 
with those requirements of the Financial Reporting Framework in Jurisdiction X relevant to preparing such a 
financial statement, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of a financial statement that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  
In preparing the financial statement, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters  relating to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Com pany or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.  
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statement 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statement as a whole is free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggr egate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of this financial statement. 
Paragraph 41(b) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that the shaded material below can be located in an 
Appendix to the auditor’s report. Paragraph 41(c) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that when law, regulation 
or national auditing standards expressly permit, reference can be made to a website of an appropriate 
authority that contains the description of the auditor’s responsibil ities, rather than including this material in 
the auditor’s report, provided that the description on the website addresses, and is not inconsistent with, the 
description of the auditor’s responsibilities below.  
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuS s, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:  
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statement, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may inv olve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances, but no t for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
                                                           
36  Throughout these illustrative auditor’s reports, the terms management and those charged with governance may need to be replaced 
by another term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction. 

<!-- page 370 -->

370A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control.37 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates, 
if any, and related disclosures made by management. 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or,  if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify ou r opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.  
 Evaluate the overall presentation , structure and  content of the financial statement , including the 
disclosures, and whether the financial statement represents the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.  
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.  
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit Firm Address] 
 
[Date]  
 
                                                           
37  This sentence would be modified, as appropriate, in circums tances when the auditor also has responsibility to issue an opinion on 
the effectiveness of internal control in conjunction with the audit of the financial statement. 

<!-- page 371 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 371A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
Illustration 2:  An auditor’s report on a single financial statement of an entity other than a listed 
entity prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework. 
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following ccircumstances are assumed: 
 Audit of a statement of cash receipts and disbursements (that is, a single financial statement) of 
an entity other than a listed entity. 
 An auditor’s report on the complete set of financial statements was not issued. 
 The financial statement has been prepared by management of the entity in accordance with the 
cash receipts and disbursements basis of accounting to respond to a request for cash flow 
information received from a creditor. Management has a choice of financial reporting 
frameworks. 
 The applicable financial reporting framework is a fair presentation framework designed to 
meet the financial information needs of specific users.38 
 The auditor has concluded an unmodified (i.e., ―cl ean‖) opinion is appropriate based on the 
audit evidence obtained. 
 The auditor has determined that it is appropriate to use the phrase ―presents fairly, in all 
material respects,‖ in the auditor’s opinion. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka. 
 Distribution or use of the auditor’s report is not restricted. 
 Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty 
does not exist related to events or condi tions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s 
ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised).  
 The auditor is not required, and has otherwise not decided, to communicate key audit matters 
in accordance with SLAuS 701 i n the context of the audit of the statement of cash receipts and 
disbursements.  
 The auditor has determined that there is no other information (i.e., the requirements of SLAuS 
720 (Revised) do not apply).  
 Management is responsible for the preparation of the financial statement and oversight of the 
financial reporting process to prepare this financial statement.  
 The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under local law or regulation.  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
38  SLAuS 800 (Revised) contains requirements and guidance on the form and content of fina ncial statements prepared in accordance 
with a special purpose framework. 

<!-- page 372 -->

372A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
[Appropriate Addressee] 
Opinion 
We have audited the statement of cash receipts and disbursements of ABC Company (the Company) for the 
year ended December 31, 20X1 and notes to the statement of cash receipts and disbursements, including a 
summary of significant accounting policies (together ―the financial statement‖).  
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statement presents fairly, in all material respects, the cash receipts 
and disbursements of the Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1 in accordance with the cash 
receipts and  disbursements basis of accounting described in Note X. [Opinion section positioned first as 
required in SLAuS 700 (Revised)] 
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’ s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statement 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) 39 and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. [The first and last sentences in this section used to be in the Auditor’s Responsibility section. Also, 
the Basis for Opinion section is positioned immediately after the Opinion section as required in SLAuS 700 
(Revised).] 
Emphasis of Matter – Basis of Accounting 
We draw attention to Note X to the financial statement, which describes the basis of accounting. The financial 
statement is prepared to provide information to XYZ Creditor. As a result, the statement may not be suitable 
for another purpose. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statement 40 
Management is responsible for preparation and fair presentation of the financial statement in accordance 
with the cash receipts and disbursements basis of accounting described in Note X; this includes determining 
that the cash receipts and disbursements basis of accounting is an acceptable basis for the preparation of the 
financial statement in the circumstances, and for such internal control as management d etermines is 
necessary to enable the preparation of a financial statement that is free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.  
In preparing the financial statement, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
                                                           
39  In the event other ethical requirements for auditors are issued by any regulatory authority reference should be made to such 
regulation. 
40  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction. 

<!-- page 373 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 373A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statement 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statement as a whole is free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes  our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of this financial statement.  
Paragraph 41(b) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains  that the shaded material below can be located in an 
Appendix to the auditor’s report. Paragraph 41(c) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that when law, regulation 
or national auditing standards expressly permit, reference can be made to a website of an appro priate 
authority that contains the description of the auditor’s responsibilities, rather than including this material in 
the auditor’s report, provided that the description on the website addresses, and is not inconsistent with, the 
description of the auditor’s responsibilities below. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial state ment, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting  from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control.41 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of a ccounting and 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty ex ists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statement or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.  
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates, 
if any, and related disclosures made by management. 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statement, including the 
disclosures, and whether the financial statement represents the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.  
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.  
                                                           
41  This sentence would be modified, as appropriate, in circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to issue an opinio n on 
the effectiveness of internal control in conjunction with the audit of the financial statement.  

<!-- page 374 -->

374A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit Firm Address] 
[Date]  
 
Illustration 3: An auditor’s report on a specific element of a financial statement of a listed entity 
prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework.  
For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed: 
  Audit of an accounts receivable schedule (that is, element, account or item of a financial 
statement). 
  The financial information has been prepared by management of the entity in accordance with 
the financial reporting provisions established by a regulator to meet the requirements of that 
regulator. Management does not have a choice of financial reporting frameworks.  
  The applicable financial reporting framework i s a compliance framework designed to meet the 
financial information needs of specific users.42 
  The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the 
financial statements in SLAuS 210. 
  The auditor has concluded an  unmodified (i.e., ―clean‖) opinion is appropriate based on the 
audit evidence obtained. 
 The relevant ethical requirements that apply to the audit comprise the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri 
Lanka. 
  Distribution of the auditor’s report is restricted. 
  Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a material uncertainty does 
not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS 570 (Revised). 
  The auditor is not required, and has otherwise not decided to communicate key audit matters in 
accordance with SLAuS 701 in the context of the audit of the accounts receivable schedule.  
  The auditor has determined that there is no other information (i.e., the requirements of SLAuS 
720 (Revised) do not apply).  
  Those responsible for oversight of the financial statement differ from those responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statement. 
                                                           
42  SLAuS 800 (Revised) contains requirements and guidance on the form and content of financial statements prepared in accordance  
with a special purpose framework. 

<!-- page 375 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 375A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
 
The auditor has no other reporting responsibilities required under local law or regulation. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
 [To the Shareholders of ABC Company or Other Appropriate Addressee] 
Opinion 
We have audited the accounts receivable schedule of ABC Company (the Company) as at December 31, 
20X1 (―the schedule‖).  
In our opinion, the financial information in the schedule of the Company as at December 31, 20X1 is 
prepared, in all material respects,  in accordance with [describe the financial reporting provisions established 
by the regulator]. [Opinion section positioned first as required SLAuS 700 (Revised)] 
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’ s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Schedule section of our 
report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka 
(Code of Ethics) 9, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
[The first and last sentences in this section used to be in the Auditor’s Responsibility section. Also, the Basis for 
Opinion section is positioned immediately after opinion section as required in SLAuS 700 (Revised).] 
Emphasis of Matter – Basis of Accounting and Restriction on Distribution 
We draw attention to Note X to the schedule, which describes the basis of accounting. The schedule is 
prepared to assist the Company to meet the requirements of Regulator DEF. As a result, the schedule may not 
be suitable for another purpose. Our report is intended solely for the Company and Regulator DEF and should 
not be distributed to parties other than the Company or Regulator DEF. Our opinion is not modified in respect 
of this matter. 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Schedule43 
Management is responsible for the preparation of the schedule in accordance with [describe the financial 
reporting provisions established by the regulator], and for such internal control as management determines is 
necessary to enable the preparation of the schedule that is free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error. 
In preparing the schedule, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicabl e, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis 
of accounting unless management  either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. 
                                                           
43  Or other terms that are appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction. 

<!-- page 376 -->

376A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Schedule 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the schedule is free from material 
misstatement, whether due to f raud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes  our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of this schedule.  
 
Paragraph 41(b) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that the shaded material below can be located in an 
Appendix to the auditor’s report. Paragraph 41(c) of SLAuS 700 (Revised) explains that when law, 
regulation or national auditing standards expressly permit, reference can be m ade to a website of an 
appropriate authority that contains the description of the auditor’s responsibilities, rather than including 
this material in the auditor’s report, provided that the description on the website addresses, and is not 
inconsistent with, the description of the auditor’s responsibilities below. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstat ement of the schedule, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control.44 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If 
we conclude that a mate rial uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the schedule or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going 
concern. 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates, if any, and related disclosures made by management. 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.  
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that 
may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
                                                           
44  This sentence would be modified, as appropriate, in circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to issue an opinio n on 
the effectiveness of internal control in conjunction with the audit of the schedule. 

<!-- page 377 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 377A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing this independent 
auditor’s report is [number].  
[Signature in the name of the audit firm] [Audit Firm Address] 
[Date]  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 378 -->

378A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 810 (REVISED) 
ENGAGEMENTS TO REPORT ON SUMMARY  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Effective for engagements to report on summary financial statements for periods  
ending on or after 31 March 2018) 
CONTENTS 
Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS  ...................................................................................................................  1 
Effective Date  .............................................................................................................................  2 
Objectives  ...................................................................................................................................  3 
Definitions  ..................................................................................................................................  4 
Requirements 
Engagement Acceptance  .............................................................................................................  57 
Nature of Procedures  ..................................................................................................................  8 
Form of Opinion  .........................................................................................................................  911 
Timing of Work and Events Subsequent to the Date of the Auditor’s  
Report on the Audited Financial Statements  .......................................................................  1213 
Information in Documents Containing Summary Financial Statements ......................................  1415 
Auditor’s Report on Summary Financial Statements  ..................................................................  1621 
Restriction on Distribution or Use or Alerting Readers to the  
Basis of Accounting  .............................................................................................................  22 
Comparatives  ..............................................................................................................................  2324 
Unaudited Supplementary Information Presented with Summary Financial Statements ............  25 
Auditor Association .....................................................................................................................  2627 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Engagement Acceptance  .............................................................................................................  A1A7 
Evaluating the Availability of the Audited Financial Statements  ...............................................  A8 
Form of Opinion  .........................................................................................................................  A9 
Timing of Work and Events Subsequent to the Date of the Auditor’s Report on the  
 Audited Financial Statements  ..............................................................................................  A10 
Information in Documents Containing Summary Financial Statements  .....................................  A11A16 

<!-- page 379 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 379A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
Auditor’s Report on Summary Financial Statements  ..................................................................  A17A23 
Comparatives  ..............................................................................................................................  A24A25 
Unaudited Supplementary Information Presented with Summary Financial Statements ............  A26 
Auditor Association  ....................................................................................................................  A27 
Appendix: Illustrations of Independent Auditor’s Reports on  
Summary Financial Statements 
 
Sri Lanka  Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810 (Revised), Engagements to Report on Summary Financial 
Statements, should be read in conjunction with SLAuS  200, Overall Objectives of the Independent 
Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 380 -->

380A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS ) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to an 
engagement to report on summary financial statements derived from financial statements audited in 
accordance with SLAuSs by that same auditor. 
Effective Date 
2. This SLAuS is effective for engageme nts to report on summary financial statements for periods ending 
on or after 31 March 2018. 
Objectives 
3. The objectives of the auditor are: 
(a) To determine whether it is appropriate to accept the engagement to report on summary financial 
statements; and 
(b) If engaged to report on summary financial statements: 
(i) To form an opinion on the summary financial statements based on an evaluation of the 
conclusions drawn from the evidence obtained; and 
(ii) To express clearly that opinion through a written report that also describes the basis for that 
opinion. 
Definitions 
4. For purposes of this SLAuS, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:  
(a) Applied criteria – The criteria applied by management in the preparation of the summary financial 
statements. 
(b) Audited financial statements – Financial statements 1 audited by the auditor in accordance with 
SLAuSs, and from which the summary financial statements are derived. 
(c) Summary financial statements – Historical financial information that is derived from  financial 
statements but that contains less detail than the financial statements, while still providing a 
structured representation consistent with that provided by the financial statements of the entity’s 
economic resources or obligations at a point in t ime or the changes  therein for a period of time. 2 
Different jurisdictions may use different terminology to describe such historical financial information. 
                                                           
1  SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards, paragraph 13(f), defines the term ―financial statements.‖ 
2  SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(f) 

<!-- page 381 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 381A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
Requirements  
Engagement Acceptance 
5. The auditor shall accept an engagement to report on summary financial statements in accordance with this 
SLAuS only when the auditor has been engaged to conduct an audit in accordance with SLAuSs of the 
financial statements from which the summary financial statements are derived. (Ref: Para. A1)  
6. Before accepting an engagement to report on summary financial statements, the auditor shall : (Ref: Para. 
A2)  
(a) Determine whether the applied criteria are acceptable; (Ref: Para. A3–A7) 
(b) Obtain the agreement of management that it acknowledges and understands its responsibility:  
(i) For the preparation of the summary financial statements in accordance with the applied criteria;  
(ii) To make the audited financial statements available to the intended u sers of the summary 
financial statements without undue difficulty (or, if law or regulation provides that the audited 
financial statements need not be made available to the intended users of the summary financial 
statements and establishes the criteria for  the preparation of the summary financial statements, 
to describe that law or regulation in the summary financial statements); and  
(iii) To include the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements in any document that 
contains the summary financia l statements and that indicates that the auditor has reported on 
them. 
(d) Agree with management the form of opinion to be expressed on the summary financial statements 
(see paragraphs 9–11). 
 
7. If the auditor concludes that the applied criteria are unaccepta ble or is unable to obtain the agreement of 
management set out in paragraph 6(b), the auditor shall not accept the engagement to report on the 
summary financial statements, unless required by law or regulation to do so. An engagement conducted 
in accordance with such law or regulation does not comply with this SLAuS. Accordingly, the auditor’s 
report on the summary financial statements shall not indicate that the engagement was conducted in 
accordance with this SLAuS. The auditor shall include appropriate r eference to this fact in the terms of 
the engagement. The auditor shall also determine the effect that this may have on the engagement to 
audit the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are derived.  
Nature of Procedures 
8. The auditor shall perform the following procedures, and any other procedures that the auditor may consider 
necessary, as the basis for the auditor’s opinion on the summary financial statements: 
(a) Evaluate whether the summary financial statements adequately dis close their summarized nature and 
identify the audited financial statements. 
(b) When summary financial statements are not accompanied by the audited financial statements, evaluate 
whether they describe clearly:  
(i) From whom or where the audited financial statements are available; or 

<!-- page 382 -->

382A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(ii) The law or regulation that specifies that the audited financial statements need not be made available 
to the intended users of the summary financial statements and establishes the criteria for the 
preparation of the summary financial statements. 
(c) Evaluate whether the summary financial statements adequately disclose the applied criteria. 
(d) Compare the summary financial statements with the related information in the audited financial 
statements to determine whether the summary financial statements agree with or can be recalculated from 
the related information in the audited financial statements. 
(e) Evaluate whether the summary financial statements are prepared in accordance with the applied criteria. 
(f) Evaluate, in view of the purpose of the summary financial statements, whether the summary financial 
statements contain the information necessary, and are at an appropriate level of aggregation, so as not to 
be misleading in the circumstances. 
(g) Evaluate whether the audited financial statements are available to the intended users of the summary 
financial statements without undue difficulty, unless law or regulation provides that they need not be 
made available and establishes the criteria for the preparation of the summary financial statements. (Ref: 
Para. A8) 
Form of Opinion 
9. When the auditor has concluded that an unmodified opinion on the summary financial statements is 
appropriate, the auditor’s opinion shall, unless otherwise required by law or regulation, use one of the 
following phrases: (Ref: Para. A9) 
(a) The accompanying summary financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, with the audited 
financial statements, in accordance with [the applied criteria]; or 
(b) The accompanying summary financial statements are a fair summary of the audited financial statements, 
in accordance with [the applied criteria]. 
10. If law or regulation prescribes the wording of the opinion on summary financial statements in terms that are 
different from those described in paragraph 9, the auditor shall: 
(a) Apply the procedures described in paragraph 8 and any further procedures necessary to enable the auditor 
to express the prescribed opinion; and 
(b) Evaluate whether users of the summary financial statements might misunderstand the auditor’s opinion on 
the summary financial statements and, if so, whether additional explanation in the auditor’s report on the 
summary financial statements can mitigate possible misunderstanding. 
11. If, in the case of paragraph 10(b), the auditor concludes that additional explanation in the auditor’s report on 
the summary financial statements cannot mitigate possible misunderstanding, the auditor shall not accept the 
engagement, unless required by law or regulation to do so. An engagement conducted in accordance with such 
law or regulation does not comply with this SLAuS. Accordingly, the auditor’s report on the summary 
financial statements shall not indicate that the engagement was conducted in accordance with this SLAuS. 
Timing of Work and Events Subsequent to the Date of the Auditor’s Report on the Audited Financial 
Statements 
12. The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements may be dated later than the date of the auditor’s 
report on the audited financial statements. In  such cases, the auditor’s report on the summary financial 

<!-- page 383 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 383A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
statements shall state that the summary financial statements and audited financial statements do not reflect the 
effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements. 
(Ref: Para. A10) 
13. The auditor may become aware of facts that existed at the date of the auditor’s report on the audited 
financial statements, but of which the auditor previously was unaware. In such cases, the auditor sha ll not 
issue the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements until the auditor’s consideration of such 
facts in relation to the audited financial statements in accordance with SLAuS 560 3 has been completed. 
Information in Documents Containing Summary Financial Statements  
14. The auditor shall read the information included in a document containing the summary financial statements 
and the auditor’s report thereon and consider whether there is a material inconsistency between that 
information and the summary financial statements.  
15.  If the auditor identifies a material inconsistency, the auditor shall discuss the matter with management and 
determine whether the summary financial statements or the information included in the document containing 
the summary financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon needs to be revised. If the auditor 
determines that the information needs to be revised and management refuses to revise the information as 
necessary, the auditor shall take appropriate action in the circumstances, including considering the implications 
for the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements. (Ref: Para. A11A16) 
Auditor’s Report on Summary Financial Statements 
Elements of the Auditor’s Report  
16. The auditor’s report on summary financial statements shall include the following elements: 4 (Ref: Para. 
A23) 
(a) A title clearly indicating it as the report of an independent auditor. (Ref: Para. A17) 
(b) An addressee. (Ref: Para. A18) 
(c) Identification of the summary financial statements on which the auditor is reporting, including the title of 
each statement included in the summary financial statements. (Ref: Para. A19) 
(d) Identification of the audited financial statements. 
(e) Subject to paragraph 20, a clear expression of an opinion (see paragraphs 9–11).  
(f) A statement indicating that the summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required 
by the financial reporting framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements, and 
that reading the summary financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon is not a substitute for 
reading the audited financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon. 
(g) Where applicable, the statement required by paragraph 12. 
(h) Reference to the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements, the date of that report, and, subject to 
paragraphs 19–20, the fact that an unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements. 
                                                           
3  SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events 
4  Paragraphs 19–20, which deal with circumstances where the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements has been modified, 
require additional elements to those listed in this paragraph. 

<!-- page 384 -->

384A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(i) A description of management’s5 responsibility for the summary financial statements, explaining that 
management6 is responsible for the preparation of the summary financial statements in accordance 
with the applied criteria. 
(j) A statement that the auditor is resp onsible for expressing an opinion, based on the auditor’s 
procedures conducted in accordance with this SLAuS, on whether the summary financial statements 
are consistent, in all material respects, with [or are a fair summary of ] the audited financial 
statements.  
(k) The auditor’s signature. 
(l) The auditor’s address. 
(m) The date of the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A20) 
17. If the addressee of the summary financial statements is not the same as the addressee of the auditor’s 
report on the audited financial statements, the auditor shall evaluate the appropriateness of using a 
different addressee. (Ref: Para. A18) 
18. The auditor shall date the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements no earlier than: (Ref: Para. 
A20) 
(a) The date on which the auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate evidence on which to base the opinion, 
including evidence that the summary financial statements have been prepared and those with the 
recognized authority have asserted that they have taken responsibility for them; and 
(b) The date of the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements.  
Reference to the Auditor’s Report on the Audited Financial Statements (Ref: Para. A23) 
19. When the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements includes: 
(a) A qualified opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised);
7
 
(b) An Emphasis of Matter paragraph or an Other Matter paragraph in accordance with SLAuS 706 
(Revised);8 
(c) A Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern  section in accord ance with SLAuS 570 
(Revised);9 
(d) Communication of key audit matters in accordance with SLAuS 701;10 or 
(e) A statement that describes an uncorrected material misstatement of the other information in 
accordance with SLAuS 720 (Revised);11 
                                                           
5  Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 
6  Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 
7  SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor's Report 
8  SLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report 
9  SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern, paragraph 22 
10  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report 
11  SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Related to Other Information 

<!-- page 385 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 385A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
and the auditor is satisfied that the summary financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, 
with or are a fair summary of the audited financial statements, in accordance with the applied criteria, the 
auditor’s report on the summary financial statements shall, in addition to the elements in paragraph 16: 
(i) State that the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements includes a qualified opinion, an 
Emphasis of Matter paragraph, an Other Matter paragraph, a Material Uncertainty Related to 
Going Con cern section, communication of key audit matters, or a statement that describes an 
uncorrected material misstatement of the other information; and (Ref: Para. A21)  
(ii) Describe: (Ref: Para. A22) 
a. The basis for the qualified opinion on the audited financ ial statements and the effect 
thereof, if any, on the summary financial statements; 
b. The matter referred to in the Emphasis of Matter paragraph, the Other Matter paragraph, or 
the Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern  section in the auditor’s rep ort on the 
audited financial statements and the effect(s) thereof, if any, on the summary financial 
statements; or 
c. The uncorrected material misstatement of the other information and the effect(s) thereof, if 
any, on the information included in a documen t containing the summary financial 
statements and the auditor’s report thereon. (Ref: Para. A15) 
20. When the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements contains an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of 
opinion, the auditor’s report on the summary f inancial statements shall, in addition to the elements in 
paragraph 16: 
(a) State that the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements contains an adverse opinion or 
disclaimer of opinion; 
(b) Describe the basis for that adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion; and 
(c) State that, as a result of the adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion on the audited financial statements, it 
is inappropriate to express an opinion on the summary financial statements. (Ref: Para. A23) 
Modified Opinion on the Summary Financial Statements 
21. If the summary financial statements are not consistent, in all material respects, with or are not a fair 
summary of the audited financial statements, in accordance with the applied criteria, and management 
does not agree to make the  necessary changes, the auditor shall express an adverse opinion on the 
summary financial statements. (Ref: Para. A23) 
Restriction on Distribution or Use or Alerting Readers to the Basis of Accounting 
22. When distribution or use of the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements is restricted, or the auditor’s 
report on the audited financial statements alerts readers that the audited financial statements are prepared in 
accordance with a special purpose framework, the auditor shall include a similar restriction or alert in the 
auditor’s report on the summary financial statements. 
Comparatives 
23. If the audited financial statements contain comparatives, but the summary financial statements do not, the 
auditor shall determine whether such omission is reasonable in the circumstances of the engagement. The 

<!-- page 386 -->

386A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
auditor shall determine the effect of an unreasonable omission on the auditor’s report on the summary 
financial statements. (Ref: Para. A24) 
24. If the summary financial statements contain comparatives that were reported on by another auditor, the 
auditor’s report on the summary financial statements shall also contain the matters that SLAuS 710 requires 
the auditor to include in the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements.12 (Ref: Para. A25) 
Unaudited Supplementary Information Presented with Summary Financial Statements  
25. The auditor shall evaluate whether any unaudited supplementary information presented with the summary 
financial statements is clearly differentiated from the summary financial statements. If the auditor concludes 
that the entity’s presentation of the unaudited supplementary information is not clearly differentiated from the 
summary financial statements, the auditor shall ask management to change the presentation of the unaudited 
supplementary information. If management refuses to do so, the auditor shall explain in the auditor’s report on 
the summary financial statements that such information is not covered by that report. (Ref: Para. A26) 
Auditor Association 
26. If the auditor becomes aware that the entity plans to state that the auditor has reported on summary 
financial statements in a document containing the summary financial statements, b ut does not plan to 
include the related auditor’s report, the auditor shall request management to include the auditor’s report 
in the document. If management does not do so, the auditor shall determine and carry out other 
appropriate actions designed to pr event management from inappropriately associating the auditor with 
the summary financial statements in that document. (Ref: Para. A27)  
27. The auditor may be engaged to report on the financial statements of an entity, while not engaged to 
report on the su mmary financial statements. If, in this case, the auditor becomes aware that the entity 
plans to make a statement in a document that refers to the auditor and the fact that summary financial 
statements are derived from the financial statements audited by t he auditor, the auditor shall be satisfied 
that: 
(a) The reference to the auditor is made in the context of the auditor’s report on the audited financial 
statements; and 
(b) The statement does not give the impression that the auditor has reported on the summary fi nancial 
statements. 
 If (a) or (b) are not met, the auditor shall request management to change the statement to meet them, or not 
to refer to the auditor in the document. Alternatively, the entity may engage the auditor to report on the 
summary financial statements and include the related auditor’s report in the document. If management does 
not change the statement, delete the reference to the auditor, or include an auditor’s report on the summary 
financial statements in the document containing the summary financial statements, the auditor shall advise 
management that the auditor disagrees with the reference to the auditor, and the auditor shall determine and 
carry out other appropriate actions designed to prevent management from inappropriately referring to  the 
auditor. (Ref: Para. A27)  
*** 
                                                           
12  SLAuS 710, Comparative Information—Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements 

<!-- page 387 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 387A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Engagement Acceptance (Ref: Para. 5–6) 
A1. The audit of the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are derived provides the 
auditor with the necessary knowledge to discharge the auditor’s responsibilities in relation to the summary 
financial statements in accordance with this SLAuS. Application of this SLAuS will not provide sufficient 
appropriate evidence on which to base the opinion on the summary financial statements if the auditor has not 
also audited the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are derived. 
A2. Management’s agreement with the matters described in paragraph 6 may be evidenced by its written 
acceptance of the terms of the engagement. 
Criteria (Ref: Para. 6(a)) 
A3. The preparation of summary financial statements requires management to determine the information that 
needs to be reflected in the summary financial statements so that they are consistent, in all material 
respects, with or represent a fair summary of the audited financial statements. Because summary 
financial statements by  their nature contain aggregated information and limited disclosure, there is an 
increased risk that they may not contain the information necessary so as not to be misleading in the 
circumstances. This risk increases when established criteria for the prepa ration of summary financial 
statements do not exist. 
A4. Factors that may affect the auditor’s determination of the acceptability of the applied criteria include:  
  The nature of the entity; 
  The purpose of the summary financial statements; 
  The information needs of the intended users of the summary financial statements; and 
  Whether the applied criteria will result in summary financial statements that are not misleading in the 
circumstances. 
A5. The criteria for the preparation of summary financial statemen ts may be established by an authorized or 
recognized standards setting organization or by law or regulation. Similar to the case of financial 
statements, as explained in SLAuS 210, 13 in many such cases, the auditor may presume that such criteria 
are acceptable.  
A6. Where established criteria for the preparation of summary financial statements do not exist, criteria may 
be developed by management, for example, based on practice in a particular industry. Criteria that are 
acceptable in the circumstances will result in summary financial statements that: 
(a) Adequately disclose their summarized nature and identify the audited financial statements;  
(b) Clearly describe from whom or where the audited financial statements are available or, if law or 
regulation provides that the audited financial statements need not be made available to the intended 
users of the summary financial statements and establishes the criteria for the preparation of the 
summary financial statements, that law or regulation; 
(c) Adequately disclose the applied criteria; 
                                                           
13  SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements, paragraphs A3 and A8–A9 

<!-- page 388 -->

388A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
(d) Agree with or can be recalculated from the related information in the audited financial statements; 
and 
(e) In view of the purpose of the summary financial statements, contain the information necessary, and 
are at an appropriate level of aggregation, so as not to be misleading in the circumstances. 
A7. Adequate disclosure of the summarized nature of the summary financial statements and the identity of 
the audited financial statements, as referred to in paragraph A6(a), may, for example, be pr ovided by a 
title such as ―Summary Financial Statements Prepared from the Audited Financial Statements for the 
Year Ended December 31, 20X1.‖ 
Evaluating the Availability of the Audited Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 8(g)) 
A8. The auditor’s evaluation whe ther the audited financial statements are available to the intended users of 
the summary financial statements without undue difficulty is affected by factors such as whether:  
  The summary financial statements describe clearly from whom or where the audited  financial 
statements are available; 
  The audited financial statements are on public record; or 
  Management has established a process by which the intended users of the summary financial 
statements can obtain ready access to the audited financial statements. 
Form of Opinion (Ref: Para. 9) 
A9. A conclusion, based on an evaluation of the evidence obtained by performing the procedures in paragraph 8, 
that an unmodified opinion on the summary financial statements is appropriate enables the auditor to express 
an opinion containing one of the phrases in paragraph 9. The auditor’s decision as to which of the phrases to 
use may be affected by generally accepted practice in the particular jurisdiction. 
Timing of Work and Events Subsequent to the Date of the Auditor’s Report on the Audited Financial 
Statements (Ref: Para. 12) 
A10. The procedures described in paragraph 8 are often performed during or immediately after the audit of the 
financial statements. When the auditor reports on the summary financial statements after the completion of 
the audit of the financial statements, the auditor is not required to obtain additional audit evidence on the 
audited financial statements, or report on the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of the 
auditor’s report on the audited financial statements since the summary financial statements are derived from 
the audited financial statements and do not update them. 
Information in Documents Containing Summary Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 14–15)  
A11. SLAuS 720 (Revised) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to other information in an audit of 
financial statements. In the context of SLAuS 720 (Revised), other information is financial or non-financial 
information (other than financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon) included in an entity’s annual 
report. An annual report contains or accompanies the financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon. 
A12. In contrast, paragraphs 14–15 deal with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to information included in a 
document that also contains the summary financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon. This 
information may include: 
 Some or all of the same matters as those dealt with in the other information included in the annual 

<!-- page 389 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 389A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
report (e.g., when the summary financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon are included in a 
summary annual report); or 
 Matters that are not dealt with in the other information included in the annual report. 
A13.  In reading the information included in a document containing the summary financial statements and the 
auditor’s report thereon, the auditor may become aware that such information is misleading and may need to 
take appropriate action. Relevant ethical requirements 14 require the auditor to avoid being knowingly 
associated with information that the auditor believes contains a materially false or misleading statement, 
statements or information furnished recklessly, or omits or obscures information required to be included 
where such omission or obscurity would be misleading. 
Information in a Document Containing the Summary Financial Statements that Deals with Some or All of the Same 
Matters as the Other Information in the Annual Report 
A14. When information is included in a document containing the summary financial statements and the auditor’s 
report thereon and that information deals with some or all of the same matters as the other infor mation 
included in the annual report, the work performed on that other information in accordance with SLAuS 720 
(Revised) may be adequate for the purposes of paragraphs 14–15 of this SLAuS.  
A15. When an uncorrected material misstatement of the other information has been identified in the auditor’s 
report on the audited financial statements and that uncorrected material misstatement relates to a matter that 
is dealt with in the information in a document containing the summary financial statements and the auditor’s 
report thereon, a material inconsistency between the summary financial statements and that information may 
exist or the information may be misleading. 
Information in a Document Containing the Summary Financial Statements that Deals with Matters Not Dealt with 
in the Other Information in the Annual Report 
A16. SLAuS 720 (Revised), adapted as necessary in the circumstances, may be helpful to the auditor in 
determining the appropriate action to respond to management’s refusal to make necessary revisions to the 
information, including considering the implications for the  auditor’s report on the summary financial 
statements. 
Auditor’s Report on Summary Financial Statements 
Elements of the Auditor’s Report 
Title (Ref: Para. 16(a)) 
A17. A title indicating the report is the report of an independent auditor, for example, ―Report of the Independent 
Auditor,‖ affirms that the auditor has met all of the relevant ethical requirements regarding independence. 
This distinguishes the report of the independent auditor from reports issued by others. 
Addressee (Ref: Para. 16(b), 17) 
A18. Factors that may affect the auditor’s evaluation of the appropriateness of the addressee of the summary 
financial statements include the terms of the engagement, the nature of the entity, and the purpose of 
the summary financial statements. 
                                                           
14  Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code), paragraph 110.2 

<!-- page 390 -->

390A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Identification of the Summary Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 16(c)) 
A19. When the auditor is aware that the summary financial statements will be included in a document that 
contains information other than the summary financial statements and the auditor’s report thereo n, the 
auditor may consider, if the form of presentation allows, identifying the page numbers on which the 
summary financial statements are presented. This helps readers to identify the summary financial statements 
to which the auditor’s report relates. 
Date of the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 16(m), 18) 
A20. The person or persons with recognized authority to conclude that the summary financial statements 
have been prepared and take responsibility for them depend on the terms of the engagement, the nature 
of the entity, and the purpose of the summary financial statements. 
Reference to the Auditor’s Report on the Audited Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 19)  
A21. Paragraph 19(i) of this SLAuS  requires the auditor to include a statement in the auditor’s report on the 
summary financial statements when the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements includes 
communication of one or more key audit matters described in accordance with SLAuS 701.15 However, 
the auditor is not required to describe the individual key audit matters in the auditor’s report on the 
summary financial statements. 
A22. The statement(s) and description(s) required by paragraph 19 are intended to draw attention to those  
matters and are not a substitute for reading the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements. The 
required descriptions are intended to convey the nature of the matter(s), and need not repeat the 
corresponding text in the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements in its entirety. 
Illustrations (Ref: Para. 16, 19–21) 
A23. The Appendix to this SLAuS contains illustrations of auditors’ reports on summary financial 
statements that variously: 
(a) Contain unmodified opinions; 
(b) Are derived from audited financial statements on which the auditor issued modified opinions;  
(c) Contain a modified opinion; 
(d) Are derived from audited financial statements where the auditor’s report thereon includes a 
statement describing an uncorrected material misstatement of the other information in accordance 
with SLAuS 720 (Revised); and 
(e) Are derived from audited financial statements where the auditor’s report thereon includes a 
Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern  section and communication of other key audit 
matters. 
Comparatives (Ref: Para. 23–24) 
A24. If the audited financial statements contain comparatives, there is a presumption that the summary 
financial statements also would contain comparatives. Comparatives in the audited financial statements 
may be regarded as corresponding figures or as comparative financial information. SLAuS 710 
                                                           
15 SLAuS 701, paragraph 13 

<!-- page 391 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 391A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
describes how this difference affects the auditor’s report on the financial statements, including, in 
particular, reference to other auditors who audited the financial statements for the prior period. 
A25. Circumstances that may affect the auditor’s determination whether an omission of comparatives is 
reasonable include the nature and objective of the summary financial statements, the applied criteria, 
and the information needs of the intended users of the summary financial statements. 
Unaudited Supplementary Information Presented with Summary Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 25) 
A26. SLAuS 700 (Revised)
16
 contains requirements and guidance to be applied wh en unaudited 
supplementary information is presented with audited financial statements that, adapted as necessary in 
the circumstances, may be helpful in applying the requirement in paragraph 25.  
Auditor Association (Ref: Para. 26–27) 
A27. Other appropriate actions the auditor may take when management does not take the requested action may 
include informing the intended users and other known third-party users of the inappropriate reference to the 
auditor. The auditor’s course of action depends on the auditor’s legal rights and obligations. Consequently, 
the auditor may consider it appropriate to seek legal advice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
16  SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements, paragraphs 53–54 

<!-- page 392 -->

392A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Appendix 
(Ref: Para. A23) 
Illustrations of Independent Auditor’s Reports on Summary Financial Statements 
 Illustration 1: An auditor’s report on summary financial statements prepared in accordance with established 
criteria. An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements. The auditor’s report on the 
summary financial statements is dated later than the date of the auditor’s report on the financial statements 
from which summary financial statements are derived. The auditor's report on the audited financial statements 
includes a Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section and communication of other key audit 
matters. 
 Illustration 2: An auditor’s report on summary financial statements prepared in accordance with criteria 
developed by management and adequately disclosed in the summary financial statements. The auditor has 
determined that the applied criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. An unmodified opinion is expressed 
on the audited financial statements. The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated the same 
as the date of the auditor’s report on the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are 
derived. The auditor’s report on the audited financial statements includes a statement that describes an 
uncorrected material misstatement of the other information. The other information to which this uncorrected 
material misstatement relates is also information included in a document containing the summary financial 
statements and the auditor’s report thereon. 
 Illustration 3: An auditor’s report on summary financial statements prepared in accordance with criteria 
developed by management and adequately disclosed in the summary financial statements. The auditor has 
determined that the applied criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. A qualified opinion is expressed on the 
audited financial statements. The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated the same as the 
date of the auditor’s report on the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are 
derived. 
 Illustration 4: An auditor’s report on summary financial statements prepared in accordance with criteria 
developed by management and adequately disclosed in the summary financial statements. The auditor has 
determined that the applied criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. An adverse opinion is expressed on 
the audited financial statements. The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated the same as 
the date of the auditor’s report on the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are 
derived. 
 Illustration 5: An auditor’s report on summary financial statements prepared in accordance with established 
criteria. An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements. The auditor concludes that it 
is not possible to express an unmodified opinion on the summary financial statements. The auditor’s report on 
the summary financial statements is dated the same as the date of the auditor’s report on the financial 
statements from which the summary financial statements are derived. 
  

<!-- page 393 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 393A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
Illustration 1: 
Circumstances include the following: 
  An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements of a listed entity. 
  Established criteria for the preparation of summary financial statements exist.  
  The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated later than the da te of the 
auditor’s report on the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are 
derived.  
  The auditor’s report on the audited financial statements includes a Material Uncertainty 
Related to Going Concern section. 
  The auditor’s report on the audited financial statements includes communication of other key 
audit matters.17 
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
[Appropriate Addressee] 
Opinion  
The summary financial statements, which comprise the summary balance sheet as at December 31, 20X1, the 
summary income statement, summary statement of changes in equity and summary cash flow statement for the 
year then ended, and related notes, are derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company for the year 
ended December 31, 20X1.  
In our opinion, the accompanying summary financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, with 
(or a fair summary of) the audited financial statements, in accordance with [describe established criteria].  
Summary Financial Statements 
The summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by [describe financial reporting 
framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements of ABC Company]. Reading the summary 
financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial 
statements and the auditor’s report thereon. The summary financial statements and the audited financial 
statements do not reflect the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our report on the audited 
financial statements.  
The Audited Financial Statements and Our Report Thereon 
We expressed an unmodified audit opinion on the audited financial statements in our report dated February 15, 
20X2. That report also includes: 
 A Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section that draws attention to Note 6 in the audited 
financial statements. Note 6 of the audited financial statements indicates that ABC Company incurred a net 
loss of ZZZ during the year ended December 31, 20X1 and, as of that date, ABC Company’s current liabilities 
exceeded its total assets by YYY. These events or conditions, along with other matters as set forth in Note 6 of 
the audited financial statements, indicate that a material uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on 
                                                           
17  As explained in paragraph 15 of SLAuS 701, a material uncertainty related to going concern is, by its nature, a key audit matter but 
is required to be reported in a separate section of the auditor’s report in accordance with paragraph 22 of SLAuS 570 (Revised). 

<!-- page 394 -->

394A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
ABC Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. These matters are addressed in Note 5 of the 
summary financial statements. 
 The communication of other18 key audit matters. [Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period.]19 
Management’s20 Responsibility for the Summary Financial Statements 
Management is responsible fo r the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with [describe 
established criteria]. 
Auditor’s Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on whether the summary financial statements are consistent, in all 
material respects, with (or are a fair summary of) the audited financial statements based on our procedures, which 
were conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810 (Revised), Engagements to Report 
on Summary Financial Statements. 
[Auditor’s signature] 
[Auditor’s address] 
[Date of the auditor’s report] 
 
Illustration 2: 
Circumstances include the following: 
  An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements.  
  Criteria are developed by management and adequately disclosed in Note X. The auditor has 
determined that the criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. 
  The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated the same as the date of the 
auditor’s report on the financial statements from which the summary financial state ments are 
derived.  
  The auditor’s report on the audited financial statements includes a statement that describes an 
uncorrected material misstatement of the other information. The other information to which 
this uncorrected material misstatement relates i s also information included in a document 
containing the summary financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon.  
 
 
 
                                                           
18 In the circumstances where there is no material uncertainty related to going concern, inclusion of the word "other" in the statem ent 
for the communication of key audit matters would not be necessary. 
19  The auditor may include additional explanation about key audit matters considered helpful to users of the auditor’s report on the 
summary financial statements. 
20  Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 395 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 395A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
[Appropriate Addressee] 
Opinion 
The summary financial statements, which comprise the summary balance sheet as at December 31, 20X1, the 
summary income statement, summary statement of changes in equity and summary cash flow statement for 
the year then ended, and related notes, are derived from the audited financial state ments of ABC Company 
for the year ended December 31, 20X1. 
In our opinion, the accompanying  summary financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, with 
(or a fair summary of) the audited financial statements, on the basis described in Note X. 
Summary Financial Statements 
The summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by [describe financial reporting 
framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements of ABC Company]. Reading the summary 
financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial 
statements and the auditor’s report thereon. 
The Audited Financial Statements and Our Report Thereon 
We expressed an unmodified audit opinio n on the audited financial statements in our report dated February 
15, 20X2. [The audited financial statements are included in the 20X1 Annual Report. The auditor’s report on 
the audited financial statements includes a statement that describes an uncorrect ed material misstatement of 
other information within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the 20X1 Annual Report. Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis, and the uncorrected material misstatement of the other information therein, are also 
contained in the  20X1 Summary Annual Report.] [ Describe the uncorrected material misstatement of the 
other information].  
Management’s21 Responsibility for the Summary Financial Statements 
Management is responsible for the preparation of the summary financial statements on  the basis described in 
Note X. 
Auditor’s Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on whether the summary financial statements are consistent, in all 
material respects, with (or are a fair summary of) the audited financial statements based on our procedures, which 
were conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810 (Revised), Engagements to Report 
on Summary Financial Statements. 
[Auditor’s signature] 
[Auditor’s address] 
[Date of the auditor’s report]  
                                                           
21  Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 396 -->

396A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
Illustration 3: 
Circumstances include the following: 
  A qualified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements. 
  Criteria are developed by management and adequately disclosed in Note X. The auditor has 
determined that the criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. 
  The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated the same as the date of the 
auditor’s report on the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are 
derived.  
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
[Appropriate Addressee] 
Opinion 
The summary financial statements, which comprise the summary statement of financial position as at 
December 31, 20X1, the summary statement of comprehensive income, summary statement of changes in  
equity and summary statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and related notes, are derived from the 
audited financial statements of ABC Company (the Company) for the year ended December 31, 20X1. We 
expressed a qualified audit opinion on those financial statements in our report dated February 15, 20X2.22 
In our opinion, the accompanying summary financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, with 
(or a fair summary of ) the audited financial statements, on the basis described in Note X . However, the 
summary financial statements are misstated to the equivalent extent as the audited financial statements of 
ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1.  
Summary Financial Statements 
The summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by [describe financial reporting 
framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements of ABC Company]. Reading the 
summary financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a substitute fo r reading the 
audited financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon. 
The Audited Financial Statements and Our Report Thereon 
We expressed a qualified audit opinion on the audited financial statements in our report dated February 15, 
20X2. The basis  for our qualified audit opinion was [that  management has not stated the inventories at the 
lower of cost and net realizable value but has stated them solely at cost, which constitutes a departure from 
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards] . The Company’s records  indicate that had management stated the 
inventories at the lower of cost and net realizable value, an amount of xxx would have been required to write 
the inventories down to their net realizable value. Accordingly, cost of sales would have been increased by 
xxx, and income tax, net income and shareholders’ equity would have been reduced by xxx, xxx and xxx, 
respectively.  
                                                           
22  The positioning of this reference to the qualified opinion in the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements in the  Opinion 
paragraph on the summary financial statements assists users in understanding that although the auditor has expressed an unmodified 
opinion on the summary financial statements, the summary financial statements reflect audited financial statements that are 
materially misstated. 

<!-- page 397 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 397A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
Management’s23 Responsibility for the Summary Financial Statements 
Management is responsible for the preparation of the summary financial statements on the basis described in 
Note X. 
Auditor’s Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on whether the summary financial statements are consistent, in all 
material respects, with (or are a fair summary of) the audited financial statements based on our procedures, which 
were conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810  (Revised), Engagements to 
Report on Summary Financial Statements. 
[Auditor’s signature] 
[Auditor’s address] 
[Date of the auditor’s report] 
 
Illustration 4: 
Circumstances include the following: 
  An adverse opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements.  
  Criteria are developed by management and adequately disclosed in Note X. The auditor has 
determined that the criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. 
  The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated the same as the date of the 
auditor’s report on the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are 
derived.  
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
[Appropriate Addressee] 
Denial of Opinion 
The summary financial statements, which comprise the summary balance sheet as at December 31, 20X1, the 
summary income statement, summary statement of changes  in equity and summary cash flow statement for 
the year then ended, and related notes, are derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company 
for the year ended December 31, 20X1. 
As a result of the adverse opinion on the audited financial statem ents discussed in The Audited Financial 
Statements and our Report Thereon  section of our report, it is inappropriate to express an opinion on the 
accompanying summary financial statements. 
Summary Financial Statements 
The summary financial statements do no t contain all the disclosures required by [describe financial reporting 
framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements of ABC Company]. Reading the summary 
                                                           
23  Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 398 -->

398A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
 
 
financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial 
statements and the auditor’s report thereon. 
The Audited Financial Statements and Our Report Thereon 
In our report dated February 15, 20X2, we expressed an adverse opinion on the audited financial statements 
of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1. The basis for our adverse opinion was [describe 
basis for adverse audit opinion]. 
Management’s24 Responsibility for the Summary Financial Statements 
Management is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements on the basis described in Note X. 
Auditor’s Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on whether the summary financial statements are consistent, in all 
material respects, with (or are a fair summary of) the audited financial statements based on our procedures, which 
were conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810 (Revised), Engagements to Report 
on Summary Financial Statements. 
[Auditor’s signature] 
[Auditor’s address] 
[Date of the auditor’s report] 
 
Illustration 5: 
Circumstances include the following: 
  An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements.  
  Established criteria for the preparation of summary financial statements exist.  
  The auditor concludes that it is not possible to express an unmodified opinion on the summary 
financial statements. 
  The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated the same as the date of the 
auditor’s report on the financial statements from which the summary financial stat ements are 
derived. 
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
[Appropriate Addressee] 
Adverse Opinion 
The summary financial statements, which comprise the summary balance sheet as at December 31, 20X1, the 
summary income statem ent, summary statement of changes in equity and summary cash flow statement for 
the year then ended, and related notes, are derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company 
for the year ended December 31, 20X1. 
                                                           
24  Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 

<!-- page 399 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'12 399A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -12.01.2018 
 
 
In our opinion, because of the si gnificance of the matter described in the Basis for Adverse Opinion  section, 
the accompanying summary financial statements are not consistent with (or a fair summary of) the audited 
financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1, in accordance with [describe  
established criteria]. 
Basis for Adverse Opinion 
[Describe matter that caused the summary financial statements not to be consistent, in all material respects, 
with (or a fair summary of) the audited financial statements, in accordance with the applied criteria. 
Summary Financial Statements 
The summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by [describe financial reporting 
framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements of ABC Company]. Reading the summary 
financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial 
statements and the auditor’s report thereon. 
The Audited Financial Statements and Our Report Thereon 
We expressed an unmodified audit opinion on the audited financial statements in our report dated February 
15, 20X2.  
Management’s25 Responsibility for the Summary Audited Financial Statements 
Management is responsible for the preparation of the summary financi al statements in accordance with 
[describe established criteria]. 
Auditor’s Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on whether the summary financial statements are consistent, in all 
material respects, with (or are a fair summary of) the audited financial statements based on our procedures, which 
were conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810 (Revised), Engagements to Report 
on Summary Financial Statements. 
[Auditor’s signature] 
[Auditor’s address] 
[Date of the auditor’s report] 
 
 
 
 
 
25 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction 
 
 
 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 