

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.12.2012
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1789$22 - 2012 foieïn¾ ui 19 jeks nodod - 2012'12'19
No. 1789/22 - WEDNESDAY  DECEMBER   19,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT,  No. 14 OF 2008
Order under Sub - Section (4)  of  Section  3
BY VIRTUE  of the powers vested in me by Sub- section  (4) of Section  3 of the Strategic Development Projects Act,     No.
14 of 2008 as amended  I, Basil Rohana Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Development, being the Minister in charge of the
subjects of  Investment and Tourism, do by this Order declared that :–
(1) The Notification which  identified the Project to construct and operate a 475 roomed city hotel with 90
Serviced Apartments at No. 116, Galle Road, Colombo 03 in the Western province, as a Strategic Development
Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, was published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1771/18 dated
15th August 2012 ;
(2) The approval of the Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained in terms of Sub - section (3) of Section 3 to declare
that the Project to construct and operate a 475 roomed city hotel with 90 Serviced Apartments at No. 116, Galle
Road, Colombo 03 in the Western Province, as a Strategic Development Project ;
(3) The above Strategic Development Project shall be called and known as the ‘‘Project to construct and operate
a 475 roomed city hotel with 90 Serviced Apartments at No. 116, Galle Road, Colombo 03 in the Western
Province’’ and that the Project Company is Sinolanka Hotels and Spa (Private) Limited ;
(4) The aforesaid ‘‘ Project to construct and operate a 475 roomed city hotel with 90 Serviced Apartments at
No. 116, Galle Road, Colombo 03 in the Western Province’’ shall commence commercial operations within
Twenty Four (24) months from the date of the Project Agreement signed with the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka on 19th July 2012 ; and
(5) The exemptions from the enactments specified in the Schedule to this Order shall apply to the Project Company
subject to the limitations noted therein.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.12.2012
2A
 SCHEDULE
(a) The Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006.
(i) The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax
of the Project Company on the profit from the project shall not apply for a period of ten (10) years
(‘‘Tax Exemption Period’’). The tax on dividends distributed to shareholders out of profits shall be
exempted from income tax during the said Tax Exemption Period and one year thereafter.
(ii) The said exemption period to commence from the first year in which the Project Company makes
taxable profit or three (03) years after commencement of commercial operations, whichever falls
first.
(iii) After the expiration of the aforesaid tax exemption period referred to above the profits and income
of the Project Company shall be charged at the rate of the lower of six percentum (6%) or one half
of the prevailing tax rate for the hotel industry, for a period of fifteen (15) years immediately
succeeding the last date of the Tax Exemption Period (‘‘Tax Concessionary Period’’).
(iv) Provided that after the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period and Tax Concessionary
Period referred to above, income tax in respect of the profits and income of the Project Company
shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.
(v) The expatriate staff of the Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of Pay As
You Earn Tax (PAYE) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the
maximum number of 20 employees. This concession shall be applicable for a period of five years
from the date of commencement of commercial operations. The Project Company shall be required
to gradually replace expatriate staff with local employees on a best efforts basis.
(vi) The Project Company shall be exempt from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following :
(a) on interest on foreign loans taken for capital expenditure.
(b) on technical fees to consultants.
(c) on management fees, royalty payments and marketing fees, provided these payments
are made to any subsidiary or associate of Hyatt Hotel Corporation, USA including :
Hyatt International South West Asia Ltd.
Hyatt International Corporation
Hyatt Chain Services Ltd.
International Reservation Ltd.
HGP Travel Ltd.
Provided management and royalty fees does not exceed 3% of gross operating revenue, marketing
fees does not exceed 1.5% of gross operating revenue and incentive management fees does not
exceed 10% gross operating profits.
(b) The Value Added Tax Act (V AT) No. 14 of 2002
The payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) on the importation of project related goods and the local
purchases of project related goods and services during the Project Implementation Period be fully
exempted from charge and payment of V AT. The V AT exemption shall be applicable not only for direct
supplies to the Company/Project but also supplies made by a sub contractor to a contractor approved
by the Project Company as described and permitted in the V AT Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.12.2012
3A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
The Company shall be liable for the payment of V AT on value of supply as defined in the V AT Act
No. 14 of 2002 on the commencement of commercial operations.
(c) The Port and Airport Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
The Company shall be exempted from the payment of Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL) on all
items imported for implementing the Project (whether directly imported by the Company or sourced
through contractors) as described and permitted in the Airports Development Levy Act as amended,
during the Project Implementation Period.
(d) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
All imports of project related items required for the Project, whether directly imported by the Project
Company or sourced through contractors provided that the goods are consigned in the name of the
Company shall be exempted from customs duty as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka for
the purpose of the Project during the implementation period.
B
ASIL ROHANA RAJAPAKSA, M.P.
Colombo, Minister of Economic Development.
On this 17th day of December 2012.
01–88