

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
ශී  ලංකා  පජාතාන්තික  සමාජවාදී   ජනරජෙය්  ගැසට්  පතය 
අති විෙශෂ   
අංක 2258/18 - 2021 ෙදසැම්බර් මස 14 වැනි අඟහරුවාදා  - 2021.12.14 
 
No. 2258/18 –  TUESDAY, DECEMBER,  14,  2021 
EXTRAORDINARY 
 
PART I : SECTION (I)  — GENERAL 
 
Government Notifications 
 
INLAND REVENUE ACT, No. 24 of 2017 
 
 
NOTICE UNDER PARAGRAPH 10 OF SIXTH SCHEDULE   
 
 
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under item (c) and (e) of subparagraph (2) of Paragraph 10 of Sixth Schedule to the 
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 (herein after referred to as the Act) amended by the Inland Revenue (Amendment) 
Act, No. 10 of 2021, I, Herath Mudiyanselage Wijaya Chandrathilaka Bandara do by this Notification, specify the mode 
of calculation of local value addition for goods and services in SCHEDULE 1 hereto. for the purposes of the item (c) of 
subparagraph (2) of Paragraph 10 of Sixth Schedule and the requirements to maintain records, source documents and 
underlying documents for the purposes of the item (e) of subparagraph (2) of Paragraph 10 of Sixth Schedule in 
SCHEDULE 2 hereto.  
 
 
 H
ERATH MUDIYANSELAGE WIJAYA CHANDRATHILAKA BANDARA, 
 Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. 
  
Inland Revenue Department, 
Colombo, 
13th, December, 2021. 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
1A - G 35563  - 12 (12/2021) 
(Published by Authority) 

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I ෙකොටස - (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.12.14 
PART I –  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2021 
SCHEDULE 
 
1. Local value addition shall be calculated by the person who sell goods, as follows :- 
 
 (a) The person who sells goods manufa ctured in Sri Lanka by such person 
 
 (i) Subject to the conditions in items ( ii), (iii) and (iv) of this subparagraph, such person is required to compute 
the local value addition for any year of assessment based on the following formula, using the actual amounts 
of the year of assessment immediately preceding that year of assessment.  
 
  Local Value Addition percentage for the purpose of item (c) of subparagraph 
(2) of Paragraph 10 of Sixth Schedule to the Act for  goods manufactured in 
Sri Lanka for the year of assessment under consideration. 
 
  Where : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) For the purpose of formula referred to in item (i), Petrol, Diesel, Kerosene and Liquid Petroleum Gas 
are not considered as imported materials. 
 
 (iii) If any service or material is used commonly fo r all business activities of the person, the total of such 
service cost or material cost shall be apportioned based on the turnover of respective goods or services, 
for the purpose of above calculation. 
 
 (iv) Value Added Tax charged as output tax or deducted as input tax in terms of the provisions of the 
Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002, shall not be considered for the amounts in above calculation. 
 
 (b)  If the local value addition calculated under subparagraph (a) is less than 65% or the relevant good has not been 
manufactured by the person during the year of assessment immediately preceding that year of assessment, such 
person is allowed to compute the local value addition for such goods based on the formula under the 
subparagraph (a) above, using the amounts in current year of assessment in relation to such goods and such value 
addition calculation prevails for the purpose of item (c) of subparagraph (2) of Paragraph 10 of Sixth Schedule to 
the Act. 
 
  Provided however, this subparagraph has no application in respect of any goods which has been considered for 
the local value addition calculated under above subparagraph (a) and applied for any previous year of assessment. 
 
 (c)  The person who sells any goods manufactured in Sri Lanka by any other person 
 
  If such person undertakes the marketing and communication activities for relevant goods, confirmation should be 
obtained from the manufacturer with a local value addition percentage calculated as in the above subparagraph (a) 
or (b), for the purpose of item (c) of subparagraph (2) of Paragraph 10 of Sixth Schedule to the Act. Such 
confirmation shall be deemed as a statement to a tax official by the person who manufactures relevant goods and 
by the person who sells such goods. 
'E' is equal to A - (B+C+D); 
'A' is the total value of sales of the respective goods;  
'B' is the total cost of directly imported materials used to produce such goods;  
'C' is the total cost of imported materials purchased from the local supplier who imported such 
materials and used to produce such goods; and 
'D' is the total cost of any service including any royalty, interest, management fees or head office 
expenses, paid or payable to a person outside Sri Lanka in relation to such goods. 
=    E x 100 
      A 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A I ෙකොටස - (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.12.14 
PART I –  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2021 
  Provided that, any person who gives any confirmation to another person under this subparagraph, shall maintain 
the records with respect to the calculation of local value addition of his product. 
 
2. Local value addition shall be calc ulated by the person who supplies services (including mixed and composite 
services with goods) as follows :- 
 
 (a) The person who supplies services includi ng mixed and composite services with goods 
 
 (i) Subject to the conditions in item (ii), (iii), (iv) an d (v) of this subparagraph, such person is required to 
compute the local value addition for any year of assessment, based on the following formula using the actual 
amounts of the year of assessment immediately preceding that year of assessment.  
 
  Local Value Addition percentage for the purpose of item (c) of subparagraph 
(2) of Paragraph 10 of Sixth Schedule to the Act for services supplied for the 
year of assessment under consideration. 
 
  Where :  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (ii) For the purpose of formula referred to in item (i), Petrol, Diesel, Kerosene and Liquid Petroleum Gas 
are not considered as imported materials. 
 
 (iii) If any service or material is used commonly for all business activities of the person, the total of such 
service cost or material cost shall be apportioned based on the turnover of respective goods or services, 
for the purpose of above calculation. 
 
 (iv) Value Added Tax charged as output tax or deducted as input tax in terms of the provisions of the Value 
Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002, shall not be considered for the amounts in above calculation. 
 
 (v) If the marketing and communication expenses incurr ed by a person is separately identifiable for each 
service when the person supplying different services, then, such person shall perform separate 
calculations for each relevant service. 
 
 (b)  If the local value addition calculated under subparagraph (a) is less than 65% or the relevant service has not been 
provided by the person during the year of assessment im mediately preceding that year of assessment, such person 
is allowed to compute the local value addition for such service based on the formula under the subparagraph (a) 
above, using the current year amounts in relation to such  service and such value add ition calculation prevails for 
the purpose of item (c) of subparagraph (2) of Paragraph 10 of Sixth Schedule to the Act. 
 
  Provided however, this subparagraph has no application in respect of any service which has been considered for 
the local value addition calculated under above subparagraph (a) and applied for any previous year of assessment. 
'E' is equal to A - (B+C+D); 
'A' is the total gross service income of the respective service;  
'B' is the total cost of directly imported materials, if any, used for such service;  
'C' is the total cost of imported materials purchased from the local suppliers who imported such 
materials, if any, used for such service; and 
'D' is the total cost of any service including any royalty, interest, management fees or head office 
expenses, paid or payable to a person outside Sri Lanka in relation to such service income. 
=    E x 100 
      A 

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A I ෙකොටස - (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.12.14 
PART I –  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2021 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Following documents and records shall be maintained by the person who intends to deduct the additional deduction as 
provided in subparagraph (1) of Paragraph 10 of Sixth Schedule to the Act. 
 
 1. List of Marketing and Communication expenses deducted under section 15A of the Act as per following format. 
 
 
 2. List of Marketing and Communication expenses which were not considered (under item (a) and (b) of 
subparagraph (2) of Paragraph 10 of Sixth Schedule) for additional deduction under subparagraph (1) of Paragraph 
10 of Sixth Schedule to Act, as per following format. 
 
 3. List of associated person s for the year of assessment. 
 
 4. Worksheets for the calculation of local value addition in accordance with SCHEDULE 1 for each good or service. 
 
 5. Every expenditure shall be supported by an agreement/ contract specifying the name of the supplier, address of 
the supplier, Tax Identification Number of the supplier, detailed scope of the service provided, fees and other 
terms and conditions. 
 
 6. All expenses should be supported by appropriate invoices/ tax invoices clearly describing the services provided 
and linked to a contract/ agreement as mentioned in item 5 above. 
 
 
EOG 12 - 0139 
Date of 
expenditure 
Trade name of 
good or service for 
which the 
expenditure 
incurred 
Nature of good or 
service for which 
the expenditure 
incurred 
Invoice/ Bill 
No. 
Payee Nature of 
Marketing and 
Communication 
Service obtained 
Amount 
paid 
       
       
Date of 
expenditure 
Trade name of 
good or service for 
which the 
expenditure 
incurred 
Nature of good or 
service for which 
the expenditure 
was incurred 
Invoice/ Bill 
No. 
Payee Nature of 
Marketing and 
Communication 
Service obtained 
Amount 
paid 
       
       