

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of October 15, 2021
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 18.10.2021)
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
A
MABOTUWANA SRI PIYARATHANA
NAYAKA THERO SUWASEVANA
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Asanka Navarathna, M. P. for
Kurunegala District
to incorporate the Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MABOTUWANA SRI PIYARATHANA
NAYAKA THERO SUWASEVANA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an  Foundation called and known as the
“Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero Suwasevana
Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the
purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transacting
all matters  connected with the said T rust according to the
rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said F oundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established, and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be expedient to grant the said
application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Mabotuwana Sri
Piyarathana Nayaka Thero Suwasevana Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2021.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero Suwasevana
Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the “Mabotuwana
Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero Suwasevana Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”) and by that
name may sue and be sued, with full power and  authority to
have and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate
is constituted are hereby declared to be—
Preamble.
Short title
Incorporation
of the
Mabotuwana
Sri
Piyarathana
Nayaka
Thero
Suwasevana
Foundation
5
10
15
20
25
General
objects of the
body
corporate

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
(a) to give temporary residential facilities to patients
from various areas of Sri Lanka suffering from
dreadful non – communicable diseases to the
Karapitiya Hospital for treatment;
(b) to operate a day care Centre for disabled and back -
ward children;
(c) to operate a library for making available library
facilities for the mental comfort of residents;
(d) to provide the residents with a meal prepared in a
safe manner and according to proper standard free
of charge;
(e) to provide each patient facilities separately, such as
fridges necessary to properly store medicines etc,
that should be administered daily to patients and
operating a support service to give each patient the
prescribed doses of medicine at the specrified
time;
(f) to provide free accommodation facilities to relatives,
friends or acquaintances accompanying patients and
providing them with meals free of charge;
(g) to provide financial aid in the case of poor and
helpless patients who cannot afford the medicine
prescribed to them; and
(h) to act in cooperation with local and foreign people
and organizations who are willing to work for
helpless patients.
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out without any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried
out in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or any Provincial Council.
5. (1) Subjects to the provisions of this Act the body
corporate shall be carried out by a Board of Management
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.
(2) (a) The Board of Management of the foundation that
holds office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of
the body corporate until the first Board is appointed or
elected in the manner provided for by rules made under
section 7.
(b)The first Board of the body corporate shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3) ( a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.
body
corporate to
ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
of the Central
Government
or Province
Management
of the Affairs
of the body
corporate

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including
the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purpose of the Body corporate and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of the
body corporate;
(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind with or without security:
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations made to the body corporate;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close accounts in any banks;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the body corporate in such manner as the
Board may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administer
any lawful trust or any real or personal property with
a view to promoting the objects of the body
corporate;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporate and
5
10
15
20
25
30
Powers of the
body
Corporate

<!-- page 6 -->

5Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate;
(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the body corporate.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from
time to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not
less than two thirds of the members present and voting, to
make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law, for all or any of the following matters:–
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the body corporate;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, or any
subcommittee thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualification and disqualification to be a
member of the Board and the body corporate;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and
5
10
15
20
25
Rules of the
body
Corporate
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
(g) the management of the affairs of the body corporate
and the accomplishment of its’ objects and
dissolution of the body corporate.
(2) The rules made by the body corporate may be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the body corporate shall at all time
be subject to rules of the body corporate.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government  Gazette.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which name, address and other essential details of the
members be inscribed.
9. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for an account of
the body corporate shall be deposited in one or more Banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its power, duties and functions under the Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the body corporate.
(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
by a qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms
of Article 154 of the Constitution.
Accounts and
Auditing
5
10
15
20
25
30
Funds of the
body
corporate
Register of
members

<!-- page 8 -->

7Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
(4) For the purpose of this section “qualified auditor”
means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the body corporate for each financial year and submit
such report togother with the audited statement of accounts
to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary
Social Services Organizations appointed under the
Voluntary Social Services Organization (Registration and
Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of
six months of the year succeeding the year to which such
report relates.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and local
moneys received by the body corporate during the financial
year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted, and
all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the body
corporate for the purpose of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Annual
Report
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
35

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
Application
of money
and property
5
10
15
20
25
13. Subject to the provision of this Act, the body
corporate shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold
any property movable or immovable which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the body corporate for the purposes of this Act, and subject
to the rules of the body corporate  made under section 7,
with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.
14. The moneys and property of the body corporate
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects of the body corporate and no
portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members
of the body corporate.
15. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence
of two members of the Board who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the body corporate,
but shall be given or transferred to any other institution
having objects similar to those of the body corporate, and
which is  by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its  members.
(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
Seal of the
body
corporate
Body
corporate
may hold
property
movable and
immovable
Property
remaining on
dissolution
30
35

<!-- page 10 -->

9Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING