

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'04
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 04.02.2025
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2422$16 – 2025 fmnrjdß ui 04 jeks wÕyrejdod – 2025'02'04
No. 2422/16 – TUESDAY, FEBRUARY  04, 2025
ANIMAL  DISEASES  ACT,  N o.  59  OF  1992
ORDER  OF  UNDER  SECTION   5  AND CONSEQUENTIAL  ARRANGEMENTS
The Gazette Extraordinary published No. 2409/02 of 4th November, 2024, made to the order of under Section 5 and consequential 
arrangements of title regulations, are further hereby amended as follows:
WHEREAS, African Swine Fever (AFS) and Porcine Reproductive and  Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS) are Speciﬁ ed
Diseases within the meaning of the Animal Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1992, 1st Schedule of the Act and the Order made 
thereunder and published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1867/8 dated 17.06.2014 has been reported to have occurred 
and susceptible to be occurred in every Divisional Secretary’s Division of the Island, I, Kasthuri Arachchige Chandrika 
Hemali Abeyrathna Kothalawala, the Director General of Animal Production and Health, do by virtue and in the exercise 
of powers vested in me under that Act hereby declare by this Order that –
 Every Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Sri Lanka to be an i nfected area or susceptible area for AFS & PRRS for the 
purposes and within the meaning of that Act.
 (1) “Pig” ( sus scrofa) is the susceptible species of animal to this Disease; and
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G043660 – 07 (02/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'04
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 04.02.2025
 2A
  (2) This Order shall come into force on the date on which it is published in the Gazette and shall unless earlier revoked 
or further extended in accordance with the Section 5(3) of that Act, cease to have eﬀ ect at the expiration of a period 
of three months from the date on which it is published in the Gazette.
 02. So long as this Order remains in force, I, the Director General of Animal Production and Health do -
 (1) Hereby prohibit the following activities within or in rela tion to the infected and susceptible area for the purpose of 
preventing the spread from and controlling and containing within, the infected area, of the said African Swine Fever 
(AFS) and Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS).
 I. Under Section 5 (4) of the Animal Diseases Act removal, tak ing or driving or transport pigs, pork, pork 
products or the risk material within, to or from the infected or susceptible area without a permit issued by the 
Authorized veterinary surgeon of respective division as per the format VII of the regulation published in the 
Gazette No.1108/23 dated December 03, 1999,
 II. the slaughter of infected species of Animal for meat purpo se, (The Disease free status should be conﬁ rmed by 
an authorized oﬃ  cer with a test)
 III. The health certiﬁ cate of the prospective animals for the slaughtering should be kept in the process establishments.
 IV . holding or conducting Live Animal Market using susceptible  species of Animals,
 V . Sale, exposure for sale, oﬀ  ering for sale, store, supply or distribution of pigs, pork, pork products and infected 
materials and processing and further processing of pork, without a permit issued by an Authorized oﬃ  cer who 
is being nominated in this order,
 VI. throwing or otherwise placing in any water body, any carcass or any part thereof of an animal that at the time 
of its death was suspected of being, aﬀ ected or contaminated with the African Swine Fever (AFS) and Porcine 
Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS) or any other risk material that is suspected or contaminated 
with the African Swine Fever (AFS); or Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS),
 VII. Placing any carcass or any part thereof, of an animal tha t at the time of its death was suspected of being, aﬀ ected 
or contaminated with the African Swine Fever (AFS), Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS), 
in such manner as to facilitate other animal to consume or taking away of those carcasses or any part thereof 
to other places.
 VIII. Slaughter of the pigs in slaughter houses which are not approved by an Authorized Oﬃ  cer who is being 
nominated in this order.     
 03. The animals in the non - infected farms could be slaughtered subjected to the following condition.
 I. The farm should be registered in the Animal Breeding divisi on in the Central Department of Animal Production 
and Health, Peradeniya
 II. The prospective animals for slaughtering, faeltering, bree ding should be conﬁ med negative for African Swine 
Fever (AFS) by the authorized oﬃ  cer in writing
 III. All animals issuing to the outside farms should be full ﬁ  lled the above II condition.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'02'04
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 04.02.2025
 3A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
 IV . For all new prospective commercial farms should be certiﬁ  ed by the authorized oﬃ  cer stating that the farms are 
following the prescribed bio security measures and free from any infected materials at the time of inspection.
 V . A copy of the health certiﬁ  cate and the test report of the transported animals should be kept in the commercial 
farm.  
04. By virtue, and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Provisions of the Animal Diseases Act, nominate –
 (1) The Following Oﬃ   cers to be Authorized Oﬃ  cers for the purposes of Section 3 (3) of the Act to take action to prevent 
the commission of the prohibited activities set out under Paragraph 02 (1) of this Order and to exercise the powers of 
an Authorized Oﬃ  cer under Sections 13 and 14 the Animal Diseases Act for that purpose.
 (i) Director-Animal Health, Department of Animal Production an d Health.
 (ii) Director-Wildlife Health, Department of Wildlife and Cons ervation.
 (iii) Chief   Municipal Veterinary Surgeon -Municipal Councils .
 (iv) Deputy Director - Animal Health, Department of Animal Pro duction and Health.
 (v) The Provincial Directors of Animal Production and Health o f each Province.
 (vi) Subject Matter Specialist of each Province.
 (vii) The Deputy Directors of Animal Production and Health in charge of each District and District Veterinary Surgeons.
 (viii) The Veterinary Investigation Oﬃ   cers of each District.
 (ix) The Government Veterinary Surgeons of every Divisions. 
 (x) All Municipal Veterinary Surgeons.
 (xi) All Wildlife Veterinary Surgeons in Department of Wildlif e Conservation.
 Kൺඌඍඁඎඋං Aඋൺർඁർඁං඀ൾ Cඁൺඇൽඋං඄ൺ Hൾආൺඅං
 Aൻൾඒඋൺඍඁඇൺ Kඈඍඁൺඅൺඐൺඅൺ,
 Director General,
 Department of Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
P.O. Box 13,
Gatambe,
Peradeniya.
4th February, 2025.
EOG 02 – 0029