

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'212
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 21.09.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2141$87 - 2019 iemaa;eïn¾ ui 21 jeks fikiqrdod - 2019'09'21
No. 2141/87 - SATURDAY,  SEPTEMBER  21, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG   4661— 757  (10/2019)
 MEDIA   GUIDELINES   UNDER   ARTICLE  104B (5)(A)  OF  THE  CONSTITUTION   OF   THE
DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA
THE Media Guidelines made by the Election Commission under Article 104B(5)(a), (b), (c) (i) of the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHINDA D ESHAPRIYA N. J. ABEYESEKERE S. RATNAJEEV AN H. H OOLE
Chairman Member Member
Election Commission Election Commission Election Commission
Colombo,
19th September, 2019.
01. Every media institution shall provide accurate, balanced and impartial information in broadcasting or televising
or publishing their news bulletins and any other programme relating to political matters. The neutrality and
impartiality of media shall be monitored regularly by the Standing Committee of Permanent Representatives on
Elections Complaints and the Standing Committee of Permanent Representatives on Media Guidelines.
02. Every telecasting, broadcasting and print media shall be neutral and impartial in their reporting of matters relating
to an election and shall not act in a manner which  discriminates against any contesting political party, independent
group or a candidate or confers a special benefit to any such party, group or candidate, in allocating airtime on
radio or television and allotting space in the newspapers for such political party, independent group or a candidate.
03. Editorials published in the newspapers shall not be commented on by electronic media as opinions in such
commentaries may be biased. Whenever an editorial opinion is broadcasted, televised or published, the affected
party shall be given an opportunity to broadcast, telecast or publish material to counter such opinion.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 21.09.2019
2A
04. Every presenter of programmes and announcer of television and radio channels shall refrain from expressing
personal views, on programme where  newspaper headlines and cartoons are presented, which may promote one
party while causing prejudice to another.
05. It shall be the responsibility of the news and current affairs divisions of all electronic and print media institutions
not to broadcast, televise or publish any programme or supplement during the period of election, if such
programme, supplement or news item is inconsistent with the election laws and media guidelines of the Election
Commission.
06. Where any material covering an incident or event is broadcasted, televised or published during the period of an
election with comments of one candidate, any other political party or independent group having an interest in
such event or likely to be affected by that incident or event should also be given an opportunity to express their
views on the same incident or event.
07. The names of the script writer, announcer and the editor of any documentary programme or any other special
programme broadcasted or televised during the period of an election which is directly connected with such
election shall be disclosed when such programme is boradcasted or telecasted. In the event of any such media
institution retaining the right  not to disclose such particulars, the person in charge of such programme shall be
held responsible for the contents thereof.
08. Any media institution shall not utilize air time during any programme or news bulletin to make allegations against
any candidate contesting at an election if the allegations cannot be substantiated. If any political party, independent
group or a candidate claims that another political party, independent group or a candidate or a supporter thereof
has made any false and prejudicial statement against such political party, independent group or candidate that
party, group or candidate shall be given an opportunity to counter the same.
09. Where any news or programme covering any official function or event related to any crime which is likely to
promote or demote any political party, independent group or a candidate is published, even if such news or
programme is not related to any election, every media institution if publishing such news or programme shall
consult the parties involved therein for clarity.
10. Where during the period of an election coverage is given by radio or television to opinions or views expressed by
the President or the Prime Minister or any Minister, it shall be treated as coverage given to the political party to
which such person belongs. Therefore, any leader of a rival political party contesting such election shall also be
given equal coverage is similar programmes. The print media shall similarly provide equal space and prominence
to all political parties, independent groups and candidates in publishing special discussions and reporting campaign
meetings.
11. No candidate shall be specially and favourably treated in allocation of airtime on radio or television or space in
the print media, to promote the election of such candidate or to cause disadvantage to another candidate.
12. No lecture, interview, or such other programme with public officers shall be published or broadcasted or telecasted,
during the period of an election, promoting any contesting candidate or causing disadvantage to another candidate.
13. Every electronic media institution shall act in a reasonable manner in selecting participants for panel discussions
so that the composition of the panel is balanced. Every media institution shall refrain from conducting programmes
which cause disadvantage to any participant by conducting the programme in a  language which such participant is
not proficient. Interviews with participants shall be conducted in a language that the participant is proficient in.
Information obtained through vague and incoherent questions should not be published, or such questions should
not be asked. At the outset, a participant in the programme should be warned not to make statements which are
unethical or harmful to communal harmony, and if such statements are made while the discussion is in progress,
the programme should be discontinued then forthwith.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'212
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 21.09.2019
3A
14. In any phone-in programme, every caller shall be given fair opportunity to pose questions which are not unethical,
not harmful to the religious or communal harmony and are consistent with the laws relating to elections. Every
person conducting such phone-in programmes shall be answerable for any biased phone-in programme.
15. If the chairperson, member of the board of management, director or any journalist of any electronic or print
media institution is actively involved in poiltical activities and where any such involvement may result in a conflict
of interest in providing balanced broadcasting, telecasting or publishing, such perosn shall inform in writing to
the management of the institution, the following :-
(a) the involvement of such person in political activity ;
(b) the position held by such person in the institution ; and
(c) the extent of involvement of such person in arranging and conducting programmes.
16. Where any person holding any  position in any recognized political party and also holding a dominant office such
as the chairman, member of the board of directors, chief executive or chief editor of any media institution and,
where such person is also a candidate at an election or the party to which such person belongs is directly or under
a recognized alliance contesting at such election, he shall cease to engage in the duties assigned to him in such
media institution. Further, if such person is contesting as a  candidate or holding office in a contesting party at an
election, he shall not be involved in moderating any programme in any television or broadcasting institution
which is of political in nature and, in the case of print media such person shall not publish articles on political
matters through that media institution.
17. Where any participant of a political party refuses to participate in a discussion or an interview in any media
institution without assigning any reason for such non-participation, such media institution shall not display an
empty chair or use similar means to emphasize  such non-participation. It is recommended that a simple and
direct announcement be made about the absence of the participant.
18. Any electronic media which broadcasts or print media that publishes the result of an opinion poll shall broadcast
or publish the name of the organization which conducted such poll, the organization or the person which
commissioned and funded such poll, the methodology employed, the size of the sample, margin of error and the
period of fieldwork. Further, the broadcaster or publisher shall state that such poll reflects the public opinion
only at the time of such opinion poll.
19. Where any candidate makes any statement to promote the candidature of another candidate of a party or group, to
which such candidate does not belong, no publicity shall be given to such statement by way of broadcasting or
telecasting such statement.
20. Every media personnel shall refrain from taking photographs or videoing of the inside of any polling station or
postal voting center, without the written consent of the Election Commission. Any photograph or video visual
obtained without such permission shall not be published in newspapers, televised or broadcasted through any
media. Even the photographs and visuals obtained with the approval of the Election Commission may be published
or televised only after the poll.
21. Any advertisement, quiz programme, entertainment programme, any programme relating to development activities
or any such activities, film, teledrama, musical show or any other programme of such nature televised, broadcasted
or published prior to the date of election, conducted by or featuring any candidate or promoting or demoting any
candidate or party or an independent group shall not be telecasted, broadcasted or published during the period of
silence which operate just before the date of poll. It is considered vital that a period of silence prevails just
before the date of poll to enable the voter to contemplate and, consider the pros and cons of various policies
announced and promises made by political parties and candidates during the election campaign.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 21.09.2019
4A
22. Every media institution shall refrain from broadcasting, telecasting or publishing material that may promote or
induce hatred and intolerance among Sri Lankan people on various grounds including the religious beliefs, faith,
language, ethnicity, customs and castes.
23. Every media institution shall avoid broadcasting, telecasting or publishing propaganda activities that promote
hateful politics among political activists and within society.
24. Every media institution shall refrain from republishing or repeat telecasting of any statement made previously by
any candidate or a supporter about another candidate of another political party, without the consent of the declarant
and shall honour a request made by a declarant not to repeat such statement made by  him previously.
25. A media institution shall not give coverage to anonymous notices or material and to  notices or material under the
names of fake organizations or persons. The responsibility in this regard shall lie with the respective media
institution.
26. A media institution and the person making any statement or reading the news, as the case may be, shall be equally
accountable with regard to the publishing, broadcasting or telecasting of incorrect statements or news and shall
be subject to legal proceedings that  may arise in this regard.
27. It shall be the responsibility of every electronic and print media institution to adhere to and abide by the moral
ethics of media.
28. All government and semi government media institutions shall refrain from the use of state property and funds to
promote any political party, group or candidate and to cause loss to government revenue and act so as to cause
damage to any institution. In the event of the breach of this guideline, in addition to the penalties specified in the
Constitution, disciplinary action may be instituted against those responsible.
29. The proprietors of all electronic and print media shall adhere to these guidelines and ensure that the respective
institutions owned by them observe such guidelines.
30. It shall also be the responsibility of the administrators of social media sites and owners of Cable Television
channels to follow these guidelines as applicable to them, during the period of an election.
31. It is not only the duty, but also the responsibility of the proprietors of media institutions and administrators and
users of social media to adhere to these guidelines, as observance of these guidelines is essential to ensure a free
and fair election.
32.  In  these guidelines “period of an election” means the period commencing on the making of a Proclamation or
Order for the conduct of  Referendum or for the holding of an election, as the case may be, and ending on the date
on which the result of poll taken at such Referendum or election, as the case may be, is declared.
33. Failure to comply with these guidelines is a punishable offence under the Constitution.
34. The Gazette Extraordinary  No. 2008/28 dated 03.03.2017 and Gazette Extraordinary  No. 2048/1 dated
04.12.2017 is hereby rescinded.
10 - 529
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.