

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2293$62 - 2022 wf.daia;= ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'08'19
No. 2293/62  -  FRIDAY,  AUGUST   19,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
*RYHUQPHQW1RWL¿FDWLRQV
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No.  15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), 
the Institute has adopted Sri Lanka Accounting Standard SLSRS 4 400 (Revised) Agreed - Upon Procedures, published 
herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Standard shall be 
H൵HFWLYHIRUDJUHHGXSRQSURFHGXUHVHQJDJHPHQWVIRUZKLFKWKHWHUPVRIHQJDJHPHQWDUHDJUHHGRQRUDIWHU-DQXDU\
%\2UGHURIWKH&RXQFLO
 R. S. $ඇඈආൺ3උංඒൺൽൺඋඌඁൺඇං
 6HFUHWDU\
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A, 
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
19th August, 2022.
1A - PG 5963 - 00 (09/2022)


<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
SRI LANKA STANDARD ON 
RELATED SERVICES 4400 (REVISED) 
AGREED-UPON PROCEDURES ENGAGEMENTS 
(Effective for agreed-upon procedures engagements 
for which the terms of engagement are agreed on or after January 1, 2022) 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Paragraph 
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLSRS  1 –3 
The Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagement  4 –6 
Authority of this SLSRS  
 7–10 
Effective Date  11 
Objectives  1 2  
Definitions  13 
Requirements 
Conduct of an Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagement in Accordance with this SLSRS 1 4 –16 
Relevant Ethical Requirements  17 
Professional Judgment  18 
Engagement Level Quality Control  19 –20 
Engagement Acceptance and Continuance  21 –23 
Agreeing the Terms of the Engagement  24 –26 
Performing the Agreed-Upon Procedures  27 –28 
Using the Work of a Practitioner’s Expert  29 
The Agreed-Upon Procedures Report  30 –33 
Undertaking an Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagement Together with Another Engagement 34 
Documentation  35 
 
 
  

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    3A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Scope of this SLSRS  A1 –A8 
Effective Date  A9 
Definitions           A10 –A13 
Relevant Ethical Requirements  A14 –A20 
Professional Judgment A21-A23 
Engagement Level Quality Control A24-A27 
Engagement Acceptance and Continuance A28-A38 
Agreeing the Terms of the Engagement A39-A44 
Performing the Agreed-Upon Procedures A45 
Using the Work of a Practitioner’s Expert A46-A50 
The Agreed-Upon Procedures Report A51-A58 
Undertaking an Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagement Together with Another Engagement A59 
Documentation A60 
Appendix 1: lllustrative Engagement Letter for an Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagement 
Appendix 2: lllustrations of Agreed-Upon Procedures Reports 
 
 
Sri Lanka Standard on Related Services (SLSRS) 4400 (Revised), Agreed-Upon Procedures 
Engagements, should be read in the context of the Preface to the Sri Lanka Quality Control, Auditing, 
Review, Other Assurance, and Related Services Pronouncements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLSRS 
1. This Sri Lanka Standard on Related Services (SLSRS) deals with:  
(a) The practitioner’s responsibilities when engaged to perform an agreed-upon procedures engagement; 
and 
(b) The form and content of the agreed-upon procedures report. 
2. This SLSRS applies to the performance of agreed-upon procedures  engagements on financial or non-
financial subject matters. (Ref: Para. A1–A2) 
 
Relationship with SLSQC 11 
3. Quality control systems, policies  and procedures are the respon sibility of the firm. SLSQC 1 applies to 
firms of professional accountants in respect of a firm’s agreed -upon procedures engagements. The 
provisions of this SLSRS regarding quality control at the level  of individual agreed-upon procedures 
engagements are premised on the basis that the firm is subject to SLSQC 1 or requirements that are at 
least as demanding. (Ref: Para. A3–A8) 
The Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagement 
4. In an agreed-upon procedures engagement, the practitioner performs the procedures that have been agreed 
upon by the practitioner and the engaging party,  w h e re the engaging party has acknowledged that the 
procedures performed are appropriate for the purpose of the engagement. The practitioner communicates 
the agreed-upon procedures performed and the related findings in the agreed-upon procedures report. The 
engaging party and other intended users consider for themselves the agreed-upon procedures and findings 
reported by the practitioner and draw their own conclusions from the work performed by the practitioner. 
 
5. The value of an agreed-upon procedures engagement performed in accordance with this SLSRS results 
from: 
(a) The practitioner’s compliance with professional standards, incl uding relevant ethical requirements; 
and  
(b) Clear communication of the procedures performed and the related findings. 
6. An agreed-upon procedures enga gement is not an audit, review  or other assurance engagement. An 
agreed-upon procedures engagement does not involve obtaining ev idence for the purpose of the 
practitioner expressing an opinion or an assurance conclusion in any form. 
Authority of this SLSRS 
7. This SLSRS contains the objectives of the practitioner in following the SLSRS, which provide the context 
in which the requirements of this SLSRS are set. The objectives  are intended to assist the practitioner in 
understanding what needs to be accomplished in an agreed-upon procedures engagement. 
8. This SLSRS contains requirements, expressed using “shall,” that  are designed to enable the practitioner 
to meet the stated objectives. 
9. In addition, this SLSRS contains introductory material, definitions, and application and other explanatory 
material, that provide context relevant to a proper understanding of this SLSRS. 
                                                           
1 Sri Lanka Standard on Quality Control (SLSQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of 
Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
10. The application and other explanatory material provides further  explanation of the requirements and 
guidance for carrying them out. While such guidance does not in itself impose a requirement, it is relevant 
to the proper application of the requirements. The application and other explanatory material may also 
provide background information on matters addressed in this SLS RS that assists in the application of the 
requirements. 
Effective Date 
11. This SLSRS is effective for agreed-upon procedures engagements for which the terms of engagement are 
agreed on or after January 1, 2022. (Ref: Para. A9) 
Objectives 
12. The practitioner’s objectives in an agreed-upon procedures engagement under this SLSRS are to: 
(a) Agree with the engaging party the procedures to be performed; 
(b) Perform the agreed-upon procedures; and 
(c) Communicate the procedures performed and the related findin gs in accordance with the 
requirements of this SLSRS. 
Definitions 
13. For purposes of this SLSRS, the following terms have the meanings attributed below: 
(a) Agreed-upon procedures – Procedures that have been agreed to by the practitioner and th e engaging 
party (and if relevant, other parties). (Ref: Para. A10) 
(b) Agreed-upon procedures engagement – An engagement in which a practitioner is engaged to carry 
out procedures to which the practitioner and the engaging party  (and if relevant, other parties) have 
agreed and to communicate the procedures performed and the rela ted findings in an agreed-upon 
procedures report. (Ref: Para. A10) 
(c) Engagement partner – The partner or other person in the firm who is responsible for the engagement 
and its performance, and for th e agreed-upon procedures report that is issued on behalf of the firm, 
and who, where required, has the appropriate authority from a professional, legal or regulatory body.  
(d) Engaging party – The party(ies) that engage(s) the practitioner to perform the agreed-upon procedures 
engagement. (Ref: Para. A11) 
(e) Engagement team – All partners and staff performing the agreed-upon procedures e ngagement, and 
any individuals engaged by the firm or a network firm who perfo rm procedures on the engagement. 
This excludes a practitioner's external expert engaged by the firm or a network firm. 
(f) Findings – Findings are the factual results of agreed-upon procedures per formed. Findings are 
capable of being objectively verified. References to findings i n this SLSRS exclude opinions or 
conclusions in any form as well as any recommendations that the practitioner may make. (Ref: Para. 
A12–A13)  
(g) Intended users – The individual(s) or organization(s), or group(s) that the pra ctitioner expects will 
use the agreed-upon procedures report. In some cases, there may  be intended users other than those 
to whom the agreed-upon procedures report is addressed. (Ref: Para. A10)  

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
K Practitioner – The individual(s) conducting the engagement (usually the engagement partner or other
members of the engagement team, or, as applicable, the firm). Where this SLSRS expressly intends
that a requirement or responsibility be fulfilled by the engagement partner, the term "engagement 
partner" rather than "practitioner" is used.
L Practitioner’s expert – An individual or organization possessing expertise in a field ot her than 
assurance and related services, whose work in that field is use d to assist the practitioner in fulfilling
the practitioner’s responsibilities for the agreed-upon procedures engagement. A practitioner’s expert
may be either a practitioner’s internal expert (who is a partne r or staff, including temporary staff, of
the practitioner’s firm or a network firm) or a practitioner’s external expert.
M Professional judgment - The application of relevant training, k nowledge and experience, within the 
context provided by this SLSRS and relevant ethical requirement s, in making informed decisions 
about the courses of action that are appropriate in the circums tances of the agreed-upon procedures 
engagement.
N Relevant ethical requirements – Ethical requirements the engagement team is subject to when 
undertaking agreed-upon procedures engagements. These requirements ordinarily comprise the Code
of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
(CA Sri Lanka Code) together with national requirements that are more restrictive.
O Responsible party - The party(ies) responsible for the subject matter on which the agreed-upon
procedures are performed. 
Requirements
Conduct of an Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagement in Accordance with this SLSRS
14. The practitioner shall have an understanding of the entire text of this SLSRS, including its application and
other explanatory material, to understand its objectives and to apply its requirements properly.
Complying with Relevant Requirements
 The practitioner shall comply with each requirement of this SLSRS unless a particular requirement is not
relevant to the agreed-upon procedures engagement, for example,  if the circumstances addressed by the 
requirement do not exist in the engagement.
 The practitioner shall not represent compliance with this SLSRS unlessthe practitioner has complied
with all requirements of this SLSRS relevant to the agreed-upon procedures engagement. 
Relevant Ethical Requirements
17. The practitioner shall comply with relevant ethical requirements. (Ref: Para. A14–A20)
Professional Judgment
18. The practitioner shall exercise professional judgment in accepting, conducting and reporting on an agreed-
upon procedures engagement, taking into account the circumstances of the engagement. (Ref: Para. A21–
A23)
Engagement Level Quality Control
19. The engagement partner shall take responsibility for:
(a) The overall quality of the agreed-upon procedures engagement in cluding, if applicable, work
performed by a practitioner’s expert; and (Ref: Para. A24)

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    7A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
(b) The engagement being performed in accordance with the firm’s qu ality control policies and 
procedures by: 
(i) Following appropriate procedures regarding the acceptance and c ontinuance of client 
relationships and engagements; (Ref: Para. A25)  
(ii) Being satisfied that the engagement team, and any practitioner' s experts who are not part of 
the engagement team, collectively have the appropriate competen ce and capabilities to 
perform the agreed-upon procedures engagement;  
(iii) Being alert for indications of non-compliance by members of the  engagement team with 
relevant ethical requirements, and determining the appropriate actions if matters come to the 
engagement partner’s attention indicating that members of the e ngagement team have not 
complied with relevant ethical requirements; (Ref: Para. A26) 
(iv) Directing, supervising and performing the engagement in complia nce with professional 
standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements; and 
(v) Taking responsibility for appropriate engagement documentation being maintained.  
 
20. If the work of a practitioner’s  expert is to be used, the engagement partner shall be satisfie d that the 
practitioner will be able to be involved in the work of a practitioner’s expert to an extent that is sufficient 
to take responsibility for the findings included in the agreed-upon procedures report. (Ref: Para. A27) 
 
Engagement Acceptance and Continuance 
21. Before accepting or continuing an agreed-upon procedures engage ment, the practitioner shall obtain an 
understanding of the purpose of the engagement. The practitione r shall not accept or continue the 
engagement if the practitioner is aware of any facts or circums tances indicating that the procedures the 
practitioner is being asked to perform are inappropriate for th e purpose of the agreed-upon procedures 
engagement. (Ref: Para. A28–A31) 
22. The practitioner shall accept or continue the agreed-upon proce dures engagement only when: (Ref: Para. 
A28–A31)  
(a) The engaging party acknowledges that the expected procedures to  be performed by the practitioner 
are appropriate for the purpose of the engagement;  
(b) The practitioner expects to be able to obtain the information n ecessary to perform the agreed-upon 
procedures;  
(c) The agreed-upon procedures and related findings can be described objectively, in terms that are clear, 
not misleading, and not subject to varying interpretations; (Ref: Para. A32–A36)  
(d) The practitioner has no reason to believe that relevant ethical requirements will not be complied with; 
and  
(e) If the practitioner is required to comply with independence req uirements, the practitioner has no 
reason to believe that the independence requirements will not b e complied with. (Ref: Para. A37–
A38) 
 

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
23. If the engagement partner obtains information that would ha ve caused the firm to decline the engagement 
had that information been available earlier, the engagement par tner shall communicate that information 
promptly to the firm, so that the firm and the engagement partner can take necessary action. 
 
Agreeing the Terms of the Engagement 
24. The practitioner shall agree the terms of the agreed-upon procedures engagement with the engaging party 
and record the agreed terms of engagement in an engagement lett er or other suitable form of written 
agreement. These terms shall include the following: (Ref: Para. A39–A40)  
(a) Identification of the subject matter(s) on which the agreed-upon procedures will be performed; 
(b) The purpose of the engagement an d the intended users of the agr eed-upon procedures report as 
identified by the engaging party; 
(c) If applicable, the responsible party as identified by the engaging party, and a statement that the agreed-
upon procedures engagement is performed on the basis that the r esponsible party is responsible for 
the subject matter on which the agreed-upon procedures are performed; 
(d) Acknowledgement of the relevant ethical requirements with which  the practitioner will comply in 
conducting the agreed-upon procedures engagement; 
(e) A statement as to whether the practitioner is required to comply with independence requirements and, 
if so, the relevant independence requirements; (Ref: Para. A37–A38) 
(f) The nature of the agreed-upon procedures engagement, including statements that: 
(i) An agreed-upon procedures engagement involves the practitioner performing the procedures 
agreed with the engaging party (and if relevant, other parties), and reporting the findings; (Ref: 
Para. A10) 
(ii) Findings are the factual results of the agreed-upon procedures performed; and  
(iii) An agreed-upon procedures engagement is not an assurance engagement and accordingly, the 
practitioner does not express an opinion or an assurance conclusion;  
(g) Acknowledgement by the engaging party (and if relevant, other p arties) that the agreed-upon 
procedures are appropriate for the purpose of the engagement; (Ref: Para. A10) 
(h) Identification of the addressee of the agreed-upon procedures report;  
(i) The nature, timing and extent of the procedures to be performed, described in terms that are clear, not 
misleading and not subject to varying interpretations; and (Ref: Para. A41–A42) 
(j) Reference to the expected form and content of the agreed-upon procedures report.  
25. If the agreed-upon procedures are modified during the course of  the engagement, the practitioner shall 
agree amended terms of engagement with the engaging party that reflect the modified procedures. (Ref: 
Para. A43) 
 
 Recurring Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagements 
26. On recurring agreed-upon procedures engagements, the practitioner shall evaluate whether circumstances, 
including changes in the engagement acceptance considerations, require the terms of the engagement to 
be revised and whether there is a need to remind the engaging party of the existing terms of engagement. 
(Ref: Para. A44) 
 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    9A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Performing the Agreed-Upon Procedures 
27. The practitioner shall perform the procedures as agreed upon in the terms of the engagement.  
28. The practitioner shall consider whether to request written representations. (Ref: Para. A45)  
Using the Work of a Practitioner’s Expert 
29. If the practitioner uses the work of a practitioner’s expert, t he practitioner shall: (Ref: Para. A46–A47, 
  A50) 
(a) Evaluate the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the practitioner’s expert; 
(b) Agree with the practitioner’s expert on the nature, scope and o bjectives of that expert’s work; (Ref: 
Para. A48–A49)  
(c) Determine whether the nature, timing and extent of the work per formed by the practitioner’s expert 
is consistent with the work agreed with the expert; and 
(d) Determine whether the findings adequately describe the results of the work performed, taking into 
account the work performed by the practitioner’s expert. 
The Agreed-Upon Procedures Report 
30. The agreed-upon procedures report shall be in writing and shall include: (Ref: Para. A51) 
(a) A title that clearly indicates that the report is an agreed-upon procedures report; 
(b) An addressee as set forth in the terms of the engagement; 
(c) Identification of the subject matter on which the agreed-upon p rocedures are performed; (Ref: Para. 
A52) 
(d) Identification of the purpose of the agreed-upon procedures rep ort and a statement that the agreed-
upon procedures report may not be suitable for another purpose; (Ref: Para. A53–A54) 
(e) A description of an agreed-upon procedures engagement stating that: 
(i) An agreed-upon procedures engagement involves the practitioner performing the procedures 
that have been agreed with the engaging party (and if relevant, other parties), and reporting the 
findings; (Ref: Para. A10) 
(ii) Findings are the factual results of the agreed-upon procedures performed; and 
(iii) The engaging party (and if relevant, other parties) has acknowl edged that the agreed-upon 
procedures are appropriate for the purpose of the engagement; (Ref: Para. A10) 
(f) If applicable, the responsible party as identified by the engag ing party, and a statement that the 
responsible party is responsible for the subject matter on whic h the agreed-upon procedures are 
performed;  
(g) A statement that the engagement was performed in accordance with SLSRS 4400 (Revised);  
(h) A statement that the practitioner makes no representation regarding the appropriateness of the agreed-
upon procedures; 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(i) A statement that the agreed-upon procedures engagement is not a n assurance engagement and 
accordingly, the practitioner does not express an opinion or an assurance conclusion;  
(j) A statement that, had the practitioner performed additional pro cedures, other matters might have 
come to the practitioner’s attention that would have been reported; 
(k) A statement that the practitioner complies with the ethical  requirements of the CA Sri Lanka Code, 
or other professional requirements, or requirements imposed by law or regulation, that are at least 
as demanding; 
(l) With respect to independence: 
(i) If the practitioner is not required to be independent and h as not otherwise agreed in the terms 
of engagement to comply with independence requirements, a state ment that, for the purpose 
of the engagement, there are no independence requirements with which the practitioner is 
required to comply; or  
(ii) If the practitioner is required to be independent or has a greed in the terms of engagement to 
comply with independence requirements, a statement that the pra ctitioner has complied with 
the relevant independence requirements. The statement shall ide ntify the relevant 
independence requirements;  
(m) A statement that the firm of which the practitioner is a member applies SLSQC 1, or other professional 
requirements, or requirements in law or regulation, that are at least as demanding as SLSQC 1. If the 
practitioner is not a professional accountant, the statement sh all identify the professional 
requirements, or requirements in law or regulation, applied that are at least as demanding as SLSQC 
1; 
(n) A description of the procedures performed detailing the nature and extent, and if applicable, the 
timing, of each procedure as agreed in the terms of the engagement; (Ref: Para. A55–A57) 
(o) The findings from each procedure performed, including details on exceptions found; (Ref: Para. A55–
A56) 
(p) The practitioner’s signature; 
(q) The date of the agreed-upon procedures report; and 
(r) The location in the jurisdiction where the practitioner practices.  
31. If the practitioner refers to the work performed by a practitio ner’s expert in the agreed-upon procedures 
report, the wording of the report shall not imply that the prac titioner’s responsibility for performing the 
procedures and reporting the findings is reduced because of the involvement of an expert. (Ref: Para. A58) 
32. If the practitioner provides a summary of findings in the agreed-upon procedures report in addition to the 
description of findings as required by paragraph 30(o):  
(a) The summary of findings shall be described in a manner that is objective, in terms that are clear, not 
misleading, and not subject to varying interpretations; and  
(b) The agreed-upon procedures report shall include a statement ind icating that reading the summary is 
not a substitute for reading the complete report.  
33. The practitioner shall date the agreed-upon procedures report n o earlier than the date on which the 
practitioner completed the agreed-upon procedures and determine d the findings in accordance with this 
SLSRS. 
 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    11A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Undertaking an Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagement Together with another Engagement 
34. The agreed-upon procedures report shall be clearly distinguished from reports on other engagements. (Ref: 
Para. A59) 
Documentation 
35. The practitioner shall include in the engagement documentation: (Ref: Para. A60) 
(a) The written terms of engagement and, if applicable, the agreeme nt of the engaging party as to 
modifications to the procedures;  
(b) The nature, timing and extent of the agreed-upon procedures performed; and  
(c) The findings resulting from the agreed-upon procedures performed. 
 
*** 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Scope of this SLSRS (Ref: Para. 2) 
A1. Reference to “subject matters” in this SLSRS encompasses anythi ng on which agreed-upon procedures 
are performed, including information, documents, measurements or compliance with laws and regulations, 
as relevant.  
A2. Examples of financial and non-financial subject matters on which an agreed-upon procedures engagement 
may be performed include: 
x Financial subject matters relating to: 
o The entity’s financial statements or specific classes of transa ctions, account balances  o r  
disclosures within the financial statements. 
o Eligibility of expenditures claimed from a funding program. 
o Revenues for determining royalties, rent or franchise fees based on a percentage of revenues. 
o Capital adequacy ratios for regulatory authorities. 
x Non-financial subject matters relating to: 
o Numbers of passengers reported to a civil aviation authority. 
o Observation of destruction of fake or defective goods reported to a regulatory authority. 
o Data generating processes for lottery draws reported to a regulatory authority. 
o Volume of greenhouse gas emissions reported to a regulatory authority. 
The above list is not exhaustive. Additional types of subject matters may arise as external reporting 
demands evolve.  
 
 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
Relationship with SLSQC 1 (Ref: Para. 3) 
A3. SLSQC 1 deals with the firm’s responsibilities to establish and  maintain its system of quality control for 
related services engagements, including agreed-upon procedures engagements. Those responsibilities are 
directed at establishing:  
x The firm’s quality control system; and 
x The firm’s related policies designed to achieve the objective o f the quality control system and its 
procedures to implement and monitor compliance with those policies. 
A4. Under SLSQC 1, the firm has an obligation to establish and maintain a system of quality control to provide 
it with reasonable assurance that:  
(a) The firm and its personnel comply with professional standards a nd applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements; and 
(b) Reports issued by the firm or engagement partners are appropriate in the circumstances.2 
A5. A jurisdiction that has not adopted SLSQC 1 in relation to agreed-upon procedures engagements may set 
out requirements for quality control in firms performing such engagements. The provisions of this SLSRS 
regarding quality control at the engagement level are premised on the basis that quality control 
requirements adopted are at leas t as demanding as those of SLSQ C 1. This is achieved when those 
requirements impose obligations on the firm to achieve the aims  of the requirements of SLSQC 1, 
including an obligation to establish a system of quality contro l that includes policies and procedures that 
address each of the following elements:  
x Leadership responsibilities for quality within the firm; 
x Relevant ethical requirements; 
x Acceptance and continuance of client relationships and specific engagements; 
x Human resources; 
x Engagement performance; and 
x Monitoring. 
 
A6. Within the context of the firm’s system of quality control, eng agement teams have a responsibility to 
implement quality control procedures applicable to the engagement.  
 
A7. Unless information provided by the firm or other parties su ggests otherwise, the engagement team is 
entitled to rely on the firm’s system of quality control. For e xample, the engagement team may rely on 
the firm’s system of quality control in relation to: 
x Competence of personnel through their recruitment and formal training. 
x Maintenance of client relationships through acceptance and continuance systems. 
x Adherence to legal and regulatory requirements through the monitoring process. 
In considering deficiencies identified in the firm’s system of quality control that may affect the agreed -
upon procedures engagement, the engagement partner may consider measures taken by the firm to rectify 
the situation that the engagement partner considers are suffici ent in the context of that agreed-upon 
procedures engagement. 
 
                                                           
2 SLSQC 1, paragraph 11 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    13A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
A8. A deficiency in the firm’s system of quality control does not necessarily indicate that an agreed -upon 
procedures engagement was not performed in accordance with professional standards and applicable legal 
and regulatory requirements, or that the agreed-upon procedures report was not appropriate. 
 
Effective Date (Ref: Para. 11) 
A9. For terms of engagement coverin g multiple years, practitioners may wish to update the terms of 
engagement so that the agreed-upon procedures engagements will be conducted in accordance with this 
SLSRS on or after the effective date.  
Definitions 
Engaging Party and Other Intended Users (Ref: Para. 13(a), 13(b), 13(d), 13(g), 24(f)(i), 24(g), 30(e)(i), 
30(e)(iii)) 
A10. In some circumstances, the procedures may be agreed with intend ed users in addition to the engaging 
party. Intended users other than the engaging party may also ac knowledge the appropriateness of the 
procedures.  
A11. The engaging party may be, under different circumstances, the r esponsible party, a regulator or other 
intended user. References to the engaging party in this SLSRS i nclude multiple engaging parties when 
relevant.  
Findings (Ref: Para. 13(f)) 
A12. Findings are capable of being objectively verified, which means that different practitioners performing 
the same procedures are expected to arrive at equivalent result s. Findings exclude the expression of an 
opinion or a conclusion as well as any recommendations that the practitioner may make.  
A13. Practitioners may use the term “factual findings” in place of “findings”, for example, in cases when the 
practitioner is concerned that the term “findings” may be misun derstood. This may be the case in 
jurisdictions or languages where the term “findings” may be understood as including results that are not 
factual.  
Relevant Ethical Requirements (Ref: Para. 17) 
Objectivity and Independence  
A14. A practitioner performing an agreed-upon procedures engagement is required to comply with relevant 
ethical requirements. Relevant ethical requirements ordinarily comprise CA Sri Lanka Code, together 
with national requirements that are more restrictive. CA Sri Lanka Code requires practitioners to comply 
with fundamental principles including objectivity, which requires practitioners not to compromise their 
professional or business judgment because of bias, conflict of interest or the undue influence of others. 
Accordingly, relevant ethical requirements to which the practit ioner is subject would, at a minimum, 
require the practitioner to be objective when performing an agreed-upon procedures engagement.  
A15. CA Sri Lanka Code does not contain independence requirements fo r agreed-upon procedures 
engagements. However, national ethical codes, laws or regulations, other professional requirements, or 
conditions of a contract, program, or arrangement relating to t he subject matter for the agreed-upon 
procedures engagement may specify requirements pertaining to independence. 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations3 
A16. Law, regulation or relevant ethical requirements may:  
(a) Require the practitioner to report identified or suspected non-compliance with laws and 
regulations to an appropriate authority outside the entity.  
(b) Establish responsibilities und er which reporting to an appropriate authority outside the entity may 
be appropriate in the circumstances.4  
 
A17. Reporting identified or suspected non-compliance with laws  and regulations to an appropriate authority 
outside the entity may be required or appropriate in the circumstances because: 
(a) Law, regulation or relevant ethical requirements require th e practitioner to report; 
(b) The practitioner has determined reporting is an appropriate  action to respond to identified or 
suspected non-compliance in accordance with relevant ethical requirements; or 
(c) Law, regulation or relevant ethical requirements provide th e practitioner with the right to do so. 
 
A18. The practitioner is not expected to have a level of unders tanding of laws and regulations beyond that 
necessary to be able to perform the agreed-upon procedures enga gement. However, law, regulation or 
relevant ethical requirements may expect the practitioner to ap ply knowledge, professional judgment 
and expertise in responding to identified or suspected non-compliance. Whether an act constitutes actual 
non-compliance is ultimately a matter to be determined by a cou rt or other appropriate adjudicative 
body.  
A19. In some circumstances, the reporting of identified or susp ected non-compliance with laws and 
regulations to an appropriate authority outside the entity may be precluded by the practitioner’s duty of 
confidentiality under law, regulation or relevant ethical requirements. In other cases, reporting identified 
or suspected non-compliance to an appropriate authority outside  the entity would not be considered a 
breach of the duty of confidentiality under the relevant ethical requirements.5  
A20. The practitioner may consider consulting internally (e.g.,  within the firm or network firm), obtaining 
legal advice to understand the professional or legal implicatio ns of taking any particular course of 
action, or consulting on a confidential basis with a regulator or a professional body (unless doing so is 
prohibited by law or regulations or would breach the duty of confidentiality).6 
Professional Judgment (Ref: Para. 18) 
A21. Professional judgment is exercised in applying the requirements  of this SLSRS and relevant ethical 
requirements, and in making informed decisions about courses of  action throughout the agreed-upon 
procedures engagement, as appropriate. 
A22. In accepting, conducting and reporting on an agreed-upon proced ures engagement, professional 
judgment is exercised, for example, in:  
                                                           
3 Relevant ethical requirements may indicate that non-compliance with laws and regulations includes fraud.  
4  (Deleted). 
5  (Deleted) 
6  (Deleted). 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    15A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Accepting the engagement 
x Discussing and agreeing with the engaging party (and if relevan t, other parties) the nature, timing 
and extent of the procedures to be performed (taking into account the purpose of the engagement).  
x Determining whether engagement acceptance and continuance conditions have been met. 
x Determining the resources necessary to carry out the procedures  as agreed in the terms of the 
engagement, including the need to involve a practitioner’s expert.  
x Determining appropriate actions if the practitioner becomes awa re of facts or circumstances 
suggesting that the procedures to which the practitioner is bei ng asked to agree are inappropriate 
for the purpose of the agreed-upon procedures engagement. 
Conducting the engagement 
x Determining appropriate actions or responses if, when performing the agreed-upon procedures, the 
practitioner becomes aware of: 
o Matters that may indicate fraud or an instance of non-compliance or suspected non-compliance 
with laws or regulations. 
o Other matters that cast doubt on the integrity of the informati on relevant to the agreed-upon 
procedures engagement or that indicate that the information may be misleading. 
o Procedures that cannot be performed as agreed. 
Reporting on the engagement 
x Describing the findings in an objective manner and in sufficient detail, including when exceptions 
are found. 
A23. In conducting the agreed-upon procedures engagement, the need f or the practitioner to exercise 
professional judgment when performing the agreed-upon procedures is limited for reasons including:  
x An agreed-upon procedures engagement involves the performance o f procedures that have been 
agreed upon by the practitioner and the engaging party, where the engaging party has acknowledged 
that the procedures performed are appropriate for the purpose of the engagement. 
x The agreed-upon procedures and the findings that result from pe rforming those procedures are 
capable of being described objectively, in terms that are clear , not misleading, and not subject to 
varying interpretations.  
x The findings are capable of being objectively verified, which m eans that different practitioners 
performing the same procedures are expected to arrive at equivalent results. 
 
Engagement Level Quality Control (Ref: Para. 19–20) 
A24. The actions of the engagement partner and appropriate messages to the other members of the 
engagement team, in taking responsibility for the overall quali ty on each engagement, emphasize the 
importance to achieving the quality of the engagement of: 
(a) Performing work that complies with professional standards and regulatory and legal requirements; 
(b) Complying with the firm’s quality control policies and procedures as applicable; and 
(c) Issuing the practitioner’s report for the engagement in accordance with this SLSRS.  

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
A25. SLSQC 1 requires the firm to obtain such information as it cons iders necessary in the circumstances 
before accepting an engagement with a new client, when deciding  whether to continue an existing 
engagement, and when considering acceptance of a new engagement  with an existing client. 
Information that assists the engagement partner in determining whether acceptance or continuance of 
client relationships and agreed-upon procedures engagements is appropriate may include information 
concerning the integrity of the principal owners, key managemen t and those charged with governance. 
If the engagement partner has cause to doubt management’s integ rity to a degree that is likely to affect 
proper performance of the engagement, it may not be appropriate to accept the engagement. 
A26. SLSQC 1 sets out the responsibilities of the firm for establish ing policies and procedures designed to 
provide it with reasonable assurance that the firm and its pers onnel comply with relevant ethical 
requirements. This SLSRS sets out the engagement partner’s resp onsibilities with respect to the 
engagement team’s compliance with relevant ethical requirements. 
A27. If the practitioner is unable to meet the requirement in p aragraph 20, it may be appropriate for the 
practitioner to agree with the engaging party to limit the scope of the agreed-upon procedures 
engagement to procedures for which the practitioner can appropriately take responsibility. The 
engaging party may separately engage an expert to perform the other procedures. 
 
Engagement Acceptance and Continuance (Ref: Para. 21–23) 
A28. In obtaining an understanding of the purpose of the agreed-upon  procedures engagement, the 
practitioner may become aware of indications that the procedure s the practitioner is asked to perform 
are inappropriate for the purpose of the agreed-upon procedures  engagement. For example, the 
practitioner may be aware of facts or circumstances that indicate: 
x The procedures are selected in a manner intended to bias the intended users’ decision-making. 
x The subject matter on which the agreed-upon procedures are performed is unreliable. 
x An assurance engagement or advisory service may better serve th e needs of the engaging party or 
other intended users.  
A29.  Other actions that may satisfy the practitioner that the condit ions in paragraphs 21 and 22 are met 
include:  
x Comparing the procedures to be performed with written requirements set out, for example, in law or 
regulation, or in a contractual agreement (sometimes referred to as the “Terms of Reference”), where 
appropriate. 
x Requesting the engaging party to: 
o Distribute a copy of the anticipated procedures and the form an d content of the agreed-upon 
procedures report as set out in the terms of engagement to the intended user(s). 
o Obtain acknowledgement from the intended user(s) of the procedures to be performed. 
o Discuss the procedures to be performed with appropriate representatives of the intended user(s). 
x Reading correspondence between the engaging party and other intended user(s) if the engaging party 
is not the only intended user.  
A30. If the conditions in paragraphs 21 and 22 are not met, it is un likely that an agreed-upon procedures 
engagement is able to meet the needs of the engaging party or o ther intended users. In such 
circumstances, the practitioner may suggest other services, such as an assurance engagement, that may 
be more appropriate.  
A31. All the conditions in paragraphs 21 and 22 also apply to proced ures that have been added or modified 
during the course of the engagement.  

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    17A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Descriptions of Agreed-Upon Procedures and Findings (Ref: Para. 22(c)) 
A32. The procedures to be performed during the agreed-upon procedure s engagement may be prescribed by 
law or regulation. In some circumstances, law or regulation may also prescribe the way the procedures 
or findings are to be described in the agreed-upon procedures r eport. As set out in paragraph 22(c), a 
condition of accepting an agreed-upon procedures engagement is that the practitioner has determined 
that the agreed-upon procedures an d findings can be described o bjectively, in terms that are clear, not 
misleading, and not subject to varying interpretations. 
A33. Agreed-upon procedures are described objectively, in terms that  are clear, not misleading, and not 
subject to varying interpretations. This means that they are de scribed at a level of specificity sufficient 
for an intended user to understand the nature and extent and if applicable, the timing, of the procedures 
performed. It is important to recognize that any term could pot entially be used in an unclear or 
misleading manner, depending on context or the absence thereof.  Assuming that the terms are 
appropriate in the context in which they are used, examples of descriptions of actions that may be 
acceptable include: 
x Confirm. 
x Compare. 
x Agree. 
x Trace. 
x Inspect. 
x Inquire. 
x Recalculate. 
x Observe. 
A34. Terms that may be unclear, misleading, or subject to varying in terpretations depending on the context 
in which they are used, may include, for example:  
x Terms that are associated with assurance under the Sri Lanka Auditing Standards such as “present 
fairly” or “true and fair,” “audit,” “review,” “assurance,” “opinion,” or “conclusion.” 
x Terms that imply expression of an assurance opinion or conclusi on such as “we certify,” “we 
verify,” “we have ascertained” or “we have ensured” with regard to the findings.  
x Unclear or vague phrases such as “we obtained all the explanations and performed such procedures 
as we considered necessary.” 
x Terms that are subject to varying interpretations such as “material” or “significant.” 
x Imprecise descriptions of procedures such as “discuss,” “evaluate,” “test,” “analyze” or “examine” 
without specifying the nature and extent, and if applicable, th e timing, of the procedures to be 
performed. For example, using the word “discuss” may be imprecise without specifying with whom 
the discussion is held or the specific questions asked. 
x Terms that suggest that the findings do not reflect factual res ults such as “in our view,” “from our 
perspective” or “we take the position that.”  
A35. For example, a procedure such as “review cost allocations to de termine if they are reasonable” is 
unlikely to meet the condition for terms to be clear, not misle ading, or not subject to varying 
interpretations because: 

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
x The term “review” may be misinterpreted by some users to mean t hat the cost allocation was the 
subject of a limited assurance engagement even though no such a ssurance is intended by the 
procedure.  
x The term “reasonable” is subject to varying interpretations as to what constitutes “reasonable.” 
A36. In circumstances when law or regulation specifies a procedure or describes a procedure using terms that 
are unclear, misleading, or subject to varying interpretations, the practitioner may satisfy the condition 
in paragraph 22(c) by, for example, requesting the engaging party to: 
x Modify the procedure or the description of the procedure so that it is no longer unclear, misleading, 
or subject to varying interpretations. 
x If a term that is unclear, misleading or subject to varying int erpretations cannot be amended, for 
example because of law or regulation, include a definition of t he term in the agreed-upon 
procedures report. 
Compliance with Independence Requirements (Ref: Para. 22(e), 24(e)) 
A37. Paragraph 22(e) applies whe n the practitioner is required to comply with independence requirements 
for reasons such as those set ou t in paragraph A15. Paragraph 2 2(e) also applies when the practitioner 
agrees with the engaging party, in the terms of engagement, to comply with independence requirements. 
For example, the practitioner may have initially determined tha t the practitioner is not required by 
relevant ethical requirements, law or regulation, or other reas ons to comply with independence 
requirements. However, when considering engagement acceptance a nd continuance or agreeing the 
terms of engagement, the practitioner’s knowledge of the follow ing matters may indicate that a 
discussion with the engaging party as to whether compliance wit h certain identified independence 
requirements is appropriate for the purpose of the agreed-upon procedures engagement: 
x The purpose of the agreed-upon procedures engagement; 
x The identity of the engaging party, other intended users and responsible party (if different from the 
engaging party); 
x The nature, timing and extent of the procedures to be performed; or 
x Other engagements that the practitioner is performing or has pe rformed for the engaging party, 
other intended users or the responsible party (if different from the engaging party). 
A38. The practitioner may be the auditor of the financial statements  of the engaging party (or responsible 
party if different from the engaging party). In such a circumstance, if the practitioner is also engaged to 
conduct an agreed-upon procedures engagement, intended users of  the agreed-upon procedures report 
may assume that the practitioner is independent for the purpose  of the agreed-upon procedures 
engagement. Therefore, the practitioner may agree with the enga ging party that the practitioner’s 
compliance with the independence requirements applicable to aud its of financial statements is 
appropriate for the purpose of the agreed-upon procedures engagement. In such a case, a statement that 
the practitioner is required to comply with such independence r equirements is included in the terms of 
the engagement, in accordance with paragraph 24(e). 
 
Agreeing the Terms of the Engagement (Ref: Para. 24–25) 
A39. When relevant, additional matters may be included in the engagement letter, for example:  
x Arrangements concerning the involvement of a practitioner’s exp ert in some aspects of the agreed-
upon procedures engagement. 
x Any restrictions on the use or distribution of the agreed-upon procedures report. 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    19A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
A40. An illustrative engagement letter for an agreed-upon procedures engagement is set out in Appendix 1.  
A41. The practitioner may agree with the engaging party that the pro cedures to be performed will include 
quantitative thresholds for determining exceptions. If so, thes e quantitative thresholds are included in 
the descriptions of the procedures in the terms of the engagement.  
A42. In some circumstances, law or regulation may prescribe only the  nature of the procedures to be 
performed. In such circumstances, in accordance with paragraph 24(i), the practitioner agrees the timing 
and extent of procedures to be performed with the engaging party so that the engaging party has a basis 
to acknowledge that the procedures to be performed are appropriate for the purpose of the engagement.  
A43. In some circumstances, agreeing the terms of engagement and per forming the agreed-upon procedures 
takes place in a linear and discrete manner. In other circumsta nces, agreeing the terms of engagement 
and performing the agreed-upon procedures is an iterative proce ss, with changes to the agreed-upon 
procedures being agreed as the engagement progresses in response to new information coming to light. 
If procedures that have been previously agreed upon need to be modified, paragraph 25 requires the 
practitioner to agree the amended terms of engagement with the engaging party. The amended terms of 
engagement may, for example, take the form of an updated engage ment letter, an addendum to an 
existing engagement letter, or other form of written acknowledgement.  
 
Recurring Engagements (Ref: Para. 26) 
A44. The practitioner may decide not to send a new engagement letter  or other written agreement for a 
recurring engagement. However, the following factors may indica te that it is appropriate to revise the 
terms of the engagement, or to remind the engaging party of the existing terms of the engagement: 
x Any indication that the engaging party misunderstands the purpose of the agreed-upon procedures 
engagement or the nature, timing or extent of the agreed-upon procedures. 
x Any revised or special terms of the engagement, including any c hanges in the previously agreed-
upon procedures. 
x A change in legal, regulatory or contractual requirements affecting the engagement. 
x A change in management or those charged with governance of the engaging party.  
Performing the Agreed-Upon Procedures (Ref: Para. 28) 
A45. The practitioner may decide to request written representations in some circumstances, for example: 
x If the agreed-upon procedures involve inquiries, the practition er may request written 
representations on the responses that have been provided verbally. 
x If the engaging party is not the responsible party, the practitioner may agree with the engaging party 
to include, as an agreed-upon procedure, requests for written r epresentations from the responsible 
party.  
 
Using the Work of a Practitioner’s Expert (Ref: Para. 29) 
A46. Using the work of a practitioner’s expert may involve the use of an expert to assist the practitioner in: 
x Discussing with the engaging party the agreed-upon procedures t o be performed. For example, a 
lawyer may provide suggestions to the practitioner on the desig n of a procedure to address legal 
aspects of a contract; or 

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
x Performing one or more of the agreed-upon procedure(s). For example, a chemist may perform one 
of the agreed-upon procedures such as determining the toxin levels in a sample of grains. 
A47. A practitioner’s expert may be an external expert engaged by the practitioner or an internal expert who 
is part of the firm and therefore subject to the firm’s system of quality control. The practitioner is entitled 
to rely on the firm’s system of quality control, unless informa tion provided by the firm or other parties 
suggests otherwise. The extent of that reliance will vary with the circumstances and may affect the 
nature, timing and extent of the practitioner’s procedures with respect to matters such as: 
x Competence and capabilities, through recruitment and training programs. 
x The practitioner’s evaluation of the objectivity of the practitioner’s expert. 
x Agreement with the practitioner’s expert. 
Such reliance does not reduce the practitioner’s responsibility to meet the requirements of this SLSRS.  
A48. If the practitioner’s expert is p erforming one or more of the a greed-upon procedure(s), the agreement 
of the nature, scope and objectives of that expert’s work as re quired by paragraph 29(b) includes the 
nature, timing and extent of the procedure(s) to be performed by the practitioner’s expert. In addition to 
the matters required by paragraph 29(b), it may be appropriate for the practitioner’s agreement with the 
practitioner’s expert to include matters such as the following: 
(a) The respective roles and responsibilities of the practitioner and that expert; 
(b) The nature, timing and extent of communication between the practitioner and that expert, including 
the form of any report to be provided by that expert; and 
(c) The need for the practitioner’s expert to observe confidentiality requirements.  
A49. The matters noted in paragraph A47 may affect the level of deta il and formality of the agreement 
between the practitioner and the practitioner’s expert, includi ng whether it is appropriate that the 
agreement be in writing. The agreement between the practitioner  and the practitioner’s external expert 
is often in the form of an engagement letter.  
A50. When the work of a practitioner’s  expert is to be used, it may be appropriate to perform some of the 
procedures required by paragraph 29 at the engagement acceptance or continuance stage.  
 
The Agreed-Upon Procedures Report (Ref: Para. 30–33) 
A51. Appendix 2 contains illustrations of agreed-upon procedures reports.  
Subject Matter on which the Agreed-Upon Procedures Are Performed (Ref: Para. 30(c)) 
A52. If applicable, to avoid misunderstanding, the practitioner may wish to clarify that the agreed-upon 
procedures report does not extend to information beyond subject  matters on which the agreed-upon 
procedures are performed. For example, if the practitioner was engaged to perform agreed-upon 
procedures on an entity’s accounts receivable and inventory, th e practitioner may wish to include a 
statement that the agreed-upon procedures report relates only t o these accounts and does not extend to 
the entity’s financial statements taken as a whole. 
Purpose of the Agreed-Upon Procedures Report (Ref: Para. 30(d)) 
A53. In addition to the statement required by paragraph 30(d), the practitioner may consider it appropriate to 
indicate that the agreed-upon procedures report is intended sol ely for the engaging party and the 
intended users. Depending on the law or regulation of the parti cular jurisdiction, this may be achieved 
by restricting the distribution or use of the agreed-upon procedures report. In some jurisdictions, it may 
be possible to restrict the use of the agreed-upon procedures r eport but not its distribution. In other 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    21A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
jurisdictions, it may be possible to restrict the distribution of the agreed-upon procedures report but not 
its use. 
A54. Factors that the practitioner may consider in deciding whet her to restrict the distribution or use of 
agreed-upon procedures report (if permitted to do so) include, for example whether:
x There is an elevated risk of users other than the intended users misunderstanding the purpose of the
agreed-upon procedures engagement or misinterpreting the findings.
x The agreed-upon procedures are designed solely for the use of i nternal users such as management
and those charged with governance of the engaging party.
x The agreed-upon procedures or findings involve confidential information.
Agreed-Upon Procedures and Findings (Ref: Para. 30(n)–30(o))
A55. If the practitioner is unable to describe the agreed-upon p rocedures or findings without including 
confidential or sensitive information, the practitioner may consider:
x Consulting internally (for example, within the firm or network firm);
x Consulting externally (for example, with the relevant professional body or another practitioner); or
x Obtaining legal advice,
to understand the professional or legal implications of taking any particular course of action.
A56. There may be circumstances when the fact that previously ag reed-upon procedures have not been 
performed or have been modified is important to the intended us ers’ consideration of the agreed-upon 
procedures and findings. For example, this may be the case when  the procedures are set out in law or 
regulation. In such circumstances, the practitioner may identif y, in the agreed-upon procedures report, 
the procedures agreed in the original terms of the engagement w hich could not be performed or were 
modified, and why that has arisen.
A57. The practitioner may refer to the date when the agreed-upon procedures were agreed in the terms of the 
engagement. 
Reference to Practitioner’s Expert (Ref: Para. 31)
A58. In some circumstances, law or regulation may require a reference, in the agreed-upon procedures report, 
to a practitioner’s expert who performed any of the agreed-upon procedures. For example, such a 
reference may be required for the purposes of transparency in t he public sector. The practitioner may 
also consider it appropriate in other circumstances, for exampl e, when referring to the practitioner’s 
expert when describing the agreed-upon procedures. Nonetheless,  the practitioner has sole 
responsibility for the findings included in the agreed-upon pro cedures report, and that responsibility is 
not reduced by the use of the practitioner’s expert. It is impo rtant therefore that if the agreed-upon 
procedures report refers to the practitioner’s expert, the repo rt does not imply that the practitioner’s 
responsibility is reduced because of the reference to the practitioner’s expert.
Undertaking an Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagement Together with another Engagement (Ref: 
Para.34)
A59. A practitioner may be reques ted to perform other engagement s together with the agreed-upon 
procedures engagement, such as providing recommendations arisin g from the agreed-upon procedures 

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
engagement. Such requests may take the form of one request for the practitioner to perform agreed-
upon procedures and make recommendations, and the terms of the various engagements may be set out 
in a single engagement letter. To avoid misunderstanding, parag raph 34 requires that the agreed-upon 
procedures report be clearly dis tinguished from the reports of other engagements. For example, the 
recommendations may be: 
x Provided in a separate document from the agreed-upon procedures report; or 
x Included in a document that contains both the agreed-upon procedures report and recommendations 
but the recommendations are clearly differentiated from the agr eed-upon procedures report, for 
example, by including the agreed-upon procedures report and the  recommendations in separate 
sections of the document. 
Documentation (Ref: Para. 35)  
A60. Documentation of the nature, timing and extent of the agre ed-upon procedures performed may include 
a record of, for example: 
x The identifying characteristics of the subject matter(s) on whi ch the agreed-upon procedures are 
performed. Identifying characteristics will vary depending on t he nature of the agreed-upon 
procedure and the subject matter(s) on which the agreed-upon pr ocedure is performed. For 
example: 
o For a procedure on purchase orde rs, the practitioner may identi fy the documents selected by 
their dates and unique purchase order numbers. 
o For a procedure requiring selection of all items over a specific amount from a given population, 
the practitioner may record the scope of the procedure and identify the population (for example, 
all journal entries over a specified amount from the journal re gister for a specific period, all 
timesheets for hours recorded over a certain number for specifi ed months or every tenth item 
on a specific list). 
o For a procedure requiring inquiries of specific personnel, the practitioner may record the dates 
of the inquiries, the names and job designations of the personn el and the specific inquiries 
made. 
o For an observation procedure, the  practitioner may record the p rocess or matter being 
observed, the relevant individuals, their respective responsibi lities, and where and when the 
observation was carried out. 
x Who performed the agreed-upon procedures and the date such procedures were performed. 
x Who reviewed the agreed-upon procedures performed, and the date and extent of such review. 
 
 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    23A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Appendix 1 
(Ref: Para. A40) 
Illustrative Engagement Letter for an Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagement 
The following is an example of an engagement letter for an agreed-upon procedures engagement that illustrates 
the relevant requirements and guidance contained in this SLSRS. This letter is not authoritative and is intended 
only to be a guide that may be used in conjunction with the considerations outlined in this SLSRS. It will need 
to be adapted according to the requirements and circumstances o f individual agreed-upon procedures 
engagements. It is drafted to refer to an agreed-upon procedures engagement for a single reporting period and 
would require adaptation if intended or expected to apply to a recurring engagement as described in this 
SLSRS. It may be appropriate to seek legal advice that any proposed letter is suitable. 
To [Engaging Party] 
 
You have requested that we perform an agreed-upon procedures en gagement on the procurement of [xyz] 
products. This letter is to confirm our understanding of the te rms and objectives of our engagement and the 
nature and limitations of the services that we will provide. Ou r engagement will be conducted in accordance 
with the Sri Lanka Standard on Related Services (SLSRS) 4400 (R evised), Agreed-Upon Procedures 
Engagements. In performing the agreed-upon procedures engagement, we will comply with [describe the 
relevant ethical requirements], which does not require us to be independent. 
 
An agreed-upon procedures engagement performed under SLSRS 4400 (Revised) involves our performing the 
procedures agreed with you, and communicating the findings in t he agreed-upon procedures report. Findings 
are the factual results of the agreed-upon procedures performed . You [and if relevant, other parties] 
acknowledge that the procedures are appropriate for the purpose  of the engagement. We make no 
representation regarding the appropriateness of the procedures. This agreed-upon procedures engagement will 
be conducted on the basis that [Responsible Party] is responsib le for the subject matter on which the agreed-
upon procedures are performed. Further, this agreed-upon proced ures engagement is not an assurance 
engagement. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion or an assurance conclusion. 
 
The procedures that we will perform are solely for the purpose of assisting you in determining whether your 
procurement of [xyz] products is compliant with your procuremen t policies.
7 Accordingly, our report will be 
addressed to you and our report may not be suitable for another purpose.  
 
We have agreed to perform the following procedures and report to you the findings resulting from our work:  
x Obtain from management of [Responsible Party] a listing of all contracts signed between [January 1, 
20X1] and [December 31, 20X1] for [xyz] products (“listing”) an d identify all contracts valued at over 
Rs.25,000. 
x For each identified contract valued at over Rs. 25,000 on the l isting, compare the contract to the records 
of bidding and determine whether each contract was subject to b idding by at least 3 contractors from 
[Responsible Party]’s “Pre-qualified Contractors List.” 
  
                                                           
7 In this case, the engaging party is also the intended user. 

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
x For each identified contract valued at over Rs.25,000 on the li sting, compare the amount payable per the 
signed contract to the amount ultimately paid by [Responsible P arty] to the contractor and determine 
whether the amount ultimately paid is the same as the agreed amount in the contract. 
 
The procedures are to be performed between [Date] and [Date].  
Our Agreed-Upon Procedures Report  
 
As part of our engagement, we will issue our report, which will  describe the agreed-upon procedures and the 
findings of the procedures performed [insert appropriate refere nce to the expected form and content of the 
agreed-upon procedures report].  
 
Please sign and return the attached copy of this letter to indi cate your acknowledgement of, and agreement 
with, the arrangements for our engagement, including the specif ic procedures which we have agreed will be 
performed and that they are appropriate for the purpose of the engagement. 
 
[Insert other information, such as fee arrangements, billings and other specific terms, as appropriate.]  
 
[Firm’s name] 
 
Acknowledged and agreed on behalf of [Engaging party’s name] by: 
 
[Signature] 
 
[Name and Title] 
 
[Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    25A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Appendix 2  
(Ref: Para. A51) 
Illustrations of Agreed-Upon Procedures Reports 
Illustration 1  
For purposes of this illustrative agreed-upon procedures report, the following circumstances are assumed: 
x The engaging party is the addressee and the only intended user. The engaging party is not the responsible 
party. For example, the regulator is the engaging party and intended user, and the entity overseen by the 
regulator is the responsible party. 
x No exceptions were found. 
x The practitioner did not engage a practitioner’s expert to perform any of the agreed-upon procedures. 
x There is no restriction on the use or distribution of the report. 
x There are no independence requirements with which the practitioner is required to comply. 
x A quantitative threshold of Rs. 100 for reporting exceptions in Procedure 3 has been agr eed with the 
engaging party. 
AGREED-UPON PROCEDURES REPORT ON PROCUREMENT OF [XYZ] PRODUCTS 
To [Addressee] 
Purpose of this Agreed-Upon Procedures Report 
Our report is solely for the purpose of assisting [Engaging Par ty] in determining whether its procurement of 
[xyz] products is compliant with its procurement policies and may not be suitable for another purpose. 
Responsibilities of the Engaging Party and the Responsible Party 
[Engaging Party] has acknowledged that the agreed-upon procedur es are appropriate for the purpose of the 
engagement.  
 
[Responsible Party], as identified  by [Engaging Party], is resp onsible for the subject matter on which the 
agreed-upon procedures are performed. 
Practitioner’s Responsibilities 
We have conducted the agreed-upon procedures engagement in acco rdance with the Sri Lanka Standard on 
Related Services (SLSRS) 4400 (Revised), Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagements . An agreed-upon 
procedures engagement involves our performing the procedures that have been agreed with [Engaging Party], 
and reporting the findings, which are the factual results of th e agreed-upon procedures performed. We make 
no representation regarding the appropriateness of the agreed-upon procedures. 
This agreed-upon procedures engagement is not an assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express an 
opinion or an assurance conclusion. 
 

<!-- page 26 -->

26A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
Had we performed additional procedures, other matters might have come to our attention that would have been 
reported.
Professional Ethics and Quality Control 
We have complied with the ethical requirements in [describe the  relevant ethical requirements]. For the 
purpose of this engagement, there are no independence requirements with which we are required to comply.
Our firm applies Sri Lanka Standard on Quality Control (SLSQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform 
Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements , and 
accordingly, maintains a comprehensive system of quality contro l including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, prof essional standards and applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements.
Procedures and Findings
We have performed the procedures described below, which were ag reed upon with [Engaging Party], on the 
procurement of [xyz] products.
Procedures Findings
1 Obtain from management of [Responsible 
Party] a listing of all contracts signed between 
[January 1, 20X1] and [December 31, 20X1] for 
[xyz] products (“listing”) and identify all 
contracts valued at over Rs.25,000.
We obtained from management a listing of all 
contracts for [xyz] products which were signed 
between [January 1, 20X1] and [December 31, 
20X1]. 
Of the 125 contracts on the listing, we identified 
37 contracts valued at over Rs.25,000.
2 For each identified contract valued at over 
Rs.25,000 on the listing, compare the contract to 
the records of bidding and determine whether 
the contract was subject to bidding by at least 3 
contractors from [Responsible Party]’s “Pre -
qualified Contractors List.”
We inspected the records of bidding related to the 
37 contracts valued at over Rs.25,000. We found 
that all of the 37 contracts were subject to bidding 
by at least 3 contractors from the [Responsible 
Party]’s “Pre
-qualified Contractors List.”
3 For each identified contract valued at over 
Rs.25,000 on the listing, compare the amount 
payable per the signed contract to the amount 
ultimately paid by [Responsible Party] to the 
contractor and determine whether the amount 
ultimately paid is within Rs.100 of the agreed 
amount in the contract.
We obtained the signed contracts for the 37 
contracts valued at over Rs.25,000 on the listing 
and compared the amounts payable in the 
contracts to the amounts ultimately paid by 
[Responsible Party] to the contractor.
We found that the amounts ultimately paid were 
within Rs.100 of the agreed amounts in all of the 
37 contracts with no exceptions noted.
[Practitioner’s signature]
[Date of practitioner’s report]
[Practitioner’s address]

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    27A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
 
 
Illustration 2  
For purposes of this illustrative agreed-upon procedures report , the following circumstances are 
assumed: 
x The engaging party is the responsible party. The intended user,  who is different from the 
engaging party, is an addressee in addition to the engaging party. For example, the regulator is 
the intended user and the entity overseen by the regulator is the engaging party and responsible 
party. 
x Exceptions were found. 
x The practitioner engaged a practitioner’s exp ert to perform an agreed-upon procedure and a 
reference to that expert is included in the agreed-upon procedures report. 
x There is a restriction on the use and distribution of the report. 
x The practitioner is the auditor of the financial statements of the engaging party (who is the 
responsible party). The practitioner has agreed with the engagi ng party that the practitioner’s 
compliance with the independence requirements applicable to aud its of financial statements is 
appropriate for the purpose of the agreed-upon procedures engag ement. The practitioner has 
agreed to include, in the terms of engagement, compliance with the independence requirements 
applicable to audits of financial statements for the purpose of  the agreed-upon procedures 
engagement. 
x The practitioner included a reference to the date when the agreed-upon procedures were agreed 
in the terms of the engagement. 
 
AGREED-UPON PROCEDURES REPORT ON PROCUREMENT OF [XYZ] PRODUCTS 
 
To [Addressees] 
Purpose of this Agreed-Upon Procedures Report and Restriction on Use and Distribution 
 
Our report is solely for the purpose of assisting [Intended User] in determining whether the [Engaging Party]’s 
procurement of [xyz] products is compliant with [Intended User] ’s procurement policies and may not be 
suitable for another purpose. This report is intended solely fo r [Engaging Party] and [Intended Users], and 
should not be used by, or distributed to, any other parties.  
 
Responsibilities of the Engaging Party 
 
[Engaging Party] has acknowledged that the agreed-upon procedur es are appropriate for the purpose of the 
engagement.  
 
[Engaging Party (also the Responsible Party)] is responsible fo r the subject matter on which the agreed-upon 
procedures are performed. 
 

<!-- page 28 -->

28A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
Practitioner’s Responsibilities
We have conducted the agreed-upon procedures engagement in accordance with the Sri Lanka Standard on 
Related Services (SLSRS) 4400 (Revised), Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagements . An agreed-upon 
procedures engagement involves our performing the procedures that have been agreed with [Engaging Party],
and reporting the findings, which are the factual results of th e agreed-upon procedures performed. We make 
no representation regarding the appropriateness of the agreed-upon procedures.
This agreed-upon procedures engagement is not an assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express an 
opinion or an assurance conclusion.
Had we performed additional procedures, other matters might have come to our attention that would have been 
reported.
Professional Ethics and Quality Control 
We have complied with the ethical requirements in [describe the  relevant ethical requirements] and the 
independence requirements in accordance with [describe the relevant independence requirements].
8
Our firm applies Sri Lanka Standard on Quality Control (SLSQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform 
Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements , and 
accordingly, maintains a comprehensive system of quality contro l including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, prof essional standards and applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements.
Procedures and Findings
We have performed the procedures described below, which were agreed upon with [Engaging Party] in the 
terms of engagement dated [DATE], on the procurement of [xyz] products.
Procedures Findings
1 Obtain from management of [Engaging 
Party] a listing of all contracts signed 
between [January 1, 20X1] and [December 
31, 20X1] for [xyz] products (“listing”) 
and identify all contracts valued at over 
Rs.25,000.
We obtained from management a listing of all contracts 
for [xyz] products which were signed between [January 
1, 20X1] and [December 31, 20X1]. 
Of the 125 contracts on the  listing, we id entified 37 
contracts valued at over Rs.25,000.
8 For example, if the CA Sri Lanka Code is the relevant ethical r equirements, this sentence may be worded along the 
following: “We have complied with the ethical requirements of Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka Code)”. 

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    29A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
Procedures Findings
2 For each identified contract valued at over 
Rs.25,000 on the listing, compare the 
contract to the records of bidding and 
determine whether the contract was 
subject to bidding by at least 3 contractors 
from [Engaging Party]’s “Pre -qualified 
Contractors List.” For records of bidding 
that were submitted in [foreign language], 
translate the records of bidding with the 
assistance of a translator engaged by the 
practitioner before performing the 
comparison.
We inspected the records of bidding related to the 37 
contracts valued at over Rs.25,000. Of the records of 
bidding related to the 37 contracts, 5 were submitted in 
[foreign language]. We engaged a translator to assist us 
in the translat
ion of these 5 records of bidding.
We found that 36 of the 37 contracts were subject to 
bidding by at least 3 contractors from [Engaging 
Party]’s “Pre-qualified Contractors List.”
We found 1 contract valued at Rs. 65,000 that was not 
subject to bidding. Management has represented to us 
that the reason that this contract was not subject to 
bidding was due to an emergency to meet a contractual 
deadline.
The engagement of the translator to assist us in the 
translation of the records of bidding does not reduce 
our responsibility for performing the procedures and 
reporting the findings.
3 For each identified contract valued at over 
Rs.25,000 on the listing, compare the 
amount payable per the signed contract to 
the amount ultimately paid by [Engaging 
Party] to the supplier and determine 
whether the amount ultimately paid is the 
same as the agreed amount in the contract.
We obtained the signed contracts for the 37 contracts 
valued at over Rs.25,000 on the listing and compared 
the amounts payable in the contracts to the amounts 
ultimately paid by [Engaging Party] to the supplier.
We found that the amounts payable in the signed 
contracts differed from the amounts ultimately paid by 
[Engaging Party] for 26 of the 37 contracts. In all these 
cases, management has represented to us that the 
difference in the amounts were to accommodate an 
increase of 1% in the sales tax rate of [jurisdiction] that 
became effective in September 20X1.
[Practitioner’s signature]
[Date of practitioner’s report]
[Practitioner’s address]
(2*
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA