

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1479
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1474
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"236 – 2021 cQ,s ui 09 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'07'09
No. 2,236 –  fRiday,  july 09, 2021
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE ”
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th july, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th july, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1471 - B 82247 - 5,403 (07/2021)      
Note.–  Milco Milk Producers' foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of july 02, 2021.
N. B.–  Part iii, iV(a) and iV(B) of the Gazette No. 2,235 of 02.07.2021 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1472
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
lankan. a “Sri lankan” is a citizen of Sri lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
january 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1473
RuLES  AND INSTRuCTIONS  fOR ExAmINATION  CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 II. Disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. In case the supervisor or the examination staff  
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. It is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1474
Posts – vacant
uNIvERSITy hOSPITAL
General Sir John kotelawala Defence university
GENERal  Sir john Kotelawala defence university 
Hospital calls Applications From Qualified Persons for the 
following Posts.
1. Para medical  - Special  Grade
• Radiographer ( Diagnosis)
• Radiographer (Therapist)
• Medical Laboratory Technician
• Physiotherapist
• Pharmacist
• Ophthalmic Technologist
Qualifications:
 i. Should have completed at least ten years (10) 
of satisfactory service in Grade i of the service 
category.
  aNd
 ii. if has worked under the Ministry of Health, having 
passed all the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination 
and earned ten (10) salary increments.
Age Limit: Must  be not less than 22 years and not more 
than 55 years.
Salary Scale: Mt 8 Rs.(50,970 – 10 ×1,385 – 8 × 1,910 
– Rs. 80,100)
* Special Grade Para Medicals are placed in 3
rd step of 
Mt 8 – Rs. 53,740.00
        
2. Matron - Special Grade Nursing Officer
Qualifications:
 i. Should be a Special Grade Nursing Officer.
  aNd
 ii.  Should have Successfully completed the 1 ½ 
year diploma which include ward Management 
and   Supervision  / teaching and Supervising / 
Public Health Nursing and Midwifery / Psychiatry 
conducted by the National institute for Nursing 
Education /  Post Basic Nursing School and 
should have completed 05 years of experience 
in a Grade I Nursing Officer (Hospital Service, 
Education, Public Health) post.
  aNd
 iii. Having completed the 3
rd Efficiency Bar 
Examination.
  aNd
 iv. Having earned all due salary increments and 
completed a satisfactory service period during the 
immediately preceding 05 years.
  aNd
 v. Performance above satisfactory level in the 
05 years prior to the date of promotion as per 
approved performance appraisal procedure.
Age Limit: Must be not less than 25 years and not more 
than 55 years.
Salary Scale: Mt8 - Rs. (50,970 -10 x 1385 - 8 x 1910 
- 80,100)
* Matrons (Special Grade) are placed 4
th step of Mt  
8 - Rs.55,125
3.  Nursing Sister
Qualifications:
 i. Should be a Grade 1 Nursing Officer ;
  aNd
 ii. Should be a Nursing Officer who has followed 
and passed the 1 ½ year diploma course in 
Ward Management and Supervision / teaching 
and Supervising / Public Health Nursing and 
Midwifery / Mental Health Nursing, conducted 
by the National Nursing training School or Post 
Primary Nursing School ;
  aNd
 iii. Having passed the 2
nd Efficiency Bar Examination;
  aNd
 iv. Having earned all due salary increments and 
completed an active and satisfactory service 
period during the preceding 5 years ;

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1475
  aNd
 v. Performance above satisfactory level in the 
05 years prior to the date of  promotion as per 
approved performance appraisal procedure.  
 Age limit: Must be not less than 25 years and not more 
than 55 years.
Salary scale: Mt 7 - Rs: (33,295 - 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 - 
10 x 730 – 5 x 750 – Rs. 59,805)
* the Nursing sister is placed at Mt  7 step 23. -                      
Rs. 45,735.00
4. Nursing Officer
Qualifications:
 i. Shall Possess a BSc degree in Nursing or diploma 
in Nursing from a recognized university or from 
the Ministry of Health ;
  aNd
 ii. Shall have passed all subjects in Biology or 
Mathematics or agriculture Streams (Except 
common General test) at one sitting at the G.c.E. 
(A/L) Examination or three (03) subjects of the 
old syllabus in the same streams at one sitting ;
  aNd
 iii. Shall have passed six (06) subjects at not more 
than two sittings with four (04) credit passes for 
Sinhala / tamil language, Mathematics, Science 
and English at the G.c.E. (o/l) Examination.
Age Limit: Shall not be less than 22 years and not more 
than 45 years.
Salary Scale: Mt 7 –Rs.(33,295 - 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 
10 x 730 - 5 x750 - 59,805)
* Nursing officer is placed under the 1
st step of  Mt – 7.
 
5.  Pharmacist
Qualifications:
 i. Passed the G.c.E. (o/l) Examination in six 
subjects with four Credit passes including Sinhala 
/ tamil, Mathematics, and Science at one sitting 
and passed the English language at not more than 
two sittings ;
  AND
 ii. Passed the G.c.E. (a/l) Examination in three 
subjects with a Credit pass for Chemistry and two 
other subjects of Combined Mathematics, Biology, 
Physics or Agriculture at one sitting ;
  AND
 iii.    (a) Should have a degree in Pharmacology / 
Science (Pharmacology) from a university 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission or from an institution recognized 
by the university Grants commission as a 
degree awarding institution;
  OR
  (b)  Should have completed the two-year, full-
time diploma course in Pharmacology 
conducted by the Ministry of Health ;
   AND
 iv. (a)  Registration of Sri lanka Medical council 
(SLMC) to practice as a Pharmacist ;
  OR
  (b)  if the applicant possesses a foreign degree, 
should have registered in Sri lanka Medical 
council for practicing as a Pharmacist in Sri 
lanka.
Age limit: Must be not less than 22 years and not more 
than 45 years.
Salary scale: Mt 6 - Rs: (32,850 - 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 - 
10 x 730 – 10 x 750 – Rs. 59,360)
*Pharmacist is placed in 1
st step of Mt 6.
6.  Radiographer (Therapist)
Qualifications:
 i. Passed the GcE (o / l  ) Examination in six 
subjects with four Credit passes including 
Sinhala / tamil, Mathematics and Science at 
one sitting and passed English language at not 
more than two sittings ;
  aNd

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1476
 ii. Passed the G.c.E. (a/l) Examination with a 
Credit pass for Physics, and two other subjects 
including combined Mathematics, Biology, 
Chemistry or Agriculture at one sitting ;
  aNd
 iii.   (a) Bachelor's degree in Radiotherapy / 
Radiology from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission or 
an institution recognized by the university 
Grants commission as a degree awarding 
institution ;
   oR
  (b) Should have passed the two-year diploma 
training course in Radiographer  
conducted by the Ministry of Health ;
   aNd
 iv. (a) Should have registered with the Sri 
lanka Medical council to work as  a 
Radiographer in Sri Lanka ;
   oR
  (b) if the applicant possesses a foreign 
degree, should have registered in Sri 
lanka Medical council for practicing as a 
Radiographer in Sri lanka.
Age limit: Must be not less than 22 years and not more 
than 45 years.
Salary scale: Mt 6 – (Rs. 32,850 - 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 
- 10 x 730 – 10 x 750 –   59,360) 
*Radiographer is placed in 1
st step of Mt-6.
7.  Occupational Therapist
Qualifications:
 i. Passed the G.c.E. (o/l) Examination in six 
subjects with four Credit passes including Sinhala 
/ tamil, Mathematics and Science at one sitting 
and passed English language at not more than two 
sittings ;
  aNd
 ii. Passed the G.c.E. (a/l) Examination in three 
subjects with a Credit pass for Physics and two 
other subjects of Combined Mathematics, Biology, 
chemistry or agriculture at one sitting. 
  aNd
 iii.   (a) Should have a degree in occupational 
therapist from a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission or from 
and institution recognized by the university 
Grants commission as a degree awarding 
Institution ;
   oR
  (b) Should have completed the two-year full-
time diploma course in occupational 
therapist conducted by the Ministry of 
Health ;
   aNd
 iv. (a) Should have registered with the Sri lanka 
Medical council to work as an occupational 
Therapist ;
   oR
  (b) if the applicant possesses a foreign degree, 
should have registered in Sri lanka Medical 
council for practicing as an occupational 
therapist in Sri lanka.
Age limit: Must be not less than 22 years and not more 
than 45 years.
  
Salary scale: Mt 6 – (Rs. 32,850 - 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 
- 10 x 730 – 10 x 750 – Rs. 59,360)
*occupational therapist is placed under 1
st step of Mt-6.
8.  Dental Technician 
Qualifications:
 i. Passed the G.c.E. (o/l) Examination in six 
subjects including English Language, with 
credit passes for Sinhala / tamil, Mathematics, 
Science and one other subject at not more than 
two sittings ; 
  aNd
 ii. Passed the G.c.E. (a/l) Examination in 
the Science Stream with a credit pass for 
Chemistry and passed two other subjects from 
Physics, Biology or Agriculture at one sitting ; 
  aNd
 iii. Should have passed the two-year full-time 
diploma course for dental technicians 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1477
conducted by the faculty of dental, university 
of Peradeniya or Ministry of Health ;
  aNd
 iv. Should have registered with the Sri lanka 
Medical council.
Age limit: Must be not less than 22 years and not more 
than 45 years.
Salary scale: Mt 6 - Rs. (32,850 - 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 - 
10 x 730 – 10 x 750 – 59,360 )
 *dental technician is placed under 1st step of Mt- 6. 
9.  Ophthalmic Technologist
Qualifications:
 i. Passed the G.c.E. (o/l) Examination in six 
subjects including English Language with Credit 
passes for Sinhala / tamil, Mathematics, Science 
and one other subject at not more than two 
sittings ; 
  aNd
 ii. Passed the G.c.E. (a/l) Examination in the 
Science Stream with a credit pass for Physics 
and two other subjects from Chemistry, Biology 
or Agriculture at one sitting ; 
  aNd
 iii. Should have passed the two-year full-time 
diploma in ophthalmic technology course 
conducted by the Ministry of Health ; 
  aNd
 iv (a)  Should have registered with the Sri lanka 
Medical council to work as  an ophthalmic 
Technologist in Sri Lanka ; 
  oR
  (b) if the applicant possesses a foreign degree, 
should have registered in Sri lanka Medical 
council for practicing as an ophthalmic 
technologist in Sri lanka.
Age limit: Must be not less than 22 years and not more 
than 45 years.
Salary scale:  Mt 6 - Rs. (32,850 - 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 
- 10 x 730 – 10 x 750 – 59,360)
* ophthalmic technologist is placed under 1
st step of 
Mt- 6.
 10.    Orthoptist
Qualifications:
 i. Should have been confirmed in service as an 
Ophthalmic Technologist ;
  aNd
 ii. Should be in Grade ii or above   in the service 
category having passed the satisfactory 
Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date and 
should have completed an active service period 
of five (05) years to the closing  date of the 
application ;
  aNd
 iii. Shall have completed the 06 months training 
in orthoptist conducted by the National Eye 
Hospital Sri lanka and should have passed the 
final examination ;
  aNd
 iv. Shall be registered in the Sri lanka Medical 
council. 
Age Limit: Shall not be less than 22 years and not more 
than 45 years. 
Salary Scale: Mt 6 - Rs. (32,850 - 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 
- 10 x 730 – 10 x 750 – 59,360)
          
* orthoptist is placed in 1
st step of Mt – 6.
11.  midwife
Qualifications:
 i. Shall have passed in six (06) subjects including 
English with four (04) credit  passes for Sinhala 
/ tamil language, Mathematics, Science and one 
other subject at not more than two sittings at the 
G.c.E. (o/l) Examination.
         aNd

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1478
 ii. Shall have passed three subjects from Bio Science, Physics, Agriculture or  Chemistry at one sitting at the G.C.E. 
(a/l) Examination.
  aNd
 iii. Should have obtained the Diploma Certificate after successfully completing  the full-time ½ years Diploma for 
Midwifery conducted by Ministry of Health.
  aNd
 iv. only females can apply.
Age Limit: Shall not be less than 22 years and not more than 55 years.
Salary Scale: Mt 5 - Rs. (32,405 - 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 10 x 730 - 10 x 750 - Rs. 58,915)
* Midwife is placed under 1
st step of  Mt – 5.
General Conditions:
 i. Shall be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 ii. Shall be adequate physical and mental fitness to discharge the duties of the post well, and to serve in the General 
Sir john Kotelawala defence university Hospital or at any other place, as may be determined by the university 
administration.
 iii. Shall be of excellent moral character.
 iv. The applicants should have completed all requisite qualifications by the closing date of applications.
 v. These posts are permanent and candidates who are not from the special grades are subject to a probation period of 
three (03) years, while officers, who had served in the posts of special grade in the public service, are subject to a 
probation period of one (01) year.
 vi. contribution of the employee to Employees Provident fund (EPf) is 10% and the university will contribute 15% 
for (EPF) and 3% for Employees Trust Fund (ETF).(Subject to revisions that may be introduced by Parliament by 
law).
 vii. Duly completed applications with certified copies of educational, professional and service certificates shall be 
submitted under registered post to  reach “Executive director, General Sir john Kotelawala defence university 
Hospital, Werahera” on or  before 25.07.2021. the post applied should be indicated on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope.
 viii. General Sir john Kotelawala defence university reserves the right to shortlist prospective applicants.
 ix. Incomplete or late applications and those which do not comply with the prescribed format will be rejected.
 x. application and other relevant details could be downloaded from the Kdu Website .
www.kdu.ac.lk
 General Kamal Gunarathne (Retd)
 WWV RWP RSP uSP ndc psc Mphil
 Secretary,
 Ministry of defence.
07–382

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1479
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTR y Of LAbOuR
 
Department of Labour
oPEN coMPEtitiVE  EXaMiNatioN  foR REcRuitMENt to tHE  PoStS  of SuPERViSoR y 
MaNaGEMENt aSSiStaNt - tEcHNical SERVicE  catEGoRy - 2021
aPPlicatioNS  are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who have fulfilled qualifications stated in paragraph 3.0 as at 
13.08.2021, the closing date of applications to be recruited on open basis, according to the Provisions of the Scheme of 
Recruitment approved by Public Service commission, for the below mentioned posts of the Supervisory Management 
assistant -technical Service category vacant as at 31.03.2021 in the department of labour, which comes under the Purview 
of the Ministry of labour.
1.0 The posts and the number of vacancies
Serial Number Designation No. of vacancies
1 Fingerprint Inspection Officer 3
2 Research assistant 3
3 Building inspector 3
4 draughtsman 2
5 Technical Officer (Civil) 1
6 Technical Officer (Electrical) 1
1.1 Nature of the duty of the post: Permanent and pensionable, (shall be subject to policy decisions taken by the 
government in future in respect of the Pension Scheme.)
1.2 Nature of the duties of the post
Approved Designation Duties
1. Fingerprint Inspection Officer in circumstances where the identity of the person claiming EPf 
cannot be confirmed and the monetary value payable is high and 
a request has been made by the relevant  Section, checking the 
fingerprints in the application and a,B,H forms and training on 
checking fingerprints, other duties assigned by the Head of the 
department.
2. Research assistant To assist the Research officer (Occupational Hygiene), 
Senior Research Officer (Occupational Hygiene) and Deputy 
commissioner of labour (occupational Hygiene) to take 
environmental measurements, biological measurements and 
scientific measurements on labour at work places, responsibility 
of condition of the equipment used to take physical measurements 
of the workplace environment, maintenance and tuning of those 
equipment, organization of activities related to collection of air

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1480
Approved Designation Duties
samples to determine chemical hazards in the workplace 
environment and preparation of air samples so collected for 
testing, maintenance of delicate laboratory equipment and assist 
research officers to handle those equipment properly, take and 
analyse anthropometric measurements of employees when in 
scientific studies on labour in workplaces, assist research officers 
to conduct sound sensivity and lung function tests of employees 
at a workplace where necessary and other duties entrusted by the 
Head of the department.
3. Building inspector Renovation activities of labour Secretariat  Building and Regional 
Labour Offices of the department of labour, supervision of new 
constructions, preparation of estimates,  inspection of work of 
the contractors, preparation of bills of quantities, supervisions of 
work of the Technical Officers, and other duties entrusted by the 
Head of the department.
4 draughtsman drawing of plans prepared by the Engineer, and other duties 
entrusted by the Head of department.
5 Technical Officer (Civil) Renovation activities of labour Secretariat  Building and 
Regional Labour Offices belonging to the department of labour,
supervision of new constructions, preparation of estimates, 
inspection of the work of contractors, preparation of bills of
quantities, supervision of the work of Technical Officers and 
other duties entrusted by the Head of the department.
6 Technical Officer (Electrical) Preparation of estimates with regard to new wiring systems 
and fixing of air conditioners, maintenance and servicing of air 
conditioners, inspecting the electrical  systems, preparation of 
estimates for modernization of above, inspection of the generators 
and preparation of reports after  checking the faults of electrical 
equipment with the Electrical technician and inspections on 
servicing electrical equipment, checking the speaker system and 
telephone networks, inspection of the electrical work carried out 
by outside institutions, inspection of maintenance and services 
of the District Offices and other duties entrusted by the Head of 
the department.
2.0 Scheme of Recruitment :
2.1 Recruitment to the above posts are made under 3 Grades in accordance with the qualifications of the applicants, 
i.e: training Grade (two years training period), training grade (one-year training period) and Grade iii (direct 
recruitment). The qualifications required for each grade have been stated under paragraph 3.0 and the grade 
applied for, should be clearly stated by the applicants in their applications.
2.2 Based on the results of a written examination and a general interview, recruitments are made firstly, to grade 
iii (direct recruitment) secondly, to training grade (two years’ training period) and, thirdly to training grade 
(one-year training period) subject to the conditions stated below under this Section.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1481
2.2.1 from the above three grades 
the candidates will be directly 
recruited to grade III, first. 
Qualified candidates shall 
be selected by calling for a 
general interview, the number of 
candidates equivalent to the 
number to be recruited, on the 
merit order of the total marks 
secured at the written examination by 
the candidates.
2.2.2 in instances where the number 
of candidates qualified for direct 
recruitment to Grade iii is not 
sufficient, the remaining vacancies 
shall be filled by the candidates who 
applied under training grade (one-
year training period) and passed 
the written examination. Qualified 
candidates shall be selected by calling 
for a general interview, the number of 
candidates equivalent to the number 
to be recruited, on the merit order of 
the total marks secured at the written 
examination by the candidates.
2.2.3 in instances where the number of 
candidates qualified as per 2.2.1 and 
2.2.2 above are not sufficient, the 
remaining vacancies will be filled 
by the candidates who fulfill the 
qualifications relevant to training 
grade (two years’ training period). 
Qualified  candidates  will be selected 
by calling for a general interview, 
the number of candidates equivalent 
to the number to be recruited, on the 
merit order of the total marks secured 
at the written examination by the 
candidates.
2.3 the general interview will be held to examine 
the physical fitness and the certificates. Marks 
will not be given for the general interview.
3.0 Qualifications : Qualifications relevant to each 
grade are as follows.
3.1 Educational and Professional Qualifications.
3.1.1 training Grade (two years’ training 
period)
(a) Educational Qualifications:
 Having passed the G.c.E (o/l) in 
six subjects with credit passes for 
Sinhala/ tamil/ English language, 
Science, Mathematics and one 
more subject, at one sitting
 and
 Having passed the G.c.E (a/l) 
examination in 02 subjects in 
Mathematics (Pure Mathematics/ 
applied Mathematics/ combined 
Mathematics) / Bio science 
(Zoology/ Botany), Physics, 
chemistry and technology (Bio - 
System t echnology, Engineering 
technology, Science technology), 
at one sitting.
3.1.2 training Grade (one-year training 
period)
 (a) Educational Qualifications :
 Having passed the G.c.E (o/l) 
Examination in six subjects (06) 
with credit passes for Sinhala/ 
tamil/ English language, Science, 
Mathematics and one more subject, 
at one sitting ;
 and
 Having passed the G.c.E (a/l) 
Examination in 02 subjects in 
Mathematics (Pure Mathematics/ 
applied Mathematics/ combined 
Mathematics)/ Bio Science 
(Zoology/ Botany), Physics, 
chemistry, at one sitting.
(b) Professional Qualifications :
 (i) Having obtained the National 
Certificate in Technology after 
successfully following a course 
in a field relevant to the post, in 
a technical college recognized 
by t ertiary and V ocational 
Education commission. 
(Ex: - National Certificate in 
technology: civil/ Electrical/ 
Mechanical) 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1482
  or
 (ii) Having obtained the relevant 
certificate after successful 
completion of a full time course 
of one year in draughtsman 
ship from a technical college 
recognized by t ertiary 
and V ocational Education 
commission 
  or
 (iii) Having obtained the relevant 
certificate, after successful 
completion of the National 
Certificate Course for 
industrial technicians in a 
field relevant to the post from a 
technical college recognized 
by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission
  or
 (iv) Having possessed any other 
technical qualification 
recognized by the tertiary 
and V ocational Education 
commission as being 
equivalent in each and 
every aspect to the technical 
qualifications mentioned 
above after obtaining views 
of the institutions such as the 
Ministry of Higher Education 
and other institutions by which 
the above certificates are 
issued.
3.1.3 Grade III (Direct recruitment) :
(a) Educational Qualifications :
Having passed the G.c.E (o/l) 
Examination in six subjects (06) 
with credit passes for Sinhala/ tamil/ 
English language, Mathematics, 
Science and one more subject, at one 
sitting
and
Having passed the G.c.E (a/l) 
Examination in 02 subjects in 
Mathematics (Pure Mathematics/ 
applied Mathematics/ combined 
Mathematics)/ Bio Science (Zoology/ 
Botany), Physics, chemistry, at one 
sitting.
(b) Professional Qualifications :
 Should have completed at least one of 
the following qualifications.
 i. National diploma in technology 
awarded by the university of 
Moratuwa or Hardly technical 
college - ampara
  or
 ii. National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the National 
apprenticeship and industrial 
training authority
  or
 iii. Higher National diploma in 
Engineering awarded by the 
Ministry of Education and Higher 
Education
  or
 iV . diploma in technology awarded 
by the open university of Sri 
lanka
  or
 V . Successful completion of part 1 
of the Engineering Examination 
conducted by the institution of 
Engineers, Sri lanka
  or
 Vi. completion of level 6 of National 
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) 
relevant to the field
  or
 VII. Any other technical qualification 
recognized by the tertiary 
and V ocational Educational 
commission as being equivalent 
in each and every aspect to the 
technical qualifications mentioned 
above after obtaining views of the 
institutions such as the Ministry 
of Higher Education and other 
institutions by which the above 
certificates are issued.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1483
3.2  Physical eligibility :
 all applicants shall have the physical and 
mental eligibility to serve in any part of Sri 
lanka and to perform the duties of the post.
3.3 Other Qualifications :
 (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 (ii) Shall be of excellent character.
 (iii) No person who is ordained in any 
religious  order shall become eligible 
to sit the examination.
 (iv) candidates are deemed to have 
possessed qualifications to sit 
the competitive examination for 
recruitment to the service only if, they 
have satisfied all the qualifications and 
the prescribed age limit in each and 
every aspect as at the date prescribed in 
the notification for calling applications.
4.0 Age limit.–  the minimum age as at the closing 
date of applications should not be less than 18 years and the 
maximum age should not be more than 30 years.
5.0 Terms of employment and Service Conditions :
5.1 after successful completion of relevant 
training period, the applicants recruited 
to training grade will have to sit for an 
examination, which is conducted by an 
institution determined by the commissioner 
General of labour. upon submission of the 
certificate issued by the respective institution 
to the effect that the applicant has passed the 
examination, the relevant applicant will be 
recruited to Grade iii of the service.
5.2 apprentices who fail to pass the examination 
will have the opportunity to get their training 
period extended for a period not more than 
six months. the apprentices who fail the 
examination which is held at the end of the 
extended training period will be terminated 
from service.
5.3 An officer recruited Grade III on the results 
of the open competitive examination will be 
subject to a probation period of 03 years. 
if the accomplishment of duties assigned 
and maintenance of discipline within the 
probation period are satisfactory and if 
he/she has passed the first efficiency bar 
examination and completed the proficiency 
in official language he/she will be confirmed 
in the post after the completion of the 
probation period.
5.4 in terms of Public administration circular 
No 18/2020 and the circulars incidental 
thereto, the relevant proficiency of the other 
official language should be acquired within 
3 years, after being recruited to the post in 
addition to the language in which the officer 
entered the service.
5.5 This appointment shall be subject to 
the procedural rules of Public Service 
commission, financial Regulations, 
Provisions of the Establishment code and any 
amendments to be made in them hereafter, 
other departmental orders, Service Minute 
of the Sri lanka technical Service published 
by in Gazette extra-ordinary Notification No. 
1930/12 dated 01
st September 2015 and the 
terms and conditions set out in the Scheme of 
Recruitment approved by the Public Service 
commission on 07.03.2017 and amended on 
20.03.2018 and any amendment to be made 
hereafter to the Scheme of Recruitment and 
Service Minute.
5.6 Selected candidates should serve in the Head 
Office of the Department of Labour located 
at Narahenpita, colombo 05.
6.0 Salary scale :
2.1 according to Schedule i of the Public 
administration circular No: 03/2016, the 
monthly salary scale relevant to this post is     
Rs. 31040 x 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 -10x 730-
10x750 -Rs. 57550.
2.2 allowance of the training grade as per Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016.
 first year – Rs. 27,140
 Second year – Rs. 27,440

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1484
7.0 Written examination :
 (a)  the written examination shall consist of two question papers. this examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English mediums and the candidates shall not be allowed to change the applied medium later.
Subject Duration Maximum marks Pass marks
l. intelligence test 01 1/2 hours 100 40
2. Subject related technical test 2 hours 100 40
(b) all candidates should sit for both question papers. all candidates should sit for the intelligence test and the 
subject related technological test shall vary according to the post for which the candidate has applied. The 
syllabus related to each post has been stated under paragraph 8.0.
(c) The number of candidates appointed and the effective date of appointment will be decided by the Commissioner 
General of labour.
(d) in the event of several candidates obtaining the same total marks, the decision shall be taken by the commissioner 
General of Labour in accordance with the instructions of Public Service Commission, which shall be final.
8.0 The syllabus for the written examination :
Name of the question paper Syllabus
1. intelligence test This paper consists of questions to judge the rationality, analytical skills and deci-
sion making power of the candidate.
2. Subject related technical test (a) Fingerprint Inspection Officer
i. History of fingerprint science.
ii. Pioneers of fingerprint science.
iii. fingerprint positioning and its characteristics.
iv. Importance of obtaining fingerprints.
v. fingerprint patterns.
vi. Obtaining fingerprints.
vii. Methods of confirming the identity of a person.
viii. Submission of reports having compared the thumb impressions in the 
documents.
ix. Method of comparing fingerprints using modern technology.
x. fingerprint patterns and characteristics of ridges.
xi. Classification of fingerprints
xii. Laws related to fingerprints
(b) Research assistant
i. Knowledge on taking environmental measurements, biological 
measurements and scientific measurements on labour.
ii. Knowledge on equipment used to take physical measurements of the 
work environment.
iii. Knowledge on chemical substances and their toxicology.
iv. Basic knowledge on vibration, heat, ionizing and non-ionizing 
radiation.
v. Identification of chemical substances through analytical methods.
vi. Knowledge on laboratory equipment.
V

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1485
Name of the question paper Syllabus
(c) Building Inspector, Technical Officer (Civil)
i. Knowledge on building construction and maintenance.
ii. t aking quantities and preparing estimates/ knowledge on taking 
measurements and levels.
(d) Technical Officer (Electrical)
i. Knowledge on electrical connections/ electrical circuits.
(e) draughtsman
i. Knowledge on planning and preparing estimates.
ii. drafting and understanding on drafting/ knowledge on construction 
technology.
9.0 General Interview.– General interview will be held only to scrutinize qualifications and marks will not be given.
** N.B. - Participating in the interview should not be deemed as a fulfillment of qualifications to be appointed to 
the post.
10.0 examination Fee: - the examination fee is Rs.500/=. the examination fee should be credited to a/c No: 
0071451995 of Bank of ceylon, Narahenpita Branch of the National institute of labour Studies and the bank slip obtained 
should be firmly affixed to the application.
(It may be useful to keep a photocopy of the bank slip)
Note - the examination fee, once paid will not be refunded for any reason what so ever unless 
the examination is cancelled. further, the fees paid for this examination cannot be 
transferred for any other examination.
11.0 Method of application :
11.1 applicants should prepare the application form according to the specimen application form appended at the 
end of this notification by themselves using both sides of 21 x29 c.m (A4) size paper in such a manner so that 
item numbers 1.0 - 8.0 appear on the first page, 9.0 - 11.1 appear on the second page, 11.2 - 12.0 appear on the 
third page, 13.0-16.0 appear on the fourth page and 17.0 appears on the fifth page.
11.2 the application form should be prepared in the language medium in which the applicant wishes to appear for 
the examination.
11.3 the application forms which do not conform to the specimen application form and which are incomplete will 
be rejected without any notification.
11.4 this examination will be held only at examination centers established within colombo on the 26
th of September 
2021.
11.5 Receipt of application forms will not be acknowledged. any complaint with regard to application forms 
which are lost in the Post will not be considered.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1486
11.6 issue of an admission card to an applicant 
shall not be considered as a fulfillment of the 
qualifications required for the post.
11.7 the term “open competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to the Post of .......... in the 
Supervisory Management assistant -technical 
Service category of the department of 
labour” should be clearly written on the top 
left-hand corner of the envelope in which the 
application is enclosed. (Please write the post 
which you wish to apply for in the blank).
11.8 the signature of the applicant in the 
application form should have been attested 
by the Principal of a Public School, a justice 
of the Peace, a Notary-Public, an authorized 
officer of the Tri-Forces, an Officer of the 
Police Service bearing a gazetted position 
or an officer holding a tertiary or senior 
permanent post of the public service as per 
gradings of Public administration circular 
No. 06/2016.
11.9 The final decision on filling, not filling or 
filling part of the vacancies and all other 
matters shall be taken by the commissioner 
General of labour.
12.0 Forwarding of application forms.– completed 
application forms should be sent under registered post to 
reach the below mentioned address on or before 13.08.2021.
director General
National institute of labour Studies,
Second floor,
labour Secretariat,
colombo 05.
13.0 Appearing for the examination
(a) the director General of the National institute 
of labour Studies will issue admission 
cards to all applicants who have forwarded 
applications which are complete in every 
aspect, one week prior to 26.09.2021, the date 
of the examination. a candidate who does not 
produce his/ her admission card will not be 
permitted to sit for the examination.
(b) a  candidate should sit for the examination at 
his/ her respective examination hall under the 
relevant index number. Every candidate who 
sits for the examination should hand over the 
admission card with their signature attested 
to the chief Examiner on the day of the 
examination.
(c) if the application is not received one week prior 
to 26.09.2021, the date of the examination,  
it should be informed to the director General, 
National institute of labour Studies through 
contact numbers 0112786541/0112786542.
lt will be more fruitful to inquire from the 
National institute of labour Studies with 
certified copies of your application, payment 
slip and the registered post receipt.
14.0 Identity of the Candidate.– candidates should 
prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the Chief Examiner for each subject they 
appear. the following documents will be accepted for this 
purpose.
(a) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons
(b) Valid Passport
(c) Valid driving license
15.0 Punishments for furnishing false information.– if 
a candidate is found to be unqualified to sit for the written 
examination, his/ her candidature is liable to be cancelled 
prior to the examination, while holding the examination 
or subsequent to the examination or at any time thereafter. 
further, if a candidate is found to have furnished any false 
information knowingly or has deliberately concealed any 
important information, he/ she shall be liable to be dismissal 
from service.
16.0 in the event of a discrepancy between the Sinhala, 
tamil and English versions of this Gazette Notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
commissioner General of labour.
department of labour, 
colombo -05,
29th june, 2021.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1487
Specimen Application form
(For office use only)
open competitive examination for recruitment to the post of supervisory management assistant - technical 
service category of the department of labour- 2021
01. language medium in which you sit for the examination:
 Sinhala  - 1 
 t amil  - 2  (Write the relevant number in the box)
 English  - 3 
 (Application form should be filled in the language medium in which you wish to sit for the examination)
02.  2.1.  Name with initials at the end of the name:  ................................................................................................................
   (in English capital letters) Eg: (SilVa a.B.d.P.a)
  2.2. Name in full (in English capital letters): .................................................................................................................
    ....................................................................................................................................................................................
  2.3. Name in full (in Sinhala / tamil): .............................................................................................................................
    ....................................................................................................................................................................................
03.  3.1. Permanent address: ....................................................................................................................................................
    ....................................................................................................................................................................................
   (in English capital letters) (admission card will be posted to this address)
  3.2. Permanent address: (in Sinhala /tamil) : ..................................................................................................................
    ....................................................................................................................................................................................
04. Gender : (Male -0, female -1)                        (Write the relevant number in the box)
05. Nic No. : 
06. civil Status: (unmarried - 1, Married -2)               Write the relevant number in the box
07. 7.1.   date of Birth :          year :                                  Month :                         date :
 7.2.  age as at 13.08.2021 :  years  :                          Months :                     days :
   (the closing date of application)
08. t elephone Number :
09. the post applied for (Put mark P in the relevent cage) :
Number Post
1 Fingerprint Inspection Officer
2 Research assistant
3 Building inspector
4 draughtsman
5 Technical Officer ( Civil)
6 Technical Officer (Electrical)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1488
10. Grade applied for according to paragraph 3.0 of the Gazette Notification. (Put P in the relevent cage) :
1 training Grade (two years training period)
2 training Grade (one year training period)
3 Grade iii (direct recruitment)
11. Educational qualifications:
  11.1  G.c.E. (o/l) Examination: (first attempt)
   (i) year & month of the examination: ...................................................................................................................
   (ii) index number:................................................................................................................................................... 
 (iii) Results:
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
  11.2  G.c.E. (o/l) Examination: (Second attempt)
   (i) year & month of the examination: ...................................................................................................................
   (ii) index number:................................................................................................................................................... 
 (iii) Results:
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
  11.3 G.c.E. (a/l) Examination
   (i) year & month of the examination: ...................................................................................................................
   (ii) index number:................................................................................................................................................... 
 (iii) Results:
Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
12. Professional Qualifications:
The course followed
Certificate awarding
Institution
Duration of the 
course
Certificate Number
and valid date

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2021
1489
13. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for a criminal offence ? : ......................................................................
 if so, please state particulars:  .............................................................................................................................................. 
 
14. Have you previously been in Public Service and been terminated ? ..................................................................................
 if so, please state the details and reason for termination: ..................................................................................................
 
15. Payment of examination fee:-
  15.1 amount paid: ..............................................................................................................................................................
  15.2 Bank branch to which the examination fee was paid: ................................................................................................
  15.3 date of payment: ........................................................................................................................................................
Paste the bank slip here firmly by one order of it.
(Keeping a photocopy of the bank slip will be useful)
16. Certificate of the Applicant:
I.............................. , do here by declare that I am qualified to sit for the Open Competitive Examination as per all 
the rules and regulations stated in the Gazette Notification and that the information given in this application form are true to 
the best of my knowledge. further, i agree to act according to the rules & regulations governing the examination and agree 
to the cancellation of my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, without the payment of any compensation 
whatsoever, if it is found that i am ineligible as per the Scheme of Recruitment which includes the Provisions of this 
examination. Moreover, I declare that I shall be subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General 
of labour in respect of the conduct of the examination and issue of results and also agree to perform the duties in any part 
of the island, if i am selected to this post.
date :.......................... ..................................................,
 Signature of the applicant.
17. attestation of the signature of the applicant (should be as per paragraph 11.8 of the Gazette Notification) :
i hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss ........................................................................................................... (full name of the 
applicant) who submits this application form is known to me personally and that he/ she has paid the prescribed examination 
fee and has affixed the relevant bank slip herein.The applicant placed his/ her signature before me on ........................
date :.......................... ..................................................,
 (Signature of the officer attesting the signature)
Full name of the officer attesting the signature : 
designation :..........................
address :..........................
(Should be certified by placing the official stamp)
07–120
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  laNKa.