

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
595
595
wxl 1"551 _ 2008 uehs 23 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'05'23
No. 1,551 – FRIDAY , MAY 23, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 598
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 605
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th May, 2008, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 16th May, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.— (i) National Housing Development Authority (Special Provisions) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of 07th  March, 2008
(ii) Adam’s Peak Kalpawruksha Development Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II
of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of 07th  March, 2008.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
596
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
597
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
598
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
Recruitment of Students (Female) for School Dental
Therapists Training in Para Medical Services
APPLICATIONS are invited from the female Citizens of Sri Lanka
for recruitment to the training of School Dental Therapists of the
Para Medical Services in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
01. Selection to the training will be made based on a priority list
prepared in accordance with the Z-score marks of the G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination from 2003 to 2006 in Science stream.
02.  Applicants who failed to submit applications perfectly in
terms of Gazette Notification  dated 28.12.2007 earlier, also can
apply for this training.
2.1 The relevant districts and the vacancies available are as
follows:
District Number of
Vacancies
Gampaha 20
Kalutara 13
Kandy 04
Matale 03
Nuwara Eliya 03
Galle/Matara/Hambantota 15
Puttlam 03
Anuradhapura 10
Polonnaruwa 04
Jaffna 01
Mulativu 02
Mannar 01
Kilinochchi 02
Kalmunai 05
Ampara 01
Batticaloa 02
Trincomalee 04
Badulla 09
Moneragala 08
Ratnapura 04
Kegalle 03
2.2 The selection of Applicants in terms of Gazette
Notification dated 28.12.2007 too will be made on the
above vacancies.
03. The students who attend to courses on 05 working days of
the week and forenoon on Saturdays should not apply since this
has been a full time course.
04. The period of training is 02 years.
05. Educational Qualifications:
5.1 G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects at not more
than two sittings inclusive of English Language and with
Credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics,
Science and one other subject.
5.2 G .C.E. (A/L) Examination from 2003 to 2006 minimum
of 03 subjects in the science stream in one sitting with a
Credit pass for Biology. It is compulsory that the
Z-score value should have been included in the
application.
06. Other Qualifications :
(a) Females with height over 04 feet 10 inches.
(b) Unmarried and remain unmarried during the period of
training.
(c) Age should be not less than 18 years and not more than
30 years as at 16.06.2008.
(d) Should  be prepared to serve in any part of the island.
(e) Should be physically fit and healthy.
(f) Should be a resident of 03 years within the district for
which they submit applications.
07. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared as per form of
application attached to this letter. Applicant should affix
stamps to the value of Rs. 500 on the “Stamps Cage” in
the application and cancel them by placing her signature.
(b) The signature of the Applicant should be attested by an
officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountants Service/Principal of a
Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law
or by a Government Officer drawing a salary not less
than Rs. 124,080 per annum.
(c) The applications perfected should be sent under registered
cover to reach the Director (Administration) 02, Ministry
of Healthcare and Nutrition, “Suwasiripaya”, 385, Ven.
Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10,
on or before 16.06.2008. The term “Recruitment of
Trainees to the Post of School Dental Therapist” should
be written on the left hand corner of the envelope enclosing
applications.
08. Applications will not be acknowledged.
09. Applications received after the due date will be rejected.
10. Application which do not conform the requirement of the
notice will be rejected.
11. Applicants who have fulfilled educational and other
qualifications above and submitted applications perfectly will be
called for interviews. The applicants should submit originals of the
following documents at the interview. The candidature of those
candidates who fail to submit originals of the relevant documents at
the interview will be cancelled.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
599
(a) Certificate of Birth.
(b) Originals of the educational certificates, and in the absence
of originals, the results sheet issued to external candidates
of the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the
Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for
the examination.
(c) Certificate issued by the Department of examinations
indicating the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination Z-score marks
level.
(d) National Identity Card/Passport/Driving License.
(e) Grama Seva Certificated counter signed by the Divisional
Secretary to confirm the status of unmarried.
(f) Certified copies of the V oters’ List from 2003 to 2006 to
confirm the residence of applicant within the district for
a period of 03 years. If the name of the applicant is not
available in the V oters’ List, her parents names should be
available and such applicants should submit the Grama
Seva Certificate counter signed by the Divisional Secretary
in addition to the certified copies of the V oters’ Lists.
12. Scheme of Training :
(i) Selected candidates will be admitted to the training school
of Maharagama for training. Candidates should follow
the courses in English Medium.
(ii) The Trainees will be subject to the rules and regulations
in force within the Training Schools and other regulations
enforced from time to time by the Department of Health.
(iii) The training of these Trainees who fail in the examinations
or whose work and conduct is unsatisfactory or who fail
to comply with the rules and conditions in their schools
of training during the period of training is liable to be
stopped at any time without payment of any
compensation.
(iv) Trainees will be paid an allowance of Rs. 6,000 p.m.
during the period of training in addition to the payment
of cost of living.
(v) The Trainees on admission to the Schools of Training
should enter into an agreement with the Director General
of Health Services to the effect that the Trainee shall
complete the training successfully without leaving the
same and if given an appointment after completion of
training shall serve the Department of Health Services for
a minimum of 10 years period. In the event she withdraws
from the training or leaves. The Training or has to be
discontinued from the training as per para © above during
the period of training, she shall refund to the Department
the expenditure incurred for the payment of allowances
and other expenses borne by the Government during the
period of her training. Otherwise, action will be taken to
recover such expenses incurred by the Department in
accordance with the agreement.
13. Terms of Engagement.— The Department is not bound to
grant permanent appointment at the end of the training. However,
the Trainees who succeed in the final examination will be given
appointments to the Class III of the relevant post, based on their
merits. It is compulsory they serve in their original station for 02
years  from the date of their first appointment.
14. When filling in application the educational and other
qualifications should be entered with due care. Provided that
certificates so furnished were proved to be false or incorrect after
recrtuitment for training or after giving appointments, action will
be taken to discontinue from the training or to dismiss from the
service and also to backlist their names which prevents them from
re-entering to the Government Service.
15. The selected candidates should undergo a medical
examination, to assure their physical fitness to serve in any part of
Sri Lanka and those who are proved unfit in the said medical
examination will become disqualify to continue with their training.
16. All the officer so recruited will be subject to the rules and
regulations applicable to the Public Servants and Provision of the
establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, policies enforced by the Department of Health Services,
Financial and other regulations and rules and regulations and orders
enacted from time to time by the Government.
17. The decision of the Secretary Health will be the final in
respect of any issue arose out of the recruitment to the training
which does not cover by this Gazette Notification.
Dr. H. A. P. K
AHANDALIYANAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
02nd May, 2008.
APPLICATION
R
ECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR SCHOOL DENTAL THERAPISTS TRAINING
IN THE PARA MEDICAL SERVICES
MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE AND NUTRITION
01. ( a) Name with initials (in block capitals) :————,
(b) Name in Full (in block capitals) :————,
02. Postal Address :————,
03. (i) Permanent Address :————,
(ii) District :————,
(iii) Are you a permanent Resident in the District ?
Yes/No :————,
(iv) If yes, how long ? :————,

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
600
04. Date of Birth :
Year :————, Month :————, Date :————.
Age as at 16.06.2008: Years :—–, Months :——, Days :——.
05. Male or Female :
(Mark “ /” in the relevant cage ) Male
Female
06. Height :        Feet :————, Inches :————.
07. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka : Y es
(Mark “ /” in the relevant cage) No
08. National Identity Card No. :————.
09. Marital Status :————.
10. Educational Qualifications :————.
(a) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level)
Examination :
(Science subject only) (Please attach copy of mark list ) :
Date of the Examination :
Year :———.   Index No. :————.  Z score :———.
Subject Grade
01.
02.
03.
04.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination :
First sitting :
Year :————. Index No. :————.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
Second sitting :
Year :————. Index No. :————.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
11. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge:
(Mark “    ” in the relevant cage) Y es
No
If “Yes” please furnish details :————.
12. Certificate of Applicant :
(a) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and
I am not undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false or incorrect. I am liable to be disqualified
before selection, and to dismissal without compensation if
the inaccuracy is discovered after the selection.
Stamp
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————,
13. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the Applicant Miss ................................
is personally known and she placed her signature in my presence
on this day of ......................................... 2008.
————,
Signaturer of the Attestor
with Official Seal.
Date :————.
Details of Attestor :
Full Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
05-358
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE   AND   NUTRITION
Recruitment  of  Students  for  Training  in the
Professions  Supplementary
to  Medicine  in  the  Ministry  of  Healthcare and
Nutrition - 2008
APPLICATIONS are invited from the eligible citizens of Sri Lanka
for recruitment to the training in the Professions Supplementary to
Medicine in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
01. The eligible persons will be selected based on a priority list
prepared on the Z- score marks of the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) Examination from 2001 to 2006. The
applicants will have the opportunity to select courses of their
preference based on the qualifications. Applicants who intend to
apply for more than one course should submit separate application
for each course.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
601
02. Selection will be made based on district population ratio
depending on the number of students to be recruited for training.
03. Since this is a full-time course, the students who attend to
other courses on 05 working days of the week and forenoon on
Saturday should not apply for this course.
04. The relevant courses and the period of training are given
below:
Code Course Period of
No. Training
01 Pharmacists 02 years
02 Medical Laboratory Technologists 02 years
03 Physiotherapists 02 years
04 Therapy Radiographers 02 years
05 Diagnostic Radiographers 02 years
05. Educational Qualifications :- It is compulsory that the
candidates should have passed 03 subjects at least in the Science
stream in one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination from 2001 to
2006 with a credit pass for the specified subject for each training
course. Qualifications required for each training course are as
follows:
Code T raining G . C. E. (A/L) G . C. E. (O/L)
No. Course Qualifications Qualifications
01 Pharmacists G . C. E. (A/L) G . C. E. (O/L)
02 Medical Examination with a Examination in six
Laboratory credit pass for subjects including
Technologists Chemistry and two English Language
of the following at not more than
subjects in one two sittings with
sitting Combined credit passes for
Maths, Physics, Sinhala/Tamil
Biology and Language,
Agricultural Science Mathematics,
Science and one
more subject.
03 Physiotherapists G . C. E. (A/L)
04 Therapy Examination with
Radiographers a credit pass for
05 Diagnostic
Physics and two
Radiographers of the following - do -
subjects in one
sitting Combined
Maths, Chemistry,
Biology and
Agricultural
Science.
06. Other Qualifications:
(a) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 30 years of
age as at 30.06.2008.
(b) Should agree to serve in any part of the island.
(c) Should be physically fit and healthy.
(d) Should be a resident for a period of 03 years within the
district from which the applicant submit his/her
application.
07. Method of Application:
(a) Applications should be prepared as per form of application
attached to this letter. Applicant should affix stamps to the
value of Rs. 500 on the “Stamps Cage” in the application
and cancel them by placing his/her signature.
(b) If applied for several posts, the applicant should submit
separate applications for each posts.
(c) The signature of the applicant should be attested by an
officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountants Service/Principal of a
Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-law
or by a Government Officer drawing a salary not less than
Rs. 124,080 per annum.
(d) The applications perfected should be sent under registered
cover to reach the Director (Administration) 02, Ministry
of Healthcare and Nutrition, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, V en.
Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10,
on or before 30.06.2008. The post applied for should be
written on the left hand corner of the envelope enclosing
applications.
08. Applications of those who are serving in government or
semi-government institutions should be sent through their Heads
of Department.
09. Applications will not be acknowledged.
10. Applications received after the due date will be rejected.
11. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of
the notice will be rejected.
12. Applicants, who have fulfilled educational and other
qualifications above, will be called for interviews. The applicants
should submit originals of the following documents at the interview.
The candidature of those candidates who fail to submit originals of
the relevant documents at the interview will be cancelled.
(a) Certificate of Birth;
(b) Originals of the educational certificates, and in the absence
of originals, the results sheet issued to external candidates
or the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the
Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for the
examination.
(c) Certificate issued by the Department of Examinations
indicating the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination marks level.
(d) National Identity Card/Passport/Driving Licence.
(e) Certified copies of the V oters Lists from 2001 to 2006 to
confirm the residence of applicant within the district for a
period of 03 years. If the name of the applicant is not
available in the V oters list, his/her parents names should be
available and such applicants should submit the Grama
Seva Certificate countersigned by the Divisional Secretary
in addition to the certified copies of the V oters Lists.
 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
602
13. Scheme of Training:
(i) Selected candidates will be admitted to the respective
training schools of the training courses in para 04 above.
Candidates should follow the courses in English medium.
(ii) The trainees will be subject to the rules and regulations in
force within the Training Schools and other regulations
enforced from time to time by the Department.
(iii) The training of those who fail in the examinations or whose
work and conduct proved to be is unsatisfactory or who
fail to comply with the conditions of examination and leave
in their schools of training during the period of training is
liable to be stopped at any time without payment of any
compensation.
(iv) Trainees will be paid an allowance of Rs. 6,000 during the
period of training.
(v) The trainees when entering into the Schools of Training
should enter into an agreement with the Director General
of Health Services to the effect that the trainee shall
complete the training successfully without leaving the same
and if given an appointment after completion of training
shall serve the Department of Health Services for a
minimum of 10 years period. In the event he/she withdraws
from the training or leaves the training or had to be
discontinued from the training as per Para (iii) above during
the period of training, he/she shall refund to the Department
the expenditure incurred for the payment of allowances
and other expenses borne by the Government during the
period of his/her training. Otherwise action will be taken to
recover such expenses incurred by the Department as
stipulated in the agreement.
14. Terms of Engagement .– The Department is not bound to
grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. However,
the trainees who succeed in the final examination will be given
appointments to the Class III of the relevant post, depending on
the vacancies available in any part of the island based on their
merits.
15. When filling in applications the educational and other
qualifications should be entered with due care. Provided that
certificates so furnished were proved to be false or incorrect after
recruitment for training or after giving appointments, action will be
taken to discontinue from the training or to dismiss from the service
and also to backlist their names and there by preventing them from
re-entering to the Government Service.
16. The selected candidates should undergo a medical
examination, to assure their physical and mental fitness to serve in
any part of Sri Lanka and those who are proved unfit in the said
medical examination will become disqualify to continue with their
training.
17. All the officers so recruited will be subject to the provisions
of the Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka, policies enforced by the Department of Health Services,
Financial and other regulations and rules and regulations and orders
enacted from time to time by the Government.
18. The decision of the Secretary Health will be the final in
respect of any issue arose out of the recruitment to the training
which does not cover by this  Gazette notification.
Dr. H. A. P. K
AHANDALIY ANAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
No. 385,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo - 10.
08th May, 2008.
Recruitment of Students for Training in the Professions
Supplementary
to Medicine in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition -
2008
Post of Trainee applied for ………………………
01. (a) Name with Initials (in block capitals):––––––.
(b) Name in full (in block capitals):––––––.
(c) Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil):––––––.
02. National Identity Card Number:
03. Postal Address: Sinhala/Tamil English
……………… ………………
……………… ………………
……………… ………………
……………… ………………
04. (i) Permanent Address: Sinhala/Tamil English
……………… ………………
……………… ………………
……………… ………………
……………… ………………
(ii) District:––––––.
(iii) Are you a permanent R esident in the District? Yes/No:––.
(iv) If yes, how long?:––––––.
05. Date of Birth:  Year:––––.      Month:––––.    Date:–––––.
Age as at 30.06.2008 years:––––.   Months:––––.  Days:–––.
06. Whether Male or Female:–––––. Male
(Mark “     ” in the relevant cage) Female
07. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka: Y es
(Mark “    ” in the relevant cage) No
08. Marital Status:––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
603
09. Educational Qualifications:––––––.
(a) G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination (Science subject
only) (please attache copy of mark list):
District from which you registered for Examination:–––.
Year:––––––.
Index No.:––––––.
Z Score:––––––.
Subject Grade
01.
02.
03.
04.
(b) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - First Sitting:
Year:––––––.
Index No.:––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - Second Sitting:
Year:––––––.
Index No.:––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
10. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge?
(Mark “     ” in the relevant cage) Y es
No
If “yes” please furnish details:––––––.
11. Certificate of Applicant:
(a) I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me
in this applicaton are true and accurate to my knowledge
and I am not undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be
disqualified before selection and to dismissal without
compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the
selection.
“Stamp Cage”
–––––––––,
Date:––––––. Signature of applicant.
13. Attestation:
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss
……………… is personally known to me and he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on this day of ………… 2008.
––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date:––––––.
Details of Attester:
Full Name:––––––.
Designation:––––––.
Address:––––––.
(With official seal.)
05-427
MINISTRY OF  PARLIAMENTARY  AFFAIRS
Post of Receptionist
APPLICATIONS are invited for the above post, now vacant in the
Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs. Applications should be prepared
on A4 size paper conforming to the specimen given in this notification,
and should be sent under registered cover addressed to the Secretary,
Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, No. 464B, Pannipitiya Road,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla, on or before 13th June, 2008. All applications,
not conforming to the specimen, and received after the due date will
be rejected. The words “Post of Receptionist” should be written on
the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
01. Title of the Post.– Post of Receptionist
02. Educational and other Qualifications.– Should have passed
the General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Examination in
not more than two sittings, in 06 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil
Language or Literature, Arithmetics/Commerce/Pure Maths/Basic
Maths and English with 04 Credit Passes. (Not less than five subjects
should be passed in one sitting);
or
Should have passed the General Certificate of Education Ordinary
Level Examination on not more than two sittings in 06 subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil language, Mathematics, English with 04
Credit Passes. (Not less than five subjects should be passed in one
sitting);
or
Should have passed the National Certificate of General Education
Examination 06 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, English with 04 A or B Passes. (Not less than five
subjects should be passed in one sitting) and should have the ability
to express the ideas in English Language and should have the capability
of understanding the language of the applicant, an applied knowledge
in respect of the said language shall be considered as a special
qualification.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
604
03. Professional Qualifications .– Should have two years
experience in a Government or reputed institution in the relevant
field. (Should be proved by furnishing relevant certificates)
04. Salary Scale.–
The monthly salary entitled to this post is Rs. 13,120-10x145-
11x170-10x240-10x320-Rs. 22,040. (According to the Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006 (iv) - segment MN 1-2006A)
05. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more
than 45 years as at the last date for the receipt of application. (The
maximum age limit will not apply to persons already in the public
service).
06. Conditions of Service –
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
should be made to the widows and orphans/widowers and
orphans pension scheme.
(ii) The provisions set out in the sections 10-12 of the chapter
11 of the Establishment Code are applicable.
(iii) Within the period of 05 years from the date of appointment,
the proficiency of official language should be acquired as
per the provisions of the Public Administration Circular
No. 7/2007.
07. Method of Recruitment .– The Applicant obtaining highest
marks on the results of a structured interview will be recruited.
08. Other Remarks .– Applicants employed in the Public/
Provincial Public Service should forward their application through
the respective Heads of Departments.
S
EETHA VITHANAARACHCHI,
Secretary,
Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs,
No. 464 B,
Pannipitiya Road,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs
Application for recruitment to the Post of Receptionist
01. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss.):–––––––––.
02. Name in full:–––––––––.
03. Permanent Address:–––––––––.
04. Postal Address:–––––––––.
05. Name of the Institution working at present:–––––––––.
Address:–––––––––.
Post held:–––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No.:–––––––––.
07. Sex:–––––––––.
08. (i) Date of Birth:
Year:                  Months:                   Date:
(ii) Age as at:
Years:                      Months:    Days:
09. Whether married or Single:–––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications:
G . C. E. (O/L) G . C. E. (A/L)
Year Subject Grade Year Su bject Grade
11. Other Qualifications:
i. –––––––––.
ii. –––––––––.
iii. –––––––––.
12. Experience in the field:
Institution:–––––––––. from:–––––––––. till:–––––––––.
13. Certificate of the Applicant:
I …………………… hereby certify that the particulars furnished
by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein
are found to be false or incorrect, I will be disqualified for attending
the interview and to dismissal without any compensation if the
inaccuracy is discovered after the selection.
–––––––––.
Signature of the Applicant.
Date:–––––––––.
14. Attestation of the Applicant’ s Signature :
The Applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………………… is a
trainee/casual/temporary/permanent officer, working in this
institution as a ………………………… and no disciplinary actions
have been taken against him/her and in the event of his/her been
selected for the above post, he/she can be released/cannot be released
from the service.
–––––––––.
Signature of the Head of the Department
(Official Seal)
Date:–––––––––.
Designation:–––––––––.
Ministry/Department/Institution:–––––––––.
05-438

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
605
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
SAMURDHI MANAGERS - 2006 (2008)
0.1 The first Efficiency bar Examination for Samurdhi Managers
of Sri Lanka Samurdhi Authority will be held by the Commissioner
of Examinations in August 2008 in Colombo.
0.2 This Efficiency bar Examination comprising the following
subjects includes two  question papers and 03 hours for each paper.
The total marks to be given to each paper is 100 and 40 is the
minimum pass marks. An officer is allowed to sit for the all subjects
at a time or in several sittings.
The first paper - Subject No.01 - Economic development,
Commerce and Banking activities.
i. Economic Development
ii. Commerce and Banking activities
The Second paper - Subject No.02 - Establishment Code,
Financial regulations and Office System
i Office System
(The importance of Office system, principles, Handling
of incoming and outgoing letters, Initiating in the files,
Understanding matters related public relations.
ii. Establishment Code - (I, II, III, IV , VII, XII, XIV , XV, XXV)
Financial Regulations (I, II, II, XIII)
3.0 This examination will be conducted only in Sinhala and
Tamil mediums. Specimen application form is published at the end
of this notification. The candidates should prepare their applications
as per the specimen application form and they should be prepared
on A4 sized papers. The application should be filled in the medium
they appear for the examination. They will not be allowed to change
their medium. From item No. 01 to item No.06 of the application
should be in the first page and  the rest should to be carried on to the
second page. It should filled clearly by their own handwriting. The
applications not confirming with the specimen application form
and incomplete will be rejected without any intimation. It will be
useful to keep the photocopy of the relevant application. When
preparing the applications in Sinhala, in addition to Sinhala, the
title of the examination should be indicated in English and when
preparing the applications in Tamil in addition to Tamil, the title of
the examination should be indicated in English too.
4.0 The applications should sent under registered cover to reach
the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and
Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examination in
Sri Lanka, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, on or before 04th July 2008,
Through their Heads of respective Departments (if you have been
attached to a District Secretariat or Divisional Secretariat the
applications should be sent through the District Secretary/Divisional
Secretary) The name of the examination applying for should be
clearly written on the top left hand corner of  the envelope.
The applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Application may be prepared either in official language or in the
medium they were recruited to the public service.
5.0 In case any candidate does not receive her/his admission at
least seven days prior to the date of examination, it should be
notified immediately to the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations in Sri Lanka, Pelawatta, Battaramulla,
with the following information. The telegrams should be sent to
“Examinations, Battaramulla”
Immediately after the  admissions are issued for the applicants,
it will be notified in the press by the department of Examinations.
if you do not receive the admission  within 02 or 03 days of the
advertisement, it should be informed to the Department of
Examination of Sri Lanka, As indicated in the advertisement. It will
be more effective, if you can send your letter of request to the
Department of Examinations along with the certified copies of
your application and the receipt of the payment, The registration
receipt and the fax number to which we can send your application
if you in residing outside Colombo.
Name of the Examination :
Full name of the applicant
Address of the applicant
The Post office from which the application was posted
Registered number and the date
6.0 The candidates will be require to prove their identity in
respect of each subject in the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor. For this purpose any of the following documents
will be accepted.
i. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for
Registration of Persons
ii. A valid Passport
7.0 All candidates are bound abide by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations. Candidates
who violates any of those rules and regulations is liable to any
punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner of the
Examinations.
8.0 Admission cards will be issued to all candidates by the
Commissioner General of Examinations and the respective Heads
of their Institutions should grant them duty leave.
9.0 Any matter whatsoever not provided for in these regulations
shall be deal with at the discretion of Director General of Samurdhi
Authority.
R. P. B. T
HILAKASIRI,
Director General,
Samurdhi Authority of Sri Lanka,
04th Floor, Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2008
606
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Samurdhi Managers -
2006 (2008)
The medium of the Examination
(Sinhala - 2 Tamil - 3) For office use only
(The relevant number should be written in the cage)
1.0 Name :———.
1.1 Name with the initials and the initials at the end :———.
(In English block capitals) (Ex. SILV A, A. B.) :———.
1.2 Full Name :———.
(In English block capitals) :———.
1.3 Full Name :———.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Permanent Address :———.
(In English block capitals)
2.1 Permanent Address :———.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.2 Official Address :———.
(In English block capitals) (The admissions will be posted
to this address)
3.0 Sex : (Female - 1 Male- 0)
4.0 Whether Married or Single: (Single -1 Married - 2)
5.0 National Identity Card No. :
6.0 Date of Birth :———.
Year:                             Month:                 Date:
7.0 Age as at the closing date of the application :———.
Years:              Months:                Days:
8.0 Post and Grade  :———.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct,
And that I am entitle to sit for the examination in the language
medium applied for. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations of the examination as determined by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
—–––––——.
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :———.
Commissioner General of Examinations Forwarded.
I hereby certify that the above candidate is eligible to sit for this
examination and that she/he is eligible to appear in the language
medium indicated by her/him.
—–––––——.
Signature of the head of the Department
Designation and the Official Frank.
Date :———.
05-369
PRINTED A T THE DEPA TMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.