

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1761$8 - 2012 cqks 07 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2012'06'07
No. 1761 /8   -  THURSDAY ,  JUNE  07,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
WESTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Western  Province  Mineral  Tax  Statute, No. 02 of 2012
I, Prasanna Ranathunga, Chief  Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Land, Education, Local
Government, Provincial Administration, Manpower and Employment, Economic Promotion, Power and Energy of the Western
Province Provincial Council, here by declare that Mineral Tax Statute, No. 02 of 2012 Western Provincial Council, do by this
order with effect from 10.05.2012 as Assent by the Honorable Governor of Western Province.
P
RASANNA RANATHUNGA,
Chief  Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning,
 Law and Order, Land, Education, Local Government,
 Provincial Administration, Manpower and Employment,
 Economic Promotion, Power and Energy of the
 Western Province Provincial Council.
Chief Minister Office,
Shrawasthi Mandiraya,
Colombo 07,
01st June, 2012.
Western Province Mineral Tax Statute, No. 02 of 2012
A statute to allocate provisions with regard to matters pertaining to levying ; within certain
constrictions prescribed by the laws enacted by the parliament and subjected to certain exemptions, taxes
for mineral rights located within the Western Province and charging of such taxes as well as matters related
or consequential thereto.
Be it enacted by the Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka as follows :–
01. This statute shall be cited as the Western Province Mineral Tax Statute No. 02 of 2012 and it
will be put into effect from the date assent of the Governor.
Short title and
the date of anact
ment.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2012
2A
Section I
Levying the Mineral Tax
02. Under the license issued under Mines and Mineral Act No. 33 of 1992, from every person
carrying out business within the province on behalf of rights pertaining to mining or removal of minerals
from a land located within the province, a tax (hereinafter called as Mineral Tax) valuated accoording to the
ratio stated in the schedule of this statute on the turnover received by the said person from the said
business shall be levied subjected to certain limitations and exemptions prescrided under laws enacted by
the parliament and subjected to provisions of this statute from the quarter to which the date of enactment
of this statute belongs and every quarter commencing there onwards.
03. (1) For the purposes of this statute, ‘‘Business’’ means sales carried out either as wholesale
or retail of minerals obtained as a result of implementation of the rights pertaining to mining and removal of
minerals.
(2) With regard to a business carried out by certain person within the province, the Mineral
Tax per each quarter shall be charged from that person.
(3) In a situation where the Mineral Tax is required to be charged from a certain person on
behalf of business carried out by such person and when the ownership of such business has been
transferred, notwithstanding the provisions stated in Sub-section (1), Mineral Tax shall be levied on the
new owner considering that such new owner has been functioning as the owner of said business even
prior to such transfer.
Section II
Exemptions
04. (1) Certain business or certain specifically stated business carried out by certain person can
be exempted from the Mineral Tax by an order published in the Gazette paper by the minister in instances
essentially required for the economic progress of the povince.
(2) Every order issued under Sub-Section (1) shall be put into effect either from the date it
was published in the Gazette paper or on a subsequent date as specified by that order and in case if a
Provincial Council Meeting is not convened within a period of 3 months from the date of the publication of
said order in the Gazette paper, at the first Council Meeting of the Provincial Council to be held subsequent
to such period, such order shall be presented to the Provincial Council by way of motion requesting
adoption of the said motion by the Provincial Council.
(3) Certain order rejected to be adopted by the Provincial Council, until the date of its
rejection shall be considered as revoked without harm to its validity from the date of such rejection, and if
the said motin is considered to be revoked from such date onwards, that date shall be published in the
Gazette paper.
Section III
Turnover
05. For the purposes of this statute
01. In relation to either wholesale or retail trade, by the word ‘‘turnover’’ ; the due amount of
money from every transaction carried out while conducting that business, notwithstanding whether such
amount was actually received or not is meant.
(a) Subsequent to deducting the following mentioned amount :–
(1) Total amount received subsequent to removal of certain capital asset which has
       been included in that amount ; and
(2) If certain amount, which has been included in the turnover of that business at a
      previous quarter in relation to which the Mineral Tax has been paid, has become
      confirmed as bad debts within the relevant quarter, including that amount, and
Enactment of
the Mineral Tax
On which
occasion should
certain person
pay the Mineral
Tax
Turnover

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2012
(b) Subsequent to adding up of certain amount of money received within the relevant
quarter on behalf of a bad debt which has either been written off or approved to be
written off at a previous quarter, that amount ; is meant.
Section IV
Reports
06. (1) By every person conducting certain business within the province, at the termination of
each quarter shall present to the Commissioner before a lapse of 15 days subsequent to the termination of
that quarter, a report which indicates the turnover of the relevant business within that quarter. Every such
report shall be in the prescribed format and all the details required by such format shall be included therein.
(2) By a written notice sent to a person to whom the Mineral Tax can be levied as per the
judgement of an assessor, that person can be ordered to produce a report including necessary details
within the period of time specified in that notice.
(3) By a written notice sent by an assessor for the purpose of obtaining complete details
pertaining to the turnover of a business carried out by a certain person, it can be ordered :
(a) to produce and serve to the assessor certain books, accounts, trade lists,
documents, vouchers, cheques, paying - in slips, audit reports, computer reports stated in that notice or
other documents in the possession of the relevant person as mentioned by that notice within the time
period specified in that notice.
(b) to make the presence of the said person or his authorized representative at a
certain place at a certain date and time stated therein for the purpose of inspecting the turnover in relation
to that business.
Section V
Tax Payments
07. (1) The Mineral Tax relevant to a certain quarter shall be paid prior to the termination of the
15th day of the month following immediate to the relevant quarter. Certain tax unpaid as per afore stated
regulations shall be considered as a defaulted tax. At the moment the relevant liability arose if that tax
requires to be paid by certain person, by that person or ; when certain tax is to be paid by persons more
than one in number, by one person or each of those persons or ; when certain tax is to be paid by a business
partnership, by the chief partner or each partner of the business partnership or ; when certain tax is to be
paid by certain incorporated corporation, by that corporation or persons holding director posts or persons
who held director posts of that corporation, together or separately shall be considered as defaulters, for
the purposes of this statute.
08. (1)  In an instance where certain Mineral Tax payment is defaulted ;
(a) an amount equal to ten percent of the amount defaulted ; and
(b) if certain defaulted amount has commenced to be defaulted from certain month and
which has not been paid prior to 15th day of the month following immediately, in such
an instance, on behalf of each time period ending at the 15th of each month or of a part
thereof of such time peroid of defaulting, an additional amount equal to two percent
from the total amount defaulted.
Shall be paid as penalty by such defaulter in addition to the said tax amount.
However, the total amount payable as penalty under this Sub-section shall not a anytime
exceed fifty percent of the tax amount defaulted on and if the Commissioner is satisfied that it is reasonable
and justifiable to write off or deduct such defaulted amount on certain specific reasons, such an amount of
money can be written off or deducted.
Reports and
information.
Tax payments.
Penalty for
defaulting.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2012
4A
Section VI
Provisions of certain chapters of the Finance Statute to be relevant
09. Provisions of Sub-sections 10(4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10) of Chapter V in Western Province
Finance Statute No. 06 of 1990, also, provisions of Chapters VII, VIII, IX, XXIII, XXIV, XXV , XXVI, XXVII,
XXXII, XXXIII and provisions of reports, estimations, finality of estimates and penalty for inaccurate
reports, special situations, penalties and offences, general matters, appealing, appeals to the Review
Committee, appeals to the Court of Appeal, charging the tax, general matters, implementation, interpretation
shall, under this statute, be relevant respectively in relation to reports, estimations, finality of estimates
and penalty for inaccurate reports, special situations, penalties and offences, general matters, appealing,
appeals to the Review Committee, appeals to the Court of Appeal, charging the tax, general matters,
implementation and interpretation respectively.
Section VII
Interpretation
10. Unless other definition is required, under this statute ;
The Minister of the Provincial Board of Ministers under whose purview the subject of
Finance functions is meant by the term ‘‘Minister’’;
The license issued under Mines and Mineral Act No. 33 of 1992 is meant by ‘‘license’’;
The period of three months commencing from the first days of the months of January, April,
July and October of a certain year is meant by ‘‘quarter’’;
also, in relation to the date of enactment of this statute, in a certain quarter that includes
such date of enactment and from that date onwards till the final day of the month, by which the said quarter
ends, is meant by the term ‘‘quarter’’;
A naturally created mineral that can be mined from the surface or underneath in the form of
solid, liquid or gas, any ore containing such mineral, or any product of such mineral obtained after processing
is meant as ‘‘minerals’’ and timber residue and salts too are included in it, however, it does not include
hydro-carbons ;
Any mining carried out on the surface or underneath for the purpose of evaluation or
obtaining of any mineral is meant by ‘‘mining’’.
11. Should any incongruity between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this statute arise, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
[Schedule Sub - section 3(1)]
On the value of gross turnover of minerals mined on behalf of the rights of mineral mining and
removal within the province in the event of implementing of those rights.
06–729
Certain
provisions of the
Western
Provincial
Financial Statute
No. 6 of 1990 to
be relevant.
Interpretation.
Sinhala text to
prevail in
instances of
incongruity.
Tax ratio to be
0.5 percent.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.