

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
575
575
wxl 1"649 - 2010 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'04'09
No. 1,649 – FRIDAY , APRIL 09, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 578
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 579
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th April, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st April,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II of the Gazette No. 1,648 of 01.04.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
576
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
577
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
578
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURAYA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 14th May, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
24th March, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post Address to which
Secretary’s for which applications should
Division applications are called be sent
Anuradhapuraya Nuwaragam Palatha Post of Registrar of  Births and Deaths District Secretary/Addi.
Central of Nuwaragam Korale North Division and Registrar General,
Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/General) District Secretariat,
of Nuwaragam Palatha Division Anuradhapuraya
04-359
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars  of Muslim Marriages
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages, in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
579
03. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 07th May, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
09th March, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post Address to which
Secretary’s for which applications should
Division applications are called be sent
Puttalam Mundel Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in District Secretary/Addi.
Kanamulla Area of Puttalam Pattu Division Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Puttalam
04-203
NATIONAL  INSTITUTE  OF  SOCIAL  DEVELOPMENT
(Ministry of Social Services and Social Welfare)
Bachelor of Social Work Degree Programme  - 2010
(Sri Lanka School of Social Work)
(Academic  Year - 2010)
THE National Institute of Social Development (NISD) Functioning under the purview of the Ministry  of Social Services and Socia l
Welfare conducts the Bachelor of Social Work Degree Programme. The medium of instruction is English.
The NISD is recognized by the University Grants Commission as Degree Awarding Institute under Section 25A, of the
University Act, No.16 of 1978.
Applications are invited for the Bachelors Degree Programme in Social Work from eligible candidates who have obtained the
minimum requirements for University Admissions on the basis of the Z-score obtained at the GCE A/L Examination of 2009.
Candidates will be selected on the basis of a Proficiency Test conducted in English and an interview.
Why should you select this course? .– There is a great demand for professional social workers locally and  internationally and
plenty of job opportunities are available in the Government, Non-Government and Private Sector.
Why should you select the National Institute of Social Development ? .– National Institute of Social Development, established
under the Parliament Act, No.41 of 1992 is the only higher educational institution providing  professional social work educatio n and
training in Sri Lanka.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
580
How to Apply ?.– Applications, duly completed according to the following  format should reach our office (address given) on or
before 30.04.2010 alone with a money order Rs.400 drawn in favour of the Director General, National Institute of Social Develop ment.
“The Registrar,
National Institute of Social Development,
488 A, Nawala Road,
Rajagiriya,
Contact : 011-2882506 - 11
011-3119597 for details”.
Write "BSW 2010" on the top left-hand corner of the envelop.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
A
PPLICATION FOR THE BACHELOR OF SOCIAL WORK DEGREE PROGRAMME - (2010-2014)
1. Full Name :––––––––––.
2. Name with Initials :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
3. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
4. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
5. Contact Tel. No. :––––––––––.
6. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G. C. E. (O/L) :
Index No. :––––––––––.   Year :––––––––––.
Results :––––––––––.
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L 2009) :
Index No. :––––––––––.   Z Score :––––––––––.
Results :––––––––––.
District :––––––––––.
(iii) Highest Qualifications/Examination in English (If any) :––––––––––.
(iv) Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
Copies of the result sheets of the GCE (O/L) and GCE (A/L) examinations should be forwarded along with the application.
I certify that the information furnished by me is true and accurate. I am aware that my student-ship can be cancelled, even after
the selections, if the particulars are found to be incorrect.
–––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––. Signature.
The Registrar,
National Institute of Social Development.
20th March, 2010.
04-265/1
NATIONAL  INSTITUTE  OF  SOCIAL  DEVELOPMENT
(Ministry of Social Services and Social Welfare)
Bachelor of Social Work Degree Programme - 2010
(Admission to the Second year by Diploma in Social Work Certificate Holders)
THE National Institute of Social Development is inviting applications from the Diploma in Social Work Certificate holders to be admitted
to the second year of the Bachelor of Social Work Degree Programme.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
581
Eligibility to apply :
1. A candidate should have obtained the Diploma in Social Work from the Sri Lanka School of Social Work/National
Institute of Social Development.
2. Schould have high proficiency in English to follow the course conducted in the English medium
3. Should be able to study full - time for three years.
How to Apply :
1. Self prepared application in English Including Full Name, Address, District, Contact No., Educational Qualifications,
year of the Diploma, Highest Educational Qualifications obtained in English Language should be forwarded to the
Registrar, National Institute of Social Development, 488A, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya on or before 30.04.2010.
2. An Application processing  charge by a money order for Rs.400 en-cashable at the Rajagiriya Post Office, written in
favour of Director General of the National Institute of Social Development should be forwarded along with the
application "Admission to the Social Work Degree Second Year" should be mentioned at the left corner of the envelop
of the application.
Only a very limited number of applicants will be selected.
For Further information contact, 011-2882506 - 11/011-3119597
Registrar,
National Institute of Social Development.
20th March, 2010.
04-265/2
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATIONS  AND  SECOND  LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR
THE   SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE  -  2010
EFFICIENCY Bar Examination and Second Language Test for Officers of the above Service will be held in Colombo in July 2010.
02. Time Tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the both Efficiency Bar Examination at the same time.
03. Syllabus :
Service Efficiency Bar Examinations Date and Appendix
Number of the relevant to the
Gazette Notification Syllabus
Sri Lanka Accountants 1st Efficiency Bar 1194/26 'B'
Service Examination 27.07.2001
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination - Do - ‘C’
2nd Language Test - Do - ‘E’
Officers are allowed to sit for the Efficiency Bar Subjects in one sitting or in a number of separate sittings. However it is
necessary to pass E. B. Examinations within the prescribed period.
Action will be taken to hold the Oral Tests for the officers who are sitting the Second Language Examination at one centre.
04. (a) Subjects for the Efficiency Bar Examinations of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service are as follows :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
582
Sri  Lanka Accountants’ Service
1st  Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Time
No. Hours
30 Government Financial Procedures 3
31 Law and Management 3
32 Administration 3
33 Reports writing and presenting information to Management 3
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Time
No. Hours
36 Management Accountancy 3
37 Public Financial Management 3
38 Management and Organization 3
Second Language Test
Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours
9 Sinhala (Written) 2
10 Tamil (Written) 2
11 English (Written) 2
12 Sinhala (Oral)
13 Tamil (Oral)
14 English (Oral)
04 (b)  Names of Examination
Service Names of Examinations
Sri Lanka Accountants' Service First Efficiency Bar Examination (01)
Sri Lanka Accountants' Service Second Efficiency Bar Examination (02)
Sri Lanka Accountants' Service Second Language Examination (03)
05. Exemption from passing the Efficiency Bar Examination
Sri Lanka Accountants Subject Qualifications required for exemption
Service
Second Efficiency Bar 36 - Management Diploma in Public Finance Management conducted by the Sri Lanka
Examination Accountancy Institute of Development Administration;
37 - Public Financial
Management or
38 - Management and Higher Diploma in  computer programming conducted by the
Organization National Institute of Business Management Institution;
or
Post-graduate Diploma/Masters/Ph.D in the fields of  Accountancy,
Commerce, Management Public Administration, Business
Administration Computer Science;
or
Final examination of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
Chartered Institute of Management Accountancy, Chartered
Association of Certified  Accountants, British Computer Society,
Australian Computer Association ; or
Any other equivalent qualification recognized by the Board.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
583
6. The commissioner General of Examinations will make the necessary arrangements to enable the candidates to appear for the
examination in Sinhala, Tamil or English Media subjects other than the papers relating to Languages.
7. If it is revealed later that any candidate has appeared for the examinaton in a media for which he is not entitled to, his candidature
will be cancelled. The medium applied for will not be allowed to be changed later.
8. In the preparation of the application, the name of the examinatin given at the top should be written in English in addition t o
Sinhala in Sinhala applications an in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications.
9. Application should be prepared in terms of the specimen given in this notification so that details from 1-7 should be in the 1st
Page. Application should be filled clearly in own handwriting . Application which do not coform to the specimen application and
incomplete application will be rejected without notice. It will be advisable to keep a Photostat copy of the application forwarded
to the Department of Examination as it will be helpful when making inquiries regarding admission cards.
10. Application should be sent through the Head of Department by registered post to the following address to reach on or before 07th
May, 2010. Application received after the above date will be rejected.
Commissioner General of Examintation,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta - Battaramulla.
11. Immediately after admission cards are issued to the applicants The Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will published a
press notice to that effect. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of publication of the notice, it shou ld be
notified to The Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka as specified in the notice. The letter of inquiry to the Department
Examinations should accompany a certified copy of the application from retained by the applicant registered post receipt and a
fax number, in case the applicant is residing outside Colombo.
12. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to comply with the requirements as laid down in paragraph (11) above will
not be entertained.
13. Attention of all candidates will be drawn to the Circular No. SE 274 of 29th June,1971 issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding submitting identity Cards. It is the responsibility of the candidates to submit evidence regarding their
identity at the Examination Hall, only through the following identity cards.
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii) V alid Passport.
In addition candidates are bound by any other rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
regarding the examination.
14. Examination fees are given below :
(a) No fee will be charge for the first sitting (for the whole examination or part of it) :
(b) For each subsequent sitting :
For the complete Examination or part of it. Rs. 115.00
For one Subject Rs. 75.00
(Please treat oral test as a subject)
Examination fees have to be paid by revenue stamps having cancelled them by the candidate’s signature.
U
DAYA RANJITH SENEVIRA TNE,
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.
General Treasury,
Colombo 01.
26th March, 2010.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
584
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE
Appendix "B"
First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service.
(a) The First Efficiency Bar Examination consists of 4 question papers of 3 hours in the following subjects:
(1) Government Financial Procedure ;
(2) Law and Management ;
(3) Administration ;
(4) Report writing and Presenting Information to Management.
(b) For the subjects in First Efficiency Bar Examination the officer, if he so desires, can sit in one sitting or on separate
occasions.
(c) For a pass, the candidates have to score 40% of marks in each subject.
SYLLABUS :-
(1) Subject No. 30 - Government Financial Procedures— Use of Financial Regulations and Treasury Circulars for Government
transactions, financial regulations/procedures as they relate to revenue, expenditure, foreign aid, annual and additional
estimates, public debt,supply tenders, imprests and advances, sanctions, accounting functions of the Island, and economic
classifications, programmes and Performance budget, functions of the Minister of Finance, General Treasury, Ministry
of Policy Planning and Implementation, Secretaries, Auditor General and Government Financial Regulations and Treasury
Circulars are used for Public Accounts Committee and Auditor General will be tested.
(2) Subject No. 31 - Law and Management :
Law:
Definition of Law,
Legal systems in Sri Lanka,
Court system in Sri lanka,
Law of Contracts,
Law of agency,
Sale of goods,
Purchase on Hire purchase System,
Negotiable instruments,
Guarantee of Security,
Insurance.
Management :
Introduction to management,
Functions and skills of managers,
Planning process and setting organizational levels,
Organizations Structure,
Human resources,
Performance evaluation,
Promotion,
Motivation,
Leadership,
Communication,
Decision making,
Conflict Resolution,
Management of change,
Managing conflicts,
Managing time,
Quality circles and productivity,
Management ethics and responsibility.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
585
(3) Subject No. 32 -  Administration:- Knowledge of applicants is expected on provisions in Parts No. I and II of the
Establishment Code.
(4) Subject No. 33 -Report Writing and Presenting Information to Management - Importance of timeliness and accuracy
and completeness in management information ;
Dealing with reference materials,
Periodic and ad-hoc reports,
Writing minutes and reports of meetings,
Structure of Management reports,
Significant results to be highlighted,
Interpretation of results,
Suggestions to variations,
Use of statistical methods in analyzing data,
Performance comparison,
Use of ratios and percentages in management reports,
Diagrammatic representations,
Listening to professional talks and lectures,
Reporting lectures in speech,
Panel discussions,
Seminar skills,
Delivering a speech,
Appendix "C"
(b) Syllabus of the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of  Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service consists of the following
subjects:-
(1) Management Accountancy ;
(2) Public Financial Management ;
(3) Management and Organization.
Officers can if they so desire sit all the specified subjects in one sitting or each subject separately.
Candidates have to obtain 40% of marks from each subject for a pass.
Syllabus
(1) Subject No. 36 - Management Accountancy :  A paper of 3 hour duration.
Management Accountancy :  A paper of 3 hours.
Syllabus :  Control theory in accounting feed back, open and closed loop systems. basic and applied ideals, types of
standard costs, Principles and practice of setting performance standards and value standards revision of standards,
consideration of learning curve and motivation. The analysis of variances and sub-variances, presentation of their
importance and investigation, behavioral aspects of control accounting. The budgeting concept, the administration of
budgetary control, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets, master and subsidiary budgets, budget centers,
management participation in the preparation of budgets, involvement and motivation, The Budget period and
identification of the principal budget factor.
(2) Subject No. 37 -  Public Financial Management  : A paper of 3 hours duration. Choice of question papers will not be
allowed.
Role of Government Accountant  :  Constitutional and legal framework of public finance, Institutional framework,
Central Government, Government Corporation, Local Government Institutions, Co-operative Movement etc.
Parliamentary Control Functions of the General Treasury, Ministry of Planning, Estaimates Committee, Auditor General,
Public Accounts Committee, Consolidated Fund, Problems of Parliamentary Control.
The Financial Cycle,  Preparation of Planning Programmes, Programme Budgeting, Funding Authorization, Reporting,
Evaluation and Auditing of accounting.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
586
Project appraisal, application of shadow prices and statistical data, determination of pay off metric and expected value.
Cost benefit analysis, discounted cash flow, internal rate of return, ranking of projects, economic, financial and managerial
aspects of projects formulation and appraisal, effective project presentation.
Programming Techniques, applications of network - analysis assignment of resources, use of transport problem, or
replacement of assets that degenerate with use or passage of time and those which do not but fall after certain amount
of time, Performance budgets, installation and use of basic methods, measurement of performance, kind of measurement,
units systems of measurement and performance analysis.
Performance budgets, programme structure, Classification of functions, programme activities, projects and objects of
expenditure and economics and subject matter classification.
Financial control methods, Accountability, Internal control and Financial Regulations, Internal Audit, Efficiency Audit,
Management Audit, Variation Analysis, Decision on preparing capital budget, long term planning and its importance,
forecasting, accuracy and limits, risk analysis, decision trees, probable factors.
Demand for Capital, Capital Productivity and problems of estimating earnings, leaving room for indecisions in ranking,
payback methods, yield ratio, net present value and discounted cash flow benefits, effects on taxation, investment
project appraisal, cost control, post auditing.
Dicisions on capabilities, production mix, decision on production or purchasing, alternative production methods, issues
on closure of factories, Pricing policies, contribution theory, effects of consumer demand, demand elasticity, marketing
strategies, techniques of performance appraisal, measurements and rations of profitability.
Return on capital employed, capital structure, criteria for comparison of inter – departmental performance, cost benefit
analysis, working capital management, financial control government owned enterprises, preparation of budget, reporting
to management, pricing in government owned enterprises.
Cost benefit analysis, working capital management, Financial Management in government in government commercial
enterprises, Preparation of budget, management reporting Account interpretation and use of financial ratios.
Contents in accounts plan, government reports and government businesses.
(3) Subject No. 38 - Management and Organization :  A paper of 3 hours duration.
Applicants’ knowledge about management and principles of organization. Questions performing to this subject will be set
to test his knowledge about the problems and questions of the public sector and how to solve them using these principles
and other modern management techniques.
Appendix "E"
Sinhala
Sinhala test will consist of Written and oral parts. The written test will be of 2 hours duration and questions will be set on the
following :
(i) Grammer,
(ii) T ranslation into English petitions written in different running hands or reports of Village Headmen or Grama Niladharis.
(iii) Traslation into Sinhala an extract from an English official letter or a document.
The Oral Test consist of the following :
(a) Dictating in Sinhala an English official document, so that a Sinhalese could understand and take in down,
(ii) Reading Sinhala petitions,
(iii) Speech and Interpretation .– The purpose of the test is to assess the candidates’ ability to understand Sinhala of different
classes and to express his ideas in general conversation and in transacting usual official business.
Note.—  A candidate should obtain 40% of total marks for a pass.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
587
Tamil
The Test in Tamil will consist of Written and Oral parts. The written test will be of 2 hours duration and will consist of
questions on the following :
(i) Grammer ;
(ii) T ranslation into English petitions written in various running hands or reports or Village Headmen or Grama Niladharis ;
(iii) Translation into Sinhala an extract from an English official letter or a document.
The Oral Test consist of the following :
(i) Dictating in Tamil an English official document, so that a Tamil person could understand and take it down ;
(ii) Reading Tamil petitions ;
(iii) Speech and Interpretation.–  The purpose of the test is to assess the candidates’ ability to understand Tamil of respective
classes and express his ideas in General Conversation and in transacting usual official business.
Note.-A candidate should obtain 40% marks of total marks for a pass.
English
A specimen question paper is given below for information of candidates :-
Part A
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb given within brackets :-
During the last war country................................ 1 (be) a British Colony..................... 2 (take) a full part i n the war effort.
Consequently our tea, rubber and coconut........................... 3 (ship) to Britain at very favourable prices and the forei gn exchange
we..................... 4 (earn).............................5 (accumulate) as assests. Again during the Korean war in the early fifties our products............
6 (fetch) good prices and we.................. 7 (not have) any exchange problem. However,political independence............... ........ 8 (not given
rise)  to any effort to.......................9(build up) our economy we..................... 10(be) a nation of consumers good s which...............
11 (squander) our foreign exchange on consumer goods which.............12 (can produce) locally and incidentally diversified our economy.
Over the last decade we........................... 13 (begin) to feel the pinch when our primary products.............. 14(fail ) to command good
prices in the world market while our requirments of food both rice and subsidiary food shifts ...........15(rise) in price.
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct preposition (where necessary):
As Assistant Secretary....................... 16 charge........................ 17 subjects, it was my duty to convene groups o f officers
dealing.................... 18 different aspects of development work in the Ministry.................. 19 time to time. They di scussed.....................
20 various problems that they confronted and which they could not cope......................... 21 on their own. We were thus able to share  our
experience................ 22 each other and make concrete proposals.................... 23 the Secretary every month. He in tu rn
put................................. 24 his own plans for discussion.......................... 25 these meetings.
(b) Underline the correct letters given within brackets that would complete the spelling of the following words :-
26. har......... ment(rass/as/ass).
27. ember.............(rass/as/ass)
28. tol.................(arreance/erance/erence)
29. Par....................arian(liament/limen/liment)
30. bal......................ing(let/lat/lot)
31. Itin....................... (erary/array/erarie)
32. Pers.................. (everance/everence/ewerence.)
33. bour........................ (geoise/joursie/juwarsy)
34. prolet..................(ariet/ariat/eariyat).
35. com...................... ate(memorr/emor/memor).
(c) In each  of the following statments underline the correct word within brackets :-
36. The inventory was checked by the Board of (Surveillance/Survey/Surveyors).
37. At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the accused officer has (contradicted/contravened/contaminated) the regulations.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
588
38. Every receipt should have a (counterfoil/counterfeit/counterpane) for the purpose of audit.
39. There was a possibility that the prosecution had (fabricated/fumigated/promulgate) the evidence.
40. (Discrete/Discretionary/Discriminatory) power was given to the Head of the Department under the relevant Act.
41. The police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush until the bribe taker arrived.
42. The entire staff turned upon(facilitate/infirate/felicitate) the watcher on his retirement.
43. In times of national crisis we must avoid(luxuriant/luxurious) habits.
44. Martial music was played over the radio during height of the battle to keep up the (moral/morale/morals) of the people.
45. Candidates are advised to use (Stationary/Stationery) sparingly awing to the acute paper shortage.
(e) Underline the correct phrase in the brackets that means the same as the word or phrase underlined in each sentence:
46. In good management the boss should, support his staff in their work (back out/back up/back away).
47. The sales and replacement of stock amounted to over Rs.5,000 (turn out/turn up/turn away).
48. We were warned at the start not to let out work get into arrears (set out/out set).
49. The younger son wasted his father's wealth in a few years (ran over/ran through).
50. I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred me from going (put away/put off).
Part B
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the questions set out below :-
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, liberty, constitutional government, and respect for the law or at least
the definitions of them, began with the reflection of Greek thinkers upon the institutions of City State, But in the long history of political
thought the meaning of such terms has been variously modified and always that meaning has to be understood in the light of the
institutions by which the indicates were to be realized and of the society in which those institutions did their work. The Greek City States
was so different from the political communities in which modern men live that it requires no small effort of the imagination to picture its
social and political life. The Greek Philosophers were thinking of political practices far different from any that have prevailed commonly
in modern word, and the whole climate of opinion in which the work was done was different. Their problems though not without th eir
analogies in the preset, were never identical with modern problems and the ethical apparatus by which political life was evalua ted and
criticized varied widely from any that now prevails. In order to understand at all accurately what their theories meant it nece ssary first
to realize at least roughly what kind of Institutions they had in view and what citizenship connected as an effect and as an id eal, to the
public for whom they wrote. For this purpose the Government of Athens is especially important, partly because, it is the best k nown,
but chiefly because it was an object of special concern to the greatest of Greek Philosophers.
As compared with modern states the ancient City-State was exceedingly small both in area and in population. The numbers
were exceedingly uncertain but, a figure somewhat in excess of three hundred thousand would be approximately correct. Such an
arrangement of a small territory denominated by a single City was typical off the City State.
In each of the following cases, choose the alternative which in your opinion supports the views expressed in the above passage.  Place a
tick (right mark) against the correct answer:-
51. Athens is significant for the students of Greek political thought mainly because :
(a) it was the most powerful of the Greek City- States ,
(b) its ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks themselves ,
(c) it had the most ideal form of Government ,
(d) it is the best known of the Greak City - State.
52. Greek political thought was concerned with problems :
(a) Entirely unrelated to,
(b) identical with,
(c) different from analogous but to.
53. The moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is :
(a) very similar to modern  moral and religious ideas ,
(b) unknown ,
(c) very different from modern moral and religious ideas.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
589
54. It is :
(a) easy,
(b) not at all easy,
(c) impossible,
for a modern man to imagine what life was like in a Greek City-State.
55. In comparison with the ancient Greek City States are :
(a) very large,
(b) very small,
(c) about the same size.
56. The population of an ancient Greek City States was :
(a) much less than 300,000,
(b) over 3 million,
(c) just over 300,000.
57. The City-State of Athens comprises :
(a) a small territory governed by a singly city,
(b) a large territory governed by a number of cities,
(c) a small territory with village councils,
(d) a large territory with a  decentralized administration.
58. At different times in the history of the world people :
(a) have thought in basicially the same way,
(b) have thought in different ways,
(c) have contradicted the views of people of the previous generation.
59. Details of political theory are derived from Greek Political thought :
(a) because the Greek City States was very  similar to modern states,
(b) in spite of Greek City State being very different from modern States,
(c) because modern political theorists are students of Greek Philiosophy.
60. The meaning of political ideals at the particular moment in European History since the time of the Greeks can be defined only be :
(a) relating it to its context,
(b) tracing it back to its original meaning among the Greeks,
(c) investigating the meaning of the Greek work for it,
(d) taking into account only those features in it which have persisted throughout its history.
61. Write sentences using each of the following words so as to bring out its meaning clearly :
Arbitration, emoluments, etiquette, consolidate, hypothetical, retrospective, exigencies, evaluate, review, empower.
EITHER
62. Write a letter to the Head of an Educational Institute in an English Speaking country, setting out the following informatio n in
an orderly manner :
(i) The equivalence of our examination certificate to the certificate specified in this letter cannot be determined as the examining
authorities in Sri Lanka have not been consulted by the institution concerned in that country :
(ii) The G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Credit Pass has been officially equated with an Ordinary Pass in London G. C. E. (Ordinary
Level) :
(iii) The receipt of the letter sent to the Commissioner of Examinations is acknowledged :
(iv) Any further information in this matter may be obtained from the embassy of the Republic of Sri Lanka in that Country.
63. Write a memorandum to the Secretary, Bureau of Standards marking out  a case for the adoption of the 24 hour clock in this
country stating the advantages of such a measure.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
590
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Office use only
Efficiency Bar Examinations and Second Language Test for the Sri Lanka Accountants Service – 2010
Should be sent by registered post to the Commissioner General of Examinations through the Head of the Department.
Language medium in which the officer is sitting the examination : Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
English – 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Name of the examination should be indicated on top left corner of the envelope)
01. ( a) (i) Last name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(ii) Name with initials with initials last :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) e. g. : Sunil, A. B.
(b) (i) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(ii) Name denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
02. Official Address (Admission Cards will be posted to this address) :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
03. Name of the Examination applied for :––––––––––––.
Note : Please see 4(b) before filling this.
04. (i) The service to which the officer belongs :––––––––––––.
(ii) The date of appointment to that service :
Date : Month : Y ear :
05. Subject applied for should be clearly indicated with subject numbers as indicated in para 4 of the notification :
(i) Subject No. : (v) Subject No. :
(ii) Subject No. : (vi) Subject No. :
(iii) Subject No. : (vii) Subject No. :
(iv) Subject No. :
06. Date of Birth :
Date :                    Month :                        Year :
07. National Identity Card No. :
08. Designation  :––––––––––––.
Name of Department :––––––––––––.
09. Date of appointed to the Sri Lanka Accountants Service  :––––––––––––.
10. The examination applied for by the officer of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service :
(a) First Efficiency Bar Examination (01)
(b) Second Efficiency Bar Examination (02)
(c) Second Language Examination (03)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2010
591
11. State whether you have sat this examination previously as a whole or in parts :––––––––––––.
If so, state subjects, the year and the month :––––––––––––.
Examination Subject Year Month
I, declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the language medium given at top
right corner of this application.
I declare that the stamps affixed to this application are valid and unused before cancellation by me. I am also agreeable to th e
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the examination.
12. The examination fees paid :––––––––––––.
Cage for stamps
––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Forwarded
Mr./Miss./Mrs. ............................ whose particulars are given in this application is eligible to sit this examination  in the
language medium he/she has indicated at top right corner of this application.
I certify the signature of the applicant.
–––––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of the Head of the Department.
04–296
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.