

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2012
2057
2057
wxl 1"780 - 2012 Tlaf;dan¾ 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'10'12
No. 1,780 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2059
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd November, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th
October, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,779 of 05.10.2012 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2012
2058
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2012
2059
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
HAMBANTOTA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 12th Nov ember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th September, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Hambantota T angalle Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Giruwapattuwa South Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Nakulugamuwa Hambantota.
Division
10–451
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2012
2060
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 12th Nov ember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th September, 2012.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Kekirawa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Kekirawa and Tibbotuwewa Areas General, District Secretariat,
of Kalagam Palatha Division Anuradhapura.
10–452
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATALE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2012
2061
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 12th Nov ember,
2012.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th September, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matale Galewela Post of Additional Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(Kandyan/General) in Matale North General, District Secretariat, Matale.
10–568
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  PORTS  AND  HIGHW AYS
Director General's Office of Merchant Shipping
APPLICATIONS are invited for the following post, from the
citizens of Sri Lanka who possess necessary qualifications as
indicated in this notification. Applications which should be in the
form appended to this notification should be sent by registered
post to reach the Director General, Director General's Office of
Merchant Shipping. No. 43-89, First Floor, Bristol Building, York
Street, Colombo 01 on or before 09th November, 2012. The envelope
enclosing the application should be marked the relevant post on the
left hand top corner.
Assistant Government Ship Surveyor (Deck) :
Educational Qualifications .– Applicants should possess a
Certificate of Competency as NWKO (Unlimited).
Experience.– Having served as a Watch Keeping Officer (Deck)
of a trading vessel having a capacity of more than 3,000 G . T.
Age Limit.– Should be not less than 21 years and not more than
45 years on the closing date of applications. (This upper age limit
will not apply to those who are already employed in the Public
Service).
Salary Scale. – Rs. 16,720 - 10x320 - 11x365 - 15 x 450 - Rs.
30,685. (Professional Allowance will be paid addition to monthly
salary).
Terms of Engagement. – Permanent and Pensionable.
Contributions should be made to the Widows' and Orphans' Pension
Fund. This appointment will be on probation for a period of three
years.
Applicants from officers in the Public Service must be forwarded
through the Heads of their Departments.
Director General,
Director General's Office of Merchant Shipping.
1st Floor, Bristol Building,
No. 43-89, York Street,
Colombo 1,
E-mail : dmsmos@sltnet.lk
www.dgshipping.gov.lk
FORM OF APPLICATION
M
INISTRY OF PORTS AND HIGHW AYS
THE POST OF ASSISTANT GOVERNMENT SHIP SURVEYOR (DECK) OF
DIRECTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE OF MERCHANT SHIPPING
1. Name in full :–––––––––––––.
2. Address :–––––––––––––.
3. Date of birth :–––––––––––––.
Age on 09.11.2012 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
4. Nationality :–––––––––––––.
5. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––––.
6. Professional qualifications :–––––––––––––.
7. Particulars of employment and/or training :–––––––––––––.
8. Present employment :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2012
2062
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification before the selection and to dismissal without any
compensation whatsoever if the inaccuracy is detected after the
appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10–516
––––––––––––––––––
AUDITOR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Superintendents of Audit - Class II Grade II of the
Sri Lanka Audit Service - Direct Recruitment
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons possessing the
professional qualifications specified in paragraph 04 below for seven
posts of Superintendents of Audit, Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka
Audit Service in terms of paragaph 04(III) of minutes of the Sri
Lanka Audit Service published in Gazette No. 289/23 of 20th March,
1984 amended by the Gazette Extraordinary No. 588/5 dated 11th
December, 1989 and Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,563/19 dated 20th
August, 2008.
Applications which should be an per specimen form appended
should be addressed to the Auditor General, Auditor General's
Department, No. 306/72. Polduwa Road, Battaramulla and should
be forwarded under registered cover to reach him on or before as
follows :
(a) Local applications : 31.10.2012
(b) Foreign applications : 06.11.2012
The top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application
must be clearly marked "Posts of Superintendents of Audit Class II
Grade II".
Note.– No complaint that an application has been lost or
delayed in the post can be considered. Candidates who
delay their applications until the last day will do so at
their own risk.
2. Terms of engagement and Conditions of Service :
(i) Selected candidates will be appointed to Class II Grade II
of the Sri Lanka Audit Service on the terms and conditions
set out in the Minutes of Sri Lanka Audit Service
published in Gazette No. 588/5 dated 11th December,
1989 and any amendment to be made hence-forth.
(ii) The posts are permanent and pensionable. Contributions
should be made to the Widow's and Orphans' Pension
Fund.
(iii) The selected candidates will be appointed on probation
for a period of three years in the first instance.
(iv) Successful candidates must subscribe to the condition
that they will conform to the provisions of Chapter IV of
the Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time give effect to the Language
Policy of the Government.
(v) Confirmation at the end of their probationary period will
inter alia depend on –
(a) Satisfactory work and conduct ; and
(b) Passing the First Efficiency Bar Examination before
the expiry of the probationary period.
(vi) Failure to secure confirmation at the end of the
probationary period will result in, termination of his/her
service.
3. Salary Scale.– The selected candidates for this posts are entitled
to a monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -
17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 and will be placed on a salary step of
Rs. 26,805 per month subject to condition "should pass the First
Efficiency Bar for officers in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Audit
Service before being confirmed in the post".
4. Qualifications Required .– Every candidate must furnish
satisfactory proof that he/she :-
(a) Is of excellent moral character and physically sound ;
(b) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration ;
(c) Is not less than 22 years and not more than 45 years of
age on 31.10.2012 (This age limit does not apply to
candidates already holding appointments in Public/
Provincial Public Service) ;
(d) A person who has passed the final examination and
obtained at least the Associate Membership of any of the
following Institutions :
(i) The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or in England and Wales ;
(ii) The Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants, U. K. ;
(iii) Association of Chartered Certified Accountants,
U. K. or similar professional body.
Note.– Application should not be forwarded pending results
of any examination.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2012
2063
5. Scheme of Recruitment.– The applicants will be interviewed
by a Board, comprising three Public Officers including the Auditor
General and will be appointed by the Public Service Commission in
the recommendations of the Board after obtaining the marks in
accordance with the marking scheme approved by the Public Service
Commission.
6. Candidates will be required to produce any or all of the following
documents when called upon to do so :
(a) Certificate of registration of birth ;
(b) Certificates of professional and other qualifications ;
(c) Two recent testimonials as to character ;
(d) Certificate of highest examination passed in Sinhala/Tamil
or English.
Note : (i) No documents or copies of documents should
be attached to the application.
(ii) Applications of candidates who fail to produce
documents when requested to do so will not be
considered.
7. Applications from officers in the Public/Provincial Public
Services must be forwarded through their Head of Institutions. A
copy of the application should be sent to the Auditor General directly,
before the closing date.
8. Applications and any other communications relating thereto
must be addressed to the Auditor General and not personalily to any
officers in the Department.
9. Reference is invited to the general conditions applicable to the
appointments in the Public Service advertised at the beginning of
Part I Section (IIA) of the Gazette.
10. The receipt of applications will be notified to candidates
within three weeks commencing from the closing date. If an
acknolwedgement is not received, it should immediately be notified
to the Auditor General, Auditor General's Department, No. 306/72,
Polduwa Road, Battaramulla.
11. Any matters not covered by the above regulations will be
determined by the Public Service Commission.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
H. A. S. S
AMARAWEERA,
Auditor General.
Auditor General's Department,
No. 306/72,
Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla,
24th September, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
A
UDITOR GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT
POSTS OF SUPERINTENDENTS OF AUDIT CLASS II GRADE II OF
THE SRI LANKA AUDIT SERVICE
No. :
(For office use only)
01. (i) Name with initials Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
(ii) Name in full :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
03. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
04. ( a) Male/Female :–––––––––––.
(b) Married/Unmarried/Widower :–––––––––––.
05. (i) Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––,  Date :––––––––.
(ii) Age on .......... 2012 :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
06. (i) Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka by birth or by registration ?
:–––––––––––.
(ii) Ethnic basis :–––––––––––.
Sinhalese/Tamil/Indian Tamil/Muslims
07. Educational and Professional Qualifications :
Institute Qualifications Date of obtaining such
obtained Qualifications
08. Details of the present post :
(a) Post :–––––––––––.
(b) Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(c) Date of appointment :–––––––––––.
(d) Whether permanent and pensionable, temporary or contract
basis :–––––––––––.
(e) Whether cnfirmed in the post :–––––––––––.
(f) Annual Salary Scale :–––––––––––.
(g) Present annual salary :–––––––––––.
09. Highest qualification obtained :
Sinhala :–––––––––––.
Tamil :–––––––––––.
English :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2012
2064
10. Names and addresses of two referees :
(i) –––––––––––.
(ii) –––––––––––.
11. Other particulars, if any :–––––––––.
I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and correct and I am aware that if any particulars contained
herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable for disqulaification
before appointment and for dismissal from service without any
compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the appointment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
12. Attestation :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ who
forward this application is known to me personally and placed his/
her signature in my presence on ....................... 2012.
––––––––––,
Signature of attester.
Date –––––––––––.
Place –––––––––––.
Full Name of the attester –––––––––––.
Designation –––––––––––.
Address –––––––––––.
13. Certificate from the Head of the Institution, if the applicant is in
Public/Provincial Public Service :
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................
is serving in this office from ........................... and his/her work,
attendance and conduct is satisfactory and the applicant is confirmed
in the service and I personally checked all the information furnished
in 08 above with the records available in this office and found correct
and he/she signed in my presence on .................... 2012.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Public/
Provincial Public Institute or the
Authorized Officer.
Date –––––––––––.
Marking Scheme in the Recruitment of Professionally Qualified
persons for the Post of Superintendent of Audit Class II Grade II
of the Sri Lanka Audit Service
(a) Professional Qualifications : Maximum
Marks 25
(i) Other equivalent full professional 15 marks
qualifications obtained in addition
to the basic qualifications
(5 marks per professional
qualification)
(ii) A professional qualification 10 marks
obtained in another field in addition
to the above fields of study
(b) Educational of Qualifications : Maximum
Marks 20
(i) Doctorate or Postgraduate Degree 20 marks
(Auditing/Accounting)
(ii) Doctorate or Postgraduate Degree 17 marks
(in another field of study)
(iii) Postgraduate Diploma (Auditing/ 15 marks
Accounting)
(iv) Postgraduate Diploma (in another 10 marks
field of study)
(v) Degree :
(i) First Class 10 marks
(ii) Second Class Upper Division 08 marks
(iii) Second Class Lower Division 07 marks
(vi) Degree with a Ordinary Pass 05 marks
(c) Computer Literacy : Maximum
Marks 10
(i) A Degree obtained from a 10 marks
recognized University
(ii) A Diploma obtained from a 08 marks
recognized University
(iii) A Certificate on Computer 06 marks
Technology awarded by a
recognized public or private
institution (A course not less than
06 months and not more than
one year)
(iv) A certificate on Computer 04 marks
Technology awarded by a
recognized public or private
institution (A course not more than
06 months and not less than
one month)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2012
2065
(v) A certificate on Computer 03 marks
Technology awarded by a
recognized public or private
institution (A course not less than
02 weeks and not more than
one month)
Marks will be given only for the highest qualification
obtained.
Note.– A Doctorate or a Degree or a Postgraduate Degree
or a Postgraduate Course completed by the Applicant
will not be considered as the educational qualifications
referred to at ( b)IV , (b) V and ( b) VI above and
qualifications on Computer Literacy referred to at (c)(I)
and (c)(II) above.
(d) Experience : Maximum
Marks 20
Two marks for each year of service in the
related field after the required period
of two years since the completion of the
basic qualifications by the applicant
(c) Special Skills : Maximum
Marks 10
(i) Work as resource persons 03 marks
(ii) Published Project Reports, 05 marks
Research Reports and Professional
or Educational Books
(iii) Other skills recognized by the 02 marks
Interview Board
(f) Skills demonstrated at the interview Maximum
Marks 15
Communication and Presentation Skills
Demonstrated at the Interview
Total Maximum
Marks 100
10–598
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.