

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
KAPRUKA FUND ACT, No. 31 OF 2005
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 22nd September, 2005]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 13.50 Postage : Rs. 7.50
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2005

<!-- page 2 -->

1Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
Short title.
2—PL 000492—5,650 (07/2005)
[Certified on 22nd September, 2005]
L.D.—O.  60/2004.
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  A  FUND  CALLED  THE
K APRUKA  FUND , TO  SPECIFY ITS OBJECTIVES  AND  POWERS  ; TO  PROVIDE
FOR  THE  REGISTRATION  OF  KAPRUKA  SOCIETIES  AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR
MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may  be  cited  as  the  Kapruka  Fund  Act,
No. 31  of 2005.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  KAPRUKA  FUND
2. (1) There shall be established a Fund which shall be
called the Kapruka Fund (hereinafter referred to as “the
Fund”)
(2) The Fund shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1) of this section, be a body corporate and shall
have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue
and be sued in such name.
3. (1) The administration, management and control of
the Fund shall be vested in a Board of Management
constituted as hereinafter provided.
(2) The Board of Management of the Fund (hereinafter
referred to as “the Board”) shall consist of the following
members :—
(a) the Chairman of the Coconut Cultivation Board ;
(b) the Chairman of the Coconut Development
Authority ;
(c) the Chairman of the Coconut Research Board ;
Establishment of
the Kapruka
Fund.
Constitution of
the Board of
Management of
the Fund.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
(d) the General Manager of the Coconut Cultivation
Board, Director-General of the Coconut
Development Authority and the Director of the
Coconut Research Institute ;
(e) an officer from the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Plantation Industry, not below the
rank of an Additional Secretary appointed by the
Minister ;
(f) two members appointed by the Minister, from among
persons who have gained distinction in the coconut
industry ; and
(g) the President of the Sri Lanka Federation of Kapruka
Societies and four representatives nominated by the
Federation.
4. (1) The Chairman of the Coconut Cultivation Board
shall be the ex-officio Chairman of the Board of Management.
(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of section 5
the term of office of the Chairman of the Board shall be his
period of membership of the Board.
(3) The total membership of the Board shall be fourteen.
5. (a) The Chairman or a member of the Board appointed
under paragraphs (e) and (g) of subsection (2) of section 3
may resign from the office of Chairman or member by letter
in that behalf addressed to the Minister.
(b) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove the
Chairman or any member of the Board from the office of
Chairman or member.
6. Members and officers of the Kapruka Societies
registered under this Act, shall be entitled to membership of
the Fund.
Chairman of the
Board.
Resignation and
removal of
Chairman and
members.
Membership of
the Fund.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
7. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall preside at every
meeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman from
any meeting of the Board, any member elected from among
the members present shall preside at such meeting.
(2) The quorum for any meeting of the board shall be
seven members including the members referred to in
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of subsection (2) of section 3.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of
this section, the Board may regulate the procedure in regard
to the meetings of the Board, and the transaction of business
at such meetings.
8. No act, or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed to
be invalid by reason only of the existence of a vacancy among
its members or any defect in the appointment of members
thereof.
9. (1) (a) Every member of the Board appointed under
paragraph (f) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall hold office
for a period of three years from the date of his appointment,
unless he is removed from or otherwise vacates office earlier.
(b) Every member of the Board appointed under paragraph
(g) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall hold office for a period
of one year from the date of his appointment or till the
appointment of new officers after an election, unless he is
removed from or otherwise vacates office earlier.
(2) Every ex-officio member of the Board shall hold office
so long as he holds the post by virtue of which he is a member
of the Board.
(3) A member of the Board appointed under paragraph (f)
or (g) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall vacate office if he is
removed from office by the Minister with reasons assigned
therefor or he resigns his office by letter addressed to the
Minister.
Vacancy among
members not to
invalidate act or
proceeding of
the Board.
Meetings of the
Board.
Term of office of
members.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
(4) Where any member of the Board appointed under
paragraph (f) or (g) of subsection (2) of section 3 vacates
office by death, resignation or removal from office, the
Minister shall having regard to the provisions of that
paragraph, appoint another person to act in the place of such
member. The person so appointed shall hold office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of his predecessor in
office.
(5) Any member of the Board vacating office otherwise
than by removal shall be eligible for re-appointment.
(6) Where a member of the Board is temporarily unable to
discharge the functions of his office on account of ill health,
absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may
appoint some other person to act as a member in his place.
10. (1) The Fund shall have a common seal which shall
be in the custody of such person as the Board may decide
from time to time.
(2) The seal of the Fund may be altered in such manner as
may be determined by the Board.
(3) The seal of the Fund shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except in the persence of two
members of the Board, both of whom shall sign the instrument
or document in token of their presence.
(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instruments
and documents to which the seal of the fund is affixed.
11. A member of the Board who is directly or indirectly
interested in a contract proposed to be made by the Board
shall disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the
Board. The disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the
Board, and such member shall not take part in any
deliberations or decisions of the Board with respect to such
contract.
Seal of the Fund.
Members to
disclose interest
in contracts.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
12. The members of the Board shall be remunerated in
such manner and at such rates as the Minister may, with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
determine.
PART II
O
BJECTS  OF  THE  FUND
13. The objects of the Fund shall be—
(a) to inculcate and promote thrift among, and uplift
the economic and social status of coconut
smallholders ;
(b) to assist coconut smallholders to increase coconut
production and agricultural productivity in their
smallholdings and to increase the yield from their
coconut smallholdings by the use of relevant
scientific technology ;
(c) to promote suitable investments related to the
establishment and development of coconut based
small industries ;
(d) to acquire, develop or establish, coconut processing
units, factories and other facilities required for the
manufacturing of finished products of  coconut
smallholdings ;
(e) to register and regulate coconut smallholdings
development societies and societies of coconut
based small industries (in this Act referred to as
“Kapruka Societies”) and to provide assistance to
the members of such societies registered with the
Fund ;
(f) to promote and develop the marketing of the
produce of such coconut processing units and
factories ; and
(g) to assist Kapruka Societies for the improvement and
well being of those engaged in the production of
coconut in smallholdings and small industries.
Objects of the
Fund.
Remuneration of
the members.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
14. (1) The Board shall in the name of the Fund, have
the power to take all measures necessary for or conducive or
incidental to the carrying out of the objects of the Fund.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Board shall have the
following powers :—
(a) to enter into and perform or carry out, whether
directly or indirectly, through any officer or agent
authorized in writing in that behalf by the Board,
all such contracts or agreements as are necessary for
carrying out the objects of the Fund ;
(b) to purchase, transport, store, supply and maintain,
any commodity, equipment or machinery necessary
for the carrying out of the objectives of the Fund ;
(c) to appoint, employ, remunerate and exercise
disciplinary control over such officers and agents
as may be necessary for carrying out the objectives
of the Fund ;
(d) to establish and maintain pension or provident fund
schemes for the benefit of coconut smallholders and
coconut based small industries to insure members
of the Fund, against any risks ;
(e) to train members, officers and employees of the Fund;
(f) to open, operate and close bank accounts for carrying
out the objects of the Fund ;
(g) to levy fees or other charges for services performed
or facilities or equipment provided by the Fund ;
(h) to provide assistance, including financial assistance
by way of loans or grants to any Kapruka Society
registered under this Act engaged in the processing,
or marketing of coconut or coconut products ;
(i) to invest such monies of the Fund which is not
immediately required for its purposes, in such
securities as the Board may consider fit ;
Powers of the
Fund.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
(j) (i) to require any person to maintain true and accurate
records in such form and containing such
particulars as may be specified by the Board,
relating to any matter as may be necessary for the
carrying out of the objects of the Fund or the
exercise of the powers of the Board ;
(ii) to require any person to furnish, within a
specified period of time, all such returns,
information and explanations as are within
the knowledge of that person relating to any
matter as may be necessary for the carrying
out of the objects of the Fund or the exercise
of the powers of the Board ;
(iii) to require any person to produce, or cause to
be produced, before a specified date such
documentary or other evidence as the Board
may require for the purpose of verifying any
facts entered in any record maintained under
sub-paragraph (i) or stated in any return,
information or explanation furnished under
sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph ;
(iv) to enter and inspect, at any reasonable time,
any land, building, office, store, factory, shed
or premises for the purpose of examining and
verifying any records required to be
maintained under sub-paragraph (i) of this
paragraph or for the purpose of verifying any
particulars contained in any return or
information or explanation furnished to the
Board under sub-paragraph (ii) or (iii) of this
paragraph or for the purpose of inspecting and
checking stocks.
(3) Any person who fails, without reasonable cause, to
comply with the provisions of sub-paragraph (i), or sub-
paragraph (ii), or sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (j) of
subsection (2) of this section, or who knowingly maintains
any false records or knowingly furnishes any false returns,
information, explanations or documentary or other evidence,
or who obstructs the Board in the exercise of the powers
conferred on it by sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph (j) of
subsection (2), shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
PART III
K APRUKA  SOCIETIES
15. The following persons shall be eligible to obtain
membership of a Kapruka Society registered under this
Act :—
(a) coconut smallholders who are not less than eighteen
years of age and who own coconut lands within the
proposed area of operations of such Society;
(b) coconut smallholders who are issued permits for new
planting within that area ; and
(c) newly established coconut based small industries
presently carrying on business within the area.
16. The objectives of every Kapruka Society registered
under this Act, shall be :—
(a) to create and foster understanding among its
members and to cooperate to obtain maximum
benefits for their produce ;
(b) to inculcate and promote thrift among and uplift
the economic and social status of its members ;
(c) to assist coconut smallholders to increase the
coconut production and agricultural productivity
of their small holdings and to increase the profits
from their coconut smallholdings by the use of
relevant scientific technology ;
(d) to promote suitable investments related to the
coconut industry ;
(e) to acquire, develop or establish coconut processing
units, factories and other facilities required for the
manufacture of the produce of its members ;
Membership of
Kapruka Society.
Objectives of the
Kapruka Society.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
(f) to provide financial and other assistance to its
members;
(g) to facilitate the production of value added coconut
based products;
(h) to promote and develop the marketing of produce
of such coconut processing units and factories; and
(i) to take such measures as may be necessary for the
improvement and well being of its members.
17. (1) A Kapruka Society may apply to the Board for
registration under this Act, in the manner prescribed by
regulations together with the fee prescribed therefor.
(2) A Kapruka Society registered under and in accordance
with regulations made under this Act shall, by the name
under which it is registered under this Act, be a body corporate
with perpetual succession and may sue and be sued in such
name.
(3) Every Kapruka Society registered under this Act, shall
have a common seal which shall be in the custody of such
person as such Society may decide.
(4) (a) Upon registration of a Kapruka Society under this
Act, the Board shall cause to be published in the Gazette, a
Notification stating that a Kapruka Society has been
registered in the name assigned to it in the register and the
date with effect from which such Kapruka Society has been
so registered.
(b) Upon the cancellation of the registration of a registered
Kapruka Society, the Board shall cause to be published in
the Gazette, a Notification stating that the registration of
such Society has been cancelled.
Registration of a
Kapruka Society.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
PART IV
FINANCE  AND  STAFF
18. There shall be paid into the Fund—
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from  time
to time by the Parliament for the use of the Fund;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Fund in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions.
19. There shall be paid out of the Fund—
(a) such sums of money as are required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Board in the working
and maintenance of the Fund;
(b) all such sums of money as are required to meet such
payments as are approved by the Board as being
necessary for the purpose of carrying out of the
objects of the Fund, and all such sums of money as
are required by this Act to be paid out of the Fund;
and
(c) all such sums of money as are necessary to meet the
liabilities of the Kapruka Societies subsisting on
the date of commencement of this Act.
20. All movable and immovable property of the Kapruka
Societies on the date of commencement of this Act, shall vest
in the Fund with effect from such date.
21. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and other transactions of the Fund.
(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Fund.
Payment into the
Fund.
Payments out of
the Fund.
Acquisition of
assets.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
(3) The income and expenditure account of the Fund and
the balance sheet shall be signed by two members of the
Board authorized to do so by a resolution passed by the
Board.
22. The Financial year of the Fund shall be the calendar
year.
23. (1) At the request of the Authority, any officer in the
public service may with the consent of that officer, the
Secretary to the Ministry under which that officer is employed
and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of
the subject of Public Administration, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Fund for such period as may be
determined by the Board with like consent, or with like
consent, be permanently appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to him.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to him.
(4) Where the Authority employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Fund by that person shall be regarded
as service to the Government for the purpose of discharging
the obligations of such contract.
Financial Year.
Appointment of
public officers to
the Staff of the
Fund.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
PART V
G ENERAL
24. (1) The Board may delegate to any member of the
Board or to any officer or servant of the Fund, any of its
powers.
(2) Every member or officer or servant to whom any power
is delegated under subsection (1) shall exercise such power
subject to the direction and control of the Board.
25. In the exercise and performance of its powers and
duties the Board shall be subject to any general or special
directions given by the Minister.
26. (1) No action or prosecution shall be instituted—
(a) against the Board for any lawful act which in good
faith is done by the Board;
(b) against any member or agent of the Board or any
officer or servant of the Fund for any lawful act which
in good faith is done by him under this Act or on the
direction of the Board.
(2) Any expense incurred by the Board in any action or
prosecution brought by or against the Board before any court
shall be paid by the Fund, and any costs paid to, or recovered
by the Board in any such action or prosecution shall be
credited to the Fund.
(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referred
to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any action or
prosecution brought against him before any court in respect
of any act which is done by him under this Act or on the
direction of the Board shall, if the court holds that such act
was done by him in good faith, be paid by the Fund, unless
such expense has been advanced to such person by the Fund
or such expense is recovered by him in such suit or
prosecution.
Delegation of
powers of the
Board.
The Board to be
subject to the
direction of the
Minister.
Protection for
action taken
under this Act or
on the direction
of the Board.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
27. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against a member of the Board  in any action brought against
the Board.
28. Every person who commits an offence under this
Act shall, on conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be
liable to imprisonment of either description for a period not
exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding ten thousand
rupees or to both such imprisonment and fine.
29. All members of the Board and officers and servants
of the Fund shall be deemed to be public servants within the
meaning, and for the purposes, of the Penal Code.
30. The Fund shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
31. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
any matter in respect of which regulations are authorized by
this Act to be made.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1) the Minster may make regulations
in respect of all or any of the following maters:—
(a) the administration of the affairs of the Fund and
financial procedures;
(b) the conditions for registration of societies;
(c) the making of by-laws for registered societies and
executive committee of such societies;
(d) the cancellation of registration of kapruka societies;
No writ to be
issue against
person or
property of a
member of the
Board.
Penalty.
Members of the
Board and
officers and
servants of the
Fund deemed to
be public
servants.
The Fund shall
be deemed to be
a scheduled
institution.
Regulations.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
(e) the conduct of meetings of societies and its
committees;
(f) the arbitration procedure and appointment of
arbitrators for settlement of disputes;
(g) the liquidation procedure and powers of the
liquidator;
(h) all matters which are required by this Act to be
prescribed.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon as
convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of such disapproval without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.
32. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
33. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—
“coconut and coconut based small industries” means small
and irregular units of production on domestic level ;
Sinhala Text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
“Coconut Cultivation Board” means the Coconut
Cultivation Board established by Order  under
section 2 of the Coconut Development Act, No. 46
of 1971;
“Coconut Development Authority” means the Coconut
Development Authority established by section 24
of the Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971;
“Coconut Research Board” means the Coconut Research
Board established by the Coconut Research
Ordinance (Chapter);
“Coconut Research Institute” means the Coconut Research
Institute established under section 2 of the Coconut
Research Ordinance ; and
“coconut small holding” means an area of land which is
fifty acres or less than fifty acres in extent and the
expression, “coconut smallholder” shall be
construed accordingly.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Kapruka Fund Act, No. 31 of 2005
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.