

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
V ALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT )
ACT, No. 8 OF 2006
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 31st March, 2006]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 29.75 Postage : Rs.10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 31, 2006

<!-- page 2 -->

1V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Short title.
Amendment of
section 2 of the
Value Added Tax
Act No. 14 of
2002.
[Certified on 31st March 2006]
L.D.–O 2/2006.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  VALUE  ADDED  TAX
A CT , NO .14 OF  2002.
BE  it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax
(Amendment) Act, No.  8   of 2006.
2. Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, No.14 of 2002
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) in subsection (1) by the substitution, for sub-
paragraph (iv) of the following:-
“(iv) (a) for any taxable period commencing on
or after January 1, 2005 but prior to July
01, 2005 and for the period July 1, 2005
to August 1, 2005 at the rate of eighteen
per centum (Luxury Rate) of which the
Tax Fraction is 9/59; and
(b) for the period commencing on August
2, 2005 and ending on September 30,
2005 and for any taxable period
commencing on or after October 1, 2005
at the rate of twenty per centum
(Luxury Rate) of which the Tax Fraction
is 1/6,
on the value of such goods or services supplied or
goods imported as referred to in the Fourth Schedule
other than such goods or services chargeable with
the tax at zero per centum ; and”.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
(2) in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (c) of subsection
(2), by the substitution for the words and figures
“the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka. Law, No.4 of
1978,” of the words and figures “the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No.4 of 1978; or”;
(3) by the substitution in subsection (2) for all the words
from “Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law No.4 of
1978” to the words “by the recipient of the supplies.”
of the following:-
“(iii) on the supply of garments by a manufacturer
approved by the Textile Quota Board
established under the Textile Quota Board Act,
No.  33 of 1996 being garments manufactured
from fabric supplied by an exporter of
garments registered with the Textile Quota
Board who exports directly or through an
Export Trading House which has entered into
an agreement under section 17 of the Board
of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No.4 of 1978,
with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
established under the aforesaid Law; or
(iv) on the supply of any service which results in
the improvement of the quality, character or
value of any garment manufactured by any
manufacturer of garments for export either
directly or through any Export Trading House
which has entered into an agreement with the
Board of  Investment of Sri Lanka under
section 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka Law, No.4 of 1978, being a supply made
by any supplier approved by the Textile Quota
Board established under the Textile Quota
Board Act, No.33 of 1996,

<!-- page 4 -->

3V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
until such time as the activities of such garment
manufacturer or service provider is monitored by
the Textile Quota Board and the Textile Quota Board
furnishes to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-
General, the reconciliation on the disposal of such
goods on a quarterly basis as stipulated by the
Commissioner-General stating that such finished
goods are in fact exported by the recipient of the
supplies.”;
(4) in the second proviso to subsection (3)-
(a) by the addition, immediately after sub-
paragraph (iv) of paragraph (a) of that
subsection, of the following:-
“(v) any plant or machinery imported,
including any plant or machinery
received from a customs bonded area,
by a registered person who imports or
receives such plant or machinery for the
usage by such person for the
manufacture of goods to be exported
by such person;
(vi) any goods imported, including any
goods received from customs bonded
area, by a registered supplier approved
by the Textile Quota Board referred to
in paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of
section 2 who imports or receives such
goods for the manufacture of goods or
the provision of services to a
manufacturer of garments for export,
registered with the Textile Quota Board
established under the Textile Quota
Board Act, No.33 of 1996, under the V AT
deferment  scheme;

<!-- page 5 -->

4 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
(vii) any plant or machinery imported
including any plant or machinery
received from a customs bonded area
by a registered person approved by the
Textile Quota Board referred to in
paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of
section 2 who imports or receives such
plant or machinery for the usage by such
person for the manufacture of goods or
supply of services referred to in
paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of section
2 for manufacture of goods to be
exported;
(viii)any goods imported including any
goods received from customs bonded
area, by a registered supplier approved
by the Export Development Board
referred to in paragraph (d) of subsection
(2) of section 2 who imports or receives
such goods for the manufacture for such
supply;
(ix) any plant or machinery imported
including any plant or machinery
received from a customs bonded area
by a registered person approved by the
Export Development Board, referred to
in paragraph (d) of subsection (2) of
section 2, who imports or receives such
plant or machinery for the usage by such
person for the manufacture of goods
referred to in paragraph (d) of subsection
(2) of section 2 for manufacture of goods
to be exported.”;
(b) in paragraph (c) of the second proviso of that
subsection, by the substitution for the words
and figures “any ship imported on or after

<!-- page 6 -->

5V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Amendment of
section 3 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 6 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 20 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 22 of the
principal
enactment.
January 1, 2003”, of the words and figures
“any ship imported on or after January 1, 2003
but prior to November 16, 2005,”.
3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) in paragraph (d) by the substitution for the words
“Sri Lanka.” of the words “Sri Lanka;”
(2) by the addition immediately after paragraph (d) of
the following:-
“(e) any person, who supplies such goods under
any tender  agreement.”.
4. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (a), by the substitution for the words
“five per centum” and of the words “seven per centum; and”.
5. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (c) of subsection (1), by the substitution
for the words “payment for such service in full has been
received from outside Sri Lanka through a bank in Sri Lanka.”
of the words “the payment for such services in full has been
received in foreign currency from outside Sri Lanka through
a bank in Sri Lanka.”.
6. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (a) of subsection (6), by the substitution
for the words “shall be considered as supplies made under
the standard rate of tax.” of the words and figures “shall be
considered as supplies made under the appropriate rate
specified in section 2 of the Act.”.
7. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) in subsection (3) of that section-

<!-- page 7 -->

6 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
(a) by the substitution for the words “which tax
can be levied” wherever such words appear,
of the words and figures “which tax can be
levied other than any tax levied under Chapter
IIIA of the Act”;
(b) by the repeal of the fourth proviso to that
subsection and the replacement therefor of the
following proviso:-
“Provided further, any input tax paid on
the purchase of goods or services specified in
the Fourth Schedule (Luxury rate) by any
person which is allowable under this Act shall
be restricted to fifteen per centum. “.
(2) in paragraph (d) of the second proviso to subsection
(5), by the substitution for all the words and figures
from “such deferred tax under section 2,” to the words
“whichever is later:” of the words and figures –
“such deferred tax under section 2;
(e) there is an excess of input tax including tax
deferred under section 2 of any registered
person who is registered with the Textile Quota
Board being a supplier of goods or services to
any registered person referred to in paragraph
(c) of subsection (2) of section 2 or any
registered person who is registered with the
Export Development Board being a supplier
of goods to exporters of goods, referred to in
paragraph (d) of subsection (2) of section 2
the value of supplies to suppliers referred to
in paragraph (c) or (d) for the taxable period
was more than fifty per centum of his total
taxable supplies for that taxable period,

<!-- page 8 -->

7V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
such part of the excess or such excess as the case
may be, including any excess brought forward from
any taxable period under this Act or under the Goods
and Services Tax Act, No.34 of 1996 for any taxable
period ending on or before July 31, 2002, shall be
refunded, subject to the provisions of section 58 in
the following manner-
(a) if the excess is in respect of the taxable period
commencing on or after August 1, 2002 but
ending prior to January 01, 2006, such excess
shall be refunded not later than one month
after the end of the taxable period or from the
date of receipt of the return for such taxable
period whichever is later;
(b) if the excess is in respect of a taxable period
commencing on or after January 1, 2006 –
(i) the excess shall be refunded to a
registered person referred to in
paragraphs (c), (d) or (e), not later than
fifteen days after the end of the taxable
period or from the date of receipt of the
return for the taxable period whichever
is later, provided such refund is subject
to the furnishing of a bank guarantee or
an insurance bond by the registered
person, which is valid for a period of
three months; and
(ii)the excess shall in all other cases be
refunded not later than forty-five days
after the end of taxable period or from
the date of receipt of the return for the
relevant taxable period whichever is
later:”;

<!-- page 9 -->

8 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Amendment of
section 25c of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 25
D  of
the principal
enactment.
(3) in subsection (6) of that section by the addition
immediately after paragraph (iv) thereof, of the
following:-
“For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared
that for the purpose of this subsection, where the
return has not been furnished, the input tax shall be
deemed not to have been deducted from the output
tax.”.
8. Section 25
C  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the addition
immediately at the end of that subsection of the
following:-
“For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared
that “economic depreciation” referred to in this
subsection, shall not apply in relation to any assets
of any person registered under the Finance Leasing
Act, No. 56 of 2000, being an asset which forms part
of the leasing stocks of such person.”;
(2) in subsection (8), by the substitution for the words
and figures “payable for each month commencing
on or after January 1, 2004 shall be fifteen
percentum” of the words and figures “payable for
each month commencing on or after January 1, 2004
but ending on or before December 31, 2005 shall be
fifteen percentum and for each month commencing
on or after January 1, 2006 shall be twenty
percentum,”.
9. Section 25
D  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the addition at the end of that section, of the
following: -

<!-- page 10 -->

9V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Amendment of
section 25F of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 26 of the
principal
enactment.
“For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared
that any reference in this section to “tax paid” means
the tax calculated and paid to the Commissioner-
General after deducting credit for input tax.”.
10. Section 25F of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (f) and the substitution
therefor of the following:-
“(f) issue, underwriting, sub-underwriting or subscribing
of any equity security, debt security or participatory
security.”.
11. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following :-
“(1) The tax in respect of any taxable period shall
be paid not later than the twentieth day of the month
following the end of the taxable period:
Provided that, in a case of a person whose taxable
period falls in the definition referred to in paragraph
(b) of the definition of the expression taxable period
referred to in section 83, the tax in respect of any
quarter commencing on or after January 1, 2006
shall be paid, subject to the making of any final
adjustments, if any, with the submission of the
return, in the following manner:-
(a) the tax payable for the first month of the
taxable period, shall be paid not later than the
twentieth day of the second month of the
taxable period;
(b) the tax payable for the second month of the
taxable period shall be paid not late than the
twentieth day of the third month of the taxable
period;

<!-- page 11 -->

10 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Amendment of
section 34 of the
principal
enactment.
(c) the tax payable for the taxable period after
deducting there from the amount under
paragraphs (a) and (b) shall be paid not later
than the twentieth day of the month following
the end of that taxable period.
Any tax not paid as set out above shall be deemed
to be in default and the person by whom such tax is
payable or where any tax is payable by more than
one person, each such person shall be deemed to be
a defaulter for the purposes of this Act.”.
12. Section 34 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) in subsection (6) by the substitution for the
words “made by an Assessor,” of the words “made
by an Assessor, other than the Assessor who made
such assessment against which the appeal in
preferred”.
(2) in the second proviso to subsection (8), by the
substitution for all the words from “The receipt of”
to the words “date of receipt of such appeal” and
substitute the following :—
“The receipt of every appeal shall be
acknowledged (within thirty days of its receipt and
where so acknowledged, the date of the letter of
acknowledgement shall for the purposes of this
section be deemed to be the date of receipt of such
appeal). Where however the receipt of any appeal is
not so acknowledged, such appeal shall be deemed
to have been received by the Commissioner-General
on the day on which it is delivered to the
Commissioner-General.”.

<!-- page 12 -->

11V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Amendment of
section 58 of the
principal
enactment.
13. Section 58 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the proviso to subsection (1) by the substitution
for all the words from “in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
subsection (5) of section 22 to the words “which ever is later.”
of the words –
“in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of subsection
(5) of section 22, shall be refunded to such person
within forty- five days from the end of the taxable
period or from the date of the receipt of the return
for the taxable period in which the excess arose,
whichever is later:
Provided further, that any such amount paid in
excess by a registered person referred to in
paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of subsection (5) of section
22 shall be refunded to such person within fifteen
days if such amount of the refund is subject to a
furnishing of a bank guarantee or for an insurance
bond which is valid for a period of three months
from the end of the taxable period, or from the date
of the receipt of the return for the taxable period in
which the excess arose, whichever is later.”.
14. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 58 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 58
A  of that enactment:-
58A . (1) A person who being a tourist has
proved to the satisfaction of the Secretary to
the Ministry in charge of the subject of Finance
or any person authorised by him in that behalf
by a claim made in writing in then specified
from,-
(a) that such tourist has purchased any
specified goods in Sri Lanka from any
registered person who is an authorized
retailer for the purposes of this section;
“Refund of
tax to
tourists.
Insertion of
section 58
A  in
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
(b) such goods are in excess of the
minimum value as prescribed; and
(c) such tourist has paid the tax on such
purchasers as per the tax invoice issued
to him,
shall, if such tourist produces the relevant
goods to the authorized person for inspection
at point of departure and if such goods are being
removed from Sri Lanka within two months
from the date of purchase of such goods, the
Secretary or the person authorised as the case
may be, may on being satisfied of such facts,
refund or make necessary arrangements to
refund to such tourist, in foreign currency, such
amount of the tax paid as exceeds the equivalent
to US Dollars One Hundred in rupee value, at
the time of such removal of goods from Sri
Lanka.
(2) Any retailer who is a registered person
under this Act shall apply to the Secretary to
the Ministry or any person authorized by him
in that behalf, for the purpose of registration
under this section and such registered retailer
shall be deemed to be an authorized retailer.
(3) Any authorized retailer who violates any
condition subject to which his registration is
issued, shall be guilty of an offence and shall
on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding
rupees one hundred thousand and to the
cancellation of his registration.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (1) of section 20, a tax invoice shall
be issued by any authorized retailer, at the time
of such supply by such authorized retailer to
any tourist who has purchased such specified
goods only in relation to such specified goods.

<!-- page 14 -->

13V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
(5) Notwithstanding any other provisions to
the contrary in this Act, every authorized retailer
shall be allocated with monthly taxable periods
by the Commissioner-General and such
authorized retailer shall furnish monthly returns
accordingly.
(6) For the purposes of this section -
“tourist” means any individual who is not
a citizen of Sri Lanka and who  is not
employed in Sri Lanka, or who has not
lived in Sri Lanka for three hundred
and sixty five days or more in the last
two years prior to the date of his arrival
in Sri Lanka;
“specified goods” shall be such goods as
are specified by Order published in the
Gazette.
15. Section 71 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for subsection (2) thereof, of the
following :-
“(2) There shall be credited to the Fund -
(i) twenty five per centum of the tax collected in
every month starting from the period
commencing from August 1, 2002, on or before
the fifteenth day of the month immediately
succeeding that month and each month
thereafter; and
(ii)ten per centum of the tax collected by the
Director-General of Customs on importation
of goods referred to in subsection (3) of section
2 for the period commencing from January 1,
2006, on or before the fifteenth day of the
month immediately succeeding that month
and each month thereafter.”.
Amendment of
section 71 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Replacement of
Section 73 of the
principal
enactment.
16. Section 73 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection:-
“(1) Every person who has been appointed or is
deemed to be appointed under this Act or who has
been employed in carrying out or in assisting any
person in carrying out the provisions of this Act,
shall preserve, and assist in preserving secrecy with
regard to all matters that may come to his knowledge
in the performance of his duties under this Act, and
shall not communicate any such matter to any person
other than the person to whom such matter relates or
his authorized representative or to the Minister or
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-
charge of the subject of Finance nether suffer nor
permit any person to have access to any records in
the possession, custody or control of the
Commissioner -General.”;
(2) in subsection (2), by the substitution for the words
“Every person” for the words “Every person
appointed or deemed to be employed under or”;
(3) in subsection (3), by the substitution for the words
“No person employed in carrying out the provisions
of this Act shall be required to produce in any court
any return, document or” of the words “No person
appointed or deemed to be appointed under this Act
or employed in carrying out or in assisting any
person in carrying out the provisions of this Act
shall be required to produce in any court any return,
document or assessment”;
(4) in subsection (4), by the substitution for all the words
from “Notwithstanding anything” to the words “a
corrected copy” of the words “Notwithstanding
anything contained in this section, any officer of

<!-- page 16 -->

15V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
the Department of Inland Revenue may
communicate any matter which comes to his
knowledge in the performance of his duties under
this  Act  or  under  any other written law administered
by the Commissioner-General to any other officer
of that Department, if the communication of such
matter is necessary for the performance of any duty
under this Act or such other written law and the
Commissioner-General may produce or cause to be
produced in any court in any proceedings under
this Act a copy of any particulars contained in any
return or document furnished to him under this Act
or under any other written law administered by him
or which is otherwise in his possession, certified by
him or on his behalf to be a correct copy of such
particulars and such copy shall, notwithstanding
anything in the Evidence Ordinance relating to the
proof of documents, be admissible in evidence:”
(5) by the repeal of subsections (5) and (6) and the
replacement therefor, of the following new
subsections:-
“(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in the
preceding provisions of this section the
Commissioner-General shall-
(a) when required by a Commission established
under the Special Presidential Commissions
of Inquiry Law, No.7 of 1978, furnish as
specified in a notice issued by such
Commission, all information available to him
relating to the affairs of any person, whose
conduct is being inquired into by the
Commission or of the spouse or a son or
daughter of such person, or of any other person
specified by the Commission and to produce

<!-- page 17 -->

16 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
or furnish as so specified in the notice any
document relating to such person, spouse, son
or daughter or other person as the case may
be, which is in the possession or under the
control of the Commissioner-General;
(b)  when required by the Attorney-General, in
the course of an investigation of an allegation
of bribery against any  person or  after the
commencement   of  prosecution or an
arraignment of any person for bribery, furnish,
as specified in the notice issued to him, all
information available to him relating to the
affairs of such person or of the spouse or a son
or daughter of such person, and produce or
furnish, as specified in the notice, any
document or a certified copy of any document
relating to such person, spouse, son or
daughter which is in the possession or under
the control of the Commissioner-General;
(c) where required by a Commission appointed
under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, furnish
as specified in a notice issued to him, all
information available to him relating to the
affairs of any person whose conduct is being
inquired into by the commission or of the
spouse or a son or daughter of such person
and produce or furnish as specified in such
notice, any document or a certified copy of
any document relating to such person, spouse,
son or daughter which is in the possession or
under the control of the Commissioner-
General;
(d) report to the Attorney-General for
investigation any case where he suspects from
information available to him that any person
is guilty of bribery.

<!-- page 18 -->

17V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in the
preceding provisions of this section, any officer of
the Department of Inland Revenue shall at the
request of the Land Reform Commission established
under the Land Reform Law, No.1 of 1972, disclose
to such Commission such particulars relating to the
affairs of any person that may come to his knowledge
in the performance of his duties under this Act, as
may be required by such Commission for the
exercise of its powers and the discharge of its
functions under that Law.”.
(7) Notwithstanding any thing contained in this
section the Commissioner-General may permit the
Auditor-General or any officer of the Department of
the Auditor-General duly authorized by him in that
behalf to have access to any books, records, returns
or other documents as may be necessary for the
performance of his official duties.
The Auditor-General or any officer authorised
by him under this subsection shall for the purpose
of subsection (2), be deemed to be a person
employed in carrying out the provisions of this Act.
(8) Notwithstanding anything in the preceding
provisions of this section the Commissioner-General
or any person authorized in that behalf by the
Commissioner-General may, from time to time, cause
to be published in such manner as the Commissioner-
General may consider expedient,-
(a) a list containing the names and addresses of
all the tax payers and the total income
declared in the returns of such tax payers in
respect of any year of assessment and, where
the Commissioner-General considers it
necessary, their principal sources of income;
and

<!-- page 19 -->

18 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
(b) particulars relating to any person who has
been convicted in any court of law for any
offence under this Act or on whom a penalty
has been imposed by the Commissioner-
General under section 67 or under section 38.
(9) Where for the purposes of prosecuting any
director, manager, or other officer or employee of an
insurance  business  who  has acted in  a manner
prejudicial to the interests of the holders of policies
issued in respect of that business, the Attorney-
General by written notice requires the
Commissioner-General to furnish such information
relating to the assets of such director, manager, other
officer or employee as is in the possession of the
Commissioner-General, the Commissioner-General
shall, notwithstanding anything in the preceding
provisions of this section, furnish such information
to the Attorney-General.
(10) Notwithstanding anything contained in the
preceding provisions of this section, where it
appears to the Commissioner-General from any
matter which comes to his knowledge in the
performance of his duties under this Act, that any
person has committed an offence under the Exchange
Control Act, or the Customs Ordinance, he may
communicate or deliver to the Controller of
Exchange or the Director-General of Customs, as
the case may be, any information relating to the
commission of the offence or any articles, books of
account or the documents necessary or useful for
the purpose of proving the commission of such
offence.
(11) Where the Commissioner-General has
under subsection (10) communicated or delivered
to the Controller of Exchange or the Director-
General of Customs any information relating to the
Commission, or any articles, books of account or

<!-- page 20 -->

19V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
other documents necessary or useful for the purpose
of proving the commission, by any person of an
offence under the Exchange Control Act, or the
Customs Ordinance, as the case may be, the
Commissioner-General or any other officer of the
Department of Inland Revenue may,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
preceding provisions of this section, in any
proceedings against such person for that offence
give evidence relating to such information, articles,
books of account or other documents and produce
or cause to be produced  any returns,  books of
account, other documents or articles he may be
required to produce in such proceedings. The
Commissioner-General or such other officer may
produce or cause to be produced, in court for the
purpose of such proceedings, a copy of any
particulars contained in any return, books of account
or other document, and such copy shall,
notwithstanding anything in the Evidence
Ordinance relating to the proof of documents, be
admissible in evidence:
Provided that the Commissioner-General or other
officer -
(a) may produce or cause to be produced the
original of such return, books of account or
other document in any case where it is
necessary to prove the handwriting, or the
signature of the person who wrote, made,
signed or furnished such return, books of
account or other document, but only for the
purpose of such proof;
(b) shall not in any case be compelled to produce
in court either the original of such return,
books of account or other document or a copy
of the particulars contained in such return,
books of account or other document.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Amendment of
section 83 of the
principal
enactment.
(12) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this
section shall be read or construed as empowering
the Minister or the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister to have access to or to examine, any records
or documents relating to the affairs of any person, in
the possession, custody or control of the
Commissioner-General.”.
17. Section 83 of the principal enactment is amended as
follows:-
(1) by the addition in the end of the definition of
“educational establishment” of the following :—
“(d) an institution which has entered into an
agreement with the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka under section 17 of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978,
with a minimum investment of not less than
rupees fifteen million providing vocational
training or practical training in the areas of
information technology, vocational training,
management training, skills development or
training for foreign employment, textile and
clothing, nursing, food processing,
agricultural plantation or industrial.”.
(2) in the definition of “Standard Rate” by the
substitution  for the words “specified  in the  Second
Schedule;” of the words “specified in the Second
Schedule, Third Schedule and Fourth Schedule;”;
(3) in the definition of “taxable period” by the addition
immediately after item (v) of paragraph (a) of the
following:-
“(vi) where any person registered with Textile
Quota Board or Export Development Board
as the case may be, who makes supplies to an

<!-- page 22 -->

21V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Amendment of
the first
schedule.
exporter registered with Textile Quota Board
or Export Development Board referred to in
paragraph (c) or (d) of subsection (2) of section
2.”;
18. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended in PART II as follows:-
(1) in paragraph (a),
(a) in item (i), by the substitution for the words
“eggs and liquid milk (not made out of
powdered milk or any grain);” of the words
“eggs, liquid milk (not made out of powdered
milk or grain) and powdered milk;”;
(b) in item (iv), by the substitution for the words
“aircrafts, helicopters and” of the words
“aircrafts, helicopters, pearls, diamonds,
natural or synthetic precious or semi precious
stones, diamond powder, precious metal,
metals clad with precious metals, gold coins
and “
(c) in item (vi), by the substitution for the words
“kerosene, aviation fuel” of the words
“kerosene, Liquid Petroleum Gas and aviation
fuel (effective from August 5, 2005) diesel and
aviation fuel  (effective from 1.8.2005), “;
(d) by the addition, immediately after item (xi),
of the following:-
“(xii)machinery used for construction
industry imported not later than
December 31, 2008, milk processing
machinery,   computers including
computer accessories, machinery, yarn
and dyes used for handloom industry

<!-- page 23 -->

22 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
and machinery used for rice milling
industry (effective from 23.12.2005)
which are identified by the
Commissioner General of Inland
Revenue under Harmonized
Commodity Description and Coding
System Numbers for Custom purposes;
(xiii) plant and machinery by a company, for
the use in a new undertaking by such
company in any District other than
Colombo and Gampaha as having a
capital investment of not less than
rupees thirty million and the other
criteria specified in section 20 of the
Inland Revenue Act for the purposes of
the Tax Holiday;
(xiv) media equipment or motor bicycles
recommended by the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of
the subject of Media and approved
by the Minister, for use by media
personnel,
(2) in paragraph (b),
(a) by the repeal of item (i), and the substitution
therefor of the following:-
 “(i) (a) educational services by an
educational establishment; or
Government school or  a school
funded by the  Government or
(effective from  July 1,2004) schools
registered with the Ministry of
education that followed the
Government curricula; and

<!-- page 24 -->

23V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
(b) public library service by the
Government, Provincial Council or
a local authority; ”.
(b) by the substitution for item (ix) of the
following:-
“(ix) goods or services funded
directly by foreign
organisations for the relief of
sudden distress caused by
natural or human disasters or
to any activity having regard
to the interest of the national
economy, as approved by the
Minister.”;
(c) by the addition, immediately after item
(xii), of the following:-
“(xiii) unprocessed timber logs, ships
or goods referred to in the
Third Schedule so far as such
timber logs, ships or such
goods are imported into Sri
Lanka;
(xiv) food products made out of
grains cultivated in Sri Lanka,
as identified by the
Commissioner General as high
protein and high energy agro
foods provided that
procurements of such grains
with backward integration
from out growers is
undertaken;

<!-- page 25 -->

24 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Amendment of
the Fourth
Schedule to the
principal
enactment.
(xv) services by Tower Hall Theatre
Foundation established by the
Tower Hall Theatre
Foundation Act No.1 of 1978
or Central Cultural Fund
established under Central
Cultural Fund Act, No.57 of
1980;
(xvi) sea sand.”;
(3) in paragraph (c),
(a) by the substitution for item (iii) thereof, of the
following:-
(iii)goods by organizations approved
by the Minister, where he is satisfied
that such goods are gifts from persons
or organizations abroad, or are out of
funds received from such organizations,
for the relief of sudden distress cau
sed by natural or human disasters,
or such goods being medical
equipment, medical machinery or any
ambulance.”;
(b) by the addition immediately after item (x), of
the following:-
“(xi) any ship;
(xii)  unprocessed timber logs.”.
19. The Fourth Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended as follows:-
(1) in paragraph (a) by the substitution for items (xix)
and (xx) of the following:-

<!-- page 26 -->

25V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Retrospective
effect.
“(xix) aerated water other than aerated water made
out of
(i) ginger;
(ii) nelli; or
(iii) ayurvedic plants,
cultivated in Sri Lanka; and
(xx) liquor including ethyl alcohol and other
spirits referred to in Harmonized of
Commodity Description Numbers 22.07 or
22.08 for custom purposes.”;
(2) by the substitution for paragraph (b) thereof, of the
following:-
“(b) the supply of services by hotels, guest houses,
restaurants or similar institutions in so far as
such services are provided for the holding of
wedding receptions and other receptions,
which includes the hiring of halls for the
holding of wedding receptions or other
receptions other than services provided for
the holding of professional conferences,
seminars or similar events.”.
20. The amendment made to –
(a) section 2 of the principal enactment, by section 2(3)
and (4) of this Act shall for all purposes be deemed
to have come into force on January 1, 2006.
(b) section 3 of the principal enactment, by section 3 of
this Act shall for all purposes be deemed to have
come into force on January 1, 2006.
(c) section 6 of the principal enactment, by section 4 of
this Act, shall for all purposes be deemed to have
come into force on January 1, 2006.

<!-- page 27 -->

26 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
(d) (i) the fourth proviso to section 22(3) of the
principal enactment, by section 7(1)(b) of this
Act shall for all purposes be deemed to have
come into force on August 2, 2005;
(ii)the paragraph (b) of the second proviso to
subsection (5) of section 22 of the principal
enactment, by section 7(2) of this Act, shall
for all purposes be deemed to have come into
force on January 1, 2006.
(e) the proviso to subsection (1) of section 58 of the
principal enactment, by section 13 of this Act, shall
for all purposes be deemed to have come into force
on January 1, 2006.
(f) section 71(2) of the principal enactment, by section
15 of this Act, shall for all purposes be deemed to
have come into force on January 1, 2006.
(g) section 83 of the principal enactment, by section
17(3)  of this Act, shall for all purposes be deemed to
have come into force on January 1, 2006.
(h) item (i) and (vi) of paragraph (a) of Part II of the First
Schedule of the principal enactment, other than the
exemption referred to diesel, by section 18(1)(c) of
this Act, shall for all purposes be deemed to have
come into force on August 5, 2005.
(i) item (iv) and diesel referred to in item (vi) of
paragraph (a) of Part II of the First Schedule of the
principal enactment by section 18(1) (b) and diesel
in paragraph (c)of this Act shall for all purposes be
deemed to have come into force on August 1, 2005.
(j) item (xii) of paragraph (a) of Part II of the First
Schedule of the principal enactment by section 18(1)
(d) (other than machinery used for rice milling
industry) of this Act shall for all purposes be deemed
to have come into force on November 16, 2005.

<!-- page 28 -->

27V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2006
Indemnity.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
(k) item (xiii) of paragraph (b) of Part II of the First
Schedule by of the Principal enactment by section
18(2) (c) of this Act shall for all purposes be deemed
to have come into force on November 16, 2005.
(l) item (xiv) and (xv)  paragraph (b) of Part II of the
First Schedule by of the Principal enactment by
section 18(2) (c) of this Act shall for all purposes be
deemed to have come into force on January 01, 2006.
(m ) items (xi) and (xii) of paragraph (c) of Part II of the
First Schedule of the principal enactment, by section
18 (3) (c) of this Act shall for all puropses be deemed
to have come into force on January 1, 2006.
(n) items (xix) of paragraph (a) of the Fourth Schedule
of the principal enactment, by section 19 of this Act
shall for all purposes be deemed to have come into
force on January 01, 2006.
21. Any person who collects the value added tax as
provided for in this Act, during the period commencing
August 1, 2005 ending on the date of the coming into
operation of this Act, shall be deemed to have acted with due
authority and such collection shall be deemed for all proposes
to have been, and to be, validly made and such person is
hereby indemnified against all actions civil or criminal, in
respect of such collection.
22. In the event of any inconsistence between the Sinhala
and Tamil Texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 29 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.