

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2012
1657
1657
wxl 1"773 - 2012 wf.daia;= 24 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'08'24
No. 1,773 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 24, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1660
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1663
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th September, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th
August, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts I-III and II of the Gazette No. 1,772 of 17.08.2012 were not published.
The catalogue of books printed quarterly in October – December, 2008 has been published in Part V of this gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2012
1658
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2012
1659
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2012
1660
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th Sep tember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
02nd August, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post  and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Mundalama Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Marriages for Mundalama Divisional General, District Secretariat,
Secretary's Division (Tamil Medium) Puttalam.
Puttalam W anathawilluwa Post of Registrar of Marriages of Kalpitiya District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Division and Births, Deaths of General, District Secretariat,
Wanathawilluwa Divisional Secretary's Puttalam.
Division (Tamil Medium)
08–606
–––––––––––––––––
Posts – Vacant
SRI   LANKA   RAILWAY   DEPARTMENT
Recruitment of Railway Sub-Station Masters on
 contract basis
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for recruitment of Sub-Station
Masters on Contract basis to Sri Lanka Railway Department for
the following vacant stations.
01. Cotta Road 09. Investment Zone
02. Arukwatte 10. Kattuwa
03. Pengiriwatte 11. Gallella
04. Udahamulla 12. Horivila
05. Baththuluoya 13. Anuradhapura New Town
06. Thelwatte 14. Neriyakulam
07. Navinna 15. Ihala Watawala
08. Kadugoda

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2012
1661
01. Sub-station Master's Duty Details :
The Agents employed in charge of the Railway ticket issuing
stations in accordance with the trans stopped at such stations, are
to issue Railway Tickets 24 hours a day, receive parcels, hand over
the parcels received to the rightful owners, remit monies collected,
to the Chief Accountant Railways, upkeep the sub-station and
carry out other duties as and when directed by the General Manager
Railways, will be the normal duties of these Agents.
02. Allowances .– A post that does not belong to permanent
cadre of employees. The selected will be paid a commission
depending on the income of stations and approved allowances only.
Whilst the minimum allowances paid with the minimum commission
of Rs. 310 will be not less than Rs. 5,329.
03. Whilst only males could sent in their applications, an
applicant could apply for one sub-station only. At instances where
applications are made for more than one station, the first sub-
station indicated in the application will be considered as the sub-
station for which the application has been made.
04. Age limit.– As at last date of the acceptance of the applications,
the age should not be less than 18 years or more than 45 years.
05. Educational qualifications. – G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects with 4 credit passes including Sinhala/
Tamil/English and Mathematics at one sitting.
06. Other qualifications :
(i) The applicant should be a permanent resident for a period
of 05 years of a place within a distance of 11km (Radius)
from the sub-station. Before issuing the letter of
assignment, the place of permanent residence should be
confirmed by documents ("Grama Niladhari" certificate,
Divisional Secretary's certificate, extract from teh voters'
register, etc.). Whilst the address indicated in the
application need to be the permanent address. It is from
this address, the direct distance to the station to be
calculated.
(ii) Applicants should be Sri Lankan Citizens.
(iii) Those at present serving as sub-railway station masters
or those who had served in such a capacity are not eligible
to apply.
(iv) Selection will be made after proven to be of sound health
condition and good eye sight. Educational qualifications
and good eye sight are compulsory.
07. Method of Selection. – Selection will be made on the merit
performance at a written competitive examination conducted by
the General Manager, Railways. Accordingly, all the applicants
need to answer two question papers set under the follwoing subjects
at this competitive examination. Minimum marks of 40% on each
subject should be obtained to be qualified at this examination.
(i) Language ability :
Duration - 01 hour, total marks 100
A question paper comprising of subject related
questions on correct command of the language and
understanding.
(ii) Intelligence Test :
Time : 01 hour - Total marks 100
A question paper of multiple choice question type set
to gauge logical, quick decisions through mathematical
problems, language sections, tables, matching records,
pictures and graphs including critical intelligence where
the answers are to be furnished in the question paper
itself.
Note :
(i) Out of those who are qualified at the examination, in
accordance with the indicated ticket issuing stations,
the applicant who obtained the highest marks will be
called up for  a qualifications examining interview in
order to appoint the applicant to the relevant ticket
issuing station.
(ii) No marks whatsoever will be given at the interview.
(iii) If the qualified had obtained equal marks, at such a
situation, an opportunity will be given to the applicant
who had worked an approved substitute under a
Railway Ticket issuing Agent or a Sub-Railway Station
Master, in such an absence, the resident closest to the
sub-station will be selected.
08. Conditions for Employments in Service :
(a) The selected are to deposit a sum of money as decided
by the General Manager, Railways or a minimum sum of
Rs. 25,000 as a security deposit and are to act in
accordance with the conditions of agreement entered into
with the General Manager, Railways. Violations of
conditions stipulated in this agreement will tantamount
to termination of service.
(b) As this appointment is on a contract basis, the relevant
contract needs to be renewed annually. If not renewed
the contract will be revoked.
(c) The selected applicant needs to obtain a training of the
duties for a period of 14 days relevant to the station he
will be assigned to a Railway Station named by the
General Manager, Railways. No allowance will be paid
during the training period.
(d) The selected applicant could obtain the services of service
of an assistant with the approval of Department of
Railways. No payment will be made to the substitute

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2012
1662
by the Department and the full responsibility of the
station will vest with the Railway Sub-station Master.
(e) During the period of training or during the period of
service as a Sub-Railway Station Master or at any point
of time or at the interview, if the applicant was found to
have furnished incorrect and invalid information his
service will be discontinued immediately without prior
notification.
(f) The Department is not bound to offer permanent
employment in the Railway Department to the applicant
selected as the Sub Railway Station Master.
09. Service Conditions :
(i) If some condition or several are violated in the agreement
entered into, the appointment will be immediately
discontinued ;
(ii) The applicant should agree to be subjected to, the
provisions and regulations enforced from time to time
by the General Manager, Railways.
10. Examination Fees.- All the applicants should attach a money
order to the value of Rs. 400 which is non-refundable made to the
name of General Manager, Railways payable at Maradana Post
Office. Payment of examination fees by other methods would result
in the rejection of the application. Incomplete and informal
applications will be rejected without any notification. The appilcants
to the examination should prove their identity at the examination.
11. Submission of Applications. - The applicant himself should
prepare the application on typing sheed size (A4). The applications
should be addressed to : The General Manager, Railways, P. O. Box
355, Colombo 10, indicating "Application for the Sub-Railway
Station Master's Examination – Railway Station Applied" on the
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. The
application should be sent under registered cover to reach us on or
before 21.09.2012 (the specimen form of the application is as
follows).
12. Certification of the Application .- The signature of the
applicant in the application should be certified by Principal of a
Government School/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/
Attorney-at-Law/Commissioned Officer in the Army/an Officer in
the Police Service holding a gazetted position or a permanent
Government Officer in receipt of an annual salary of not less than
Rs. 237,060.
B. A. P. A
RIY ARATHNA,
General Manager, Railways.
At the Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Colombo 10,
On the 02nd of August, 2012.
SRI LANKA RAILWAY DEPARTMENT
THE APPLICATION FORM FOR THE POST OF THE SUB-STATION
MASTER ON CONTRACT BASIS
01. The Sub-Railway Station, applied for :
(i) Full name :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(iii) Name with initials (in English) :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent Residential Address :
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––––.
(ii) In English :––––––––––––.
(iii) T elephone No. (Home) :––––––––––––.
(Mobile) :––––––––––––.
03.  Date of birth :
Age on 21.09.2012 :
Years : Months : Days :
04. National Identity Card Number :
05. District :
06. Divisional Secretariat :
Grama Niladhari Division :
07. Distance from your permanent residential place to the Sub
Railway Station, applied for : (Direct Distance) Mention in
Kms. :––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications :
G. C. E. (Ord./Level) :
Year and Index Number Subject Grade
09. Other qualifications :––––––––––––.
10. Language medium of examination (Sinhala/Tamil/English) :
––––––––––––.
11. Were you charged in a court of law for an offence ? If so, quote
full details :––––––––––––.
12. The original copy of the receipt bearing the No. ................
received by payment of Rs. 400 to the Post Office ......................

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2012
1663
has been attached herewith (Payment of Examination fee in
any other way causes to rejection of the application) :––––––.
13. Declaration of the applicant :
(a) I certify that all the particulars furnished by me in the
application form are true and accurate.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration is found to be false
before the appointment the candidature will be cancelled
and I am aware that I am liable to dismissal if the inaccuracy
is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
14. Attestation of the applicant' signature :
I attest that I personally know Mr. ............................ bearing
the National Identity Card No. .................... who produce this
application and puts his signature before me.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Attester's Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Please put the official frank).
08-604
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND
HOME  AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Post of Technical Officer (Grade III) of Sri Lanka
Technological Service to be appointed for the service at
District Secretariat/Office of the Government Agent and
Divisional Secretariats - 2012
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified Sri Lanka
citizens for the Open Competitive Examination held for recruitment
to above posts.
02. On the results of a written test conducted by Commissioner
General of Examinations, candidates who have proved their
qualifications on merit will be selected for appointment to the
Posts in Grade III of Technical Officer or Posts in Training Grade
in Sri Lanka Technological Service to be attached to District
Secretariats/Office of the Government Agent and Divisional
Secretariats under Ministry of Public Administration and Home
Affairs.
03. Age Limit.– Candidates should be not less than 18 years and
not more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications.
However, the maximum age limit will not be applicable for the
candidates who are already in Public or Provincial Public Service.
04. (a) Grade III :
Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should pass G . C. E. (O/L) in not more than two sittings,
in six subjects with credit passes for language or
literature, mathematics, science and one other subject.
(ii) Should pass G. C. E. (A/L) in one and the same sitting,
in three subjects including Pure Mathematics/Applied
Mathematics/Combine Mathematics and Physics.
Professional Qualifications .– Candidates should have obtained
one of the following professional qualifications along with
educational qualifications mentioned in 04(a) above :–
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by
University of Moratuwa or Hardy Institution in
Ampara ; or
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority ; or
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by
Ministry of Education and Higher Education ; or
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open
University of Sri Lanka ; or
(v) Successful completion of Part I of the Engineering
Examination conducted by Sri Lanka Engineering
Institute ; or
(vi) Other qualifications recognized by Sri Lanka
Technological Services Board as equivalent to above
technological qualifications.
(b) Training Grade :
Educational Qualifications. – Should pass G . C. E. (A/L) in
one and the same sitting, in three Science subjects
including two subjects relevant to the field and should
pass G. C. E. (O/L) in not more than two sittings, in six
subjects with credit passes for Language or Literature,
Mathematics, Science and one other subject.
Professional Qualifications .– Candidates should have
obtained the National Certificate of Technology (Part
time three year training course) relevant to the field of his
employment from a Technical College recognized by the
government with the afore mentioned basic qualifications.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2012
1664
* The candidates who become  qualified at the Open
Competitive Examination for a Training Grade in
Technological Service will be placed on the initial salary
step of the salary scale of Grade III after they submit the
certificate issued by the relevant institution to the effect
that they have completed the one year theoretical and
practical training according to the syllabus relevant to the
service and have passed the relevant examination.
* The apprentices who are unable to pass the examination
held at the end of the training, have the opportunity to
get their training extended for a period of not more than
06 months. The service of the apprentices who fail the
examination held at the end of the extended period will be
suspended.
05. Salary Scale :
(a) Grade III :
MN 3-2006 A under Public Administration Circular
06/2006 Rs. 15,005 - 180x4 - 240 x 6 - 320 x11 -
360x20 -   Rs. 27,885.
Candidates should pass first efficiency Bar Examination
before reaching fourth salary increment and proficiency
in Second Official Language should be obtained before the
lapse of 05 years from the appointment as per Public
Administration Circular No. 7/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
(b) Training Grade.– Monthly Allowance - Rs. 12,920.
06. Service Conditions :
1. This post is permanent and pensionable ;
2. Selected candidates will be attached to District
Secretariats/Office of the Government Agent and
Divisional Secretariats on the discretion of Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs ;
3. Selected candidates are liable to serve in any part of the
island ;
4. Selected candidates will be subjected to a probation period
of three years. Candidates who are already in public service
will be subjected to an acting period of one year ;
5. Selected candidates are bound by provisions indicated in
Establishments Code and Financial Regulations and
provisions of Public Administration Circulars, orders
issued from time to time by the Government and
instructions issued by the Department.
07.(i) Method of Recruitment. – This examination will be held
strictly in Colombo by Commissioner General of
Examinations on the supervision of Technological Service
Board in December, 2012.
(ii) Scheme of Examination :
(i) Examination will be held in both Sinhala and Tamil
media. It is not allowed to change the medium of
language applied by the candidate consequently.
(ii) Candidates should answer all question papers at the
examination in one and the same language.
(iii) Candidates shall be bound by the rules and ergulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination
for the purpose of conducting the examination and
they shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment
imposed by Commissioner General of Examination
for violation of these rules and regulations.
(iii) Subjects of the Examination.– Examination will consist of
two question papers :
1. Intelligence Test ;
2. Question paper on Technology.
08. Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence Test :
Duration - 1 hour - Marks 100
This paper consists of questions designed to assess the
candidate's capacity for critical reasoning' decision making
and analytical power.
(ii) Question paper on Technology :
Duration - 3 hours - Marks 100
This paper consists of questions designed to assess the
candidate's capacity on Principles of building
construction, for designing and understanding plans, water
supply, drainage systems, disposal of garbage.
The priority list for recruitment will be prepared on the
aggregate of marks by selecting candidates who secured
40% or more for each paper.
* Candidates are required to bring geometrical sets and
other necessary tools to the examination centre for
answering the paper.
09. Penalty for Furnishing False Information. – Care should be
taken to furnish correct information in filling the application form.
If a candidate is found to be inelligible, his candidature is liable to be
cancelled at any stage prior to during or after the examination, as
per the rules and regulations of this examination. If, during any
stage, it is found that a candidate has furnished false he will be liable
for dismissal from the Public Service. The issue of an admission
card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the
required qualifications to sit the examination.
10. Examination Fee .– The fee is Rs. 500. It should be paid at
any District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2012
1665
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The receipt obtained from the District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat should be pasted securely to the relevant
cage in the application form. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt with the candidate for future reference). Under no
circumstance will the fee be refunded. Money order or stamps will
not be accepted as examination fees.
11. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared using papers of A4
size (21x29cm) (normal half sheets) in such a way that,
(i) Para 01-03 appear on the first page  ; and
(ii) para No. 04 onwards on the other pages ;
(iii) Applications which are incomplete and not prepared
in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected
without any notice. Further it would be advisable to
keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure
that the application form perfected by him/her
complies with the specimen given in the examination
notice. It is essential to mention the name of
examination in English language as well, in
applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil
mediums.
(b) The completed application form for the examination
should be sent by Registered Post to reach below
mentioned address on or before 24th September, 2012.
Commissioner General of Examination,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
The words "Recruitment to the Post of Technical Officer
(Grade III) of Sri Lanka Technological Service - 2012"
shoudl be clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Any application
received after the closing date will not be accepted.
(c) A notification will be published in newspapers as soon
as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of
such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the
following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations : i. e.  certified photocopies of the
application form and the receipt kept at your possession,
receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to
which the admission card should be sent.
12. Candidates will be required to surrender any of the following
documents to the supervisor of the examination hall to prove their
identity :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport ;
(iii) Driving license.
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with as determined by the Secretary to Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs. Candidates shall be bound by
the general rules and regulations pertainign to this examination
mentioned in the Gazette.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
09th August, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF
TECHNICAL OFFICER (GRADE III) OF SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL
SERVICE TO BE APPOINTED FOR THE SERVICE OF DISTRICT SECRETARIAT
AND DIVISIONAL SECRETARIA TS UNDER MINISTRY OF PUBLIC
ADMINISTRATION AND HOME AFFAIRS – 2012
(for office use only)
Language Medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Grade applied for :
Grade III - 1
Training Grade - 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(in English block capitals) Eg. : PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 N. I. C. Number :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2012
1666
2.2 Permanent address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent (in
English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
2.4 Postal city :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year :    Month :   Date :
3.3 Age as at 24th September, 2012 :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 Educational qualifications :
4.1 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 Particulars of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.0 Technical qualifications :
Institution Course Duration Pass Certificate
followed No. and date
6.0 Other qualifications :––––––––––––.
7.0 If already in public serivce :
7.1 Address of Department/Institution :––––––––––––.
7.2 Present Post :––––––––––––.
7.3 Period of Service :––––––––––––.
7.4 Whether the post is permanent and pensionable or
temporary :––––––––––––.
8.0 have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court of
Law ? (Indicate "3" in the relevant cage) (Indicate particulars,
if the answer is yes)
Yes N o
9.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment was made :––––––––––.
(ii) Number and the date of the receipt :––––––––––––.
(iii) Amount :––––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
10.0 Candidate's certificate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnisehd by me in
this application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I agree so suffer any loss that may cause as
a result of any information not being completed and/or
any information erroneously being included here. I also
state that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false I am liable to disqualification before
appointment and to dismissal from service if the
inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examination for the
purpose of holding this examination.
(d) I shall not change any information mentioned herein later.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
11.0 Attestation of Applicant's Sinature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who
submits this application, is known to me personally and that he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on ................ and further
the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the
receipt on the applications.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting
the signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer, attesting the signature :–––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
08–742
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.