

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of  April 28, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 02.05.2017)
PANASOMA FRIENDSHIP FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Panasoma Friendship Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Hector Appuhamy,
M. P. for Puttalam District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Panasoma Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PANASOMA FRIENDSHIP
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS Foundation called and known as the “Panasoma
Friendship Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri
Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and transacting all matters connected  with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be expedient  to grant the said
application :
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Panasoma Friendship
Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2017.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the “Panasoma
Friendship Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate, with
perpetual succession under the name and style of  the “Panasoma
Friendship Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”)  and by that name may sue and be sued, with full
power and authority to have and  use a common seal and  alter
the same at its pleasure.
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Panasoma
Friendship
Foundation.
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Panasoma Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to initiate model agro projects in Sri Lanka in order
to educate the farmers the new Japanese Technology
and production of organic fertilizer;
(b) to increase the productivity and efficiency of Sri
Lankan economic crops by supplying agricultural
equipment where it is necessary to the young farmers
encouraging them towards the agricultural sector;
(c) to provide short term training courses to Sri Lankan
agricultural teachers in the field of agriculture in Japan
and taking step to provide them necessary instruments
and services in order to create model agro farms in the
same schools;
(d) to take steps in order to develop Maize related agro
products and encourage and provide assistance in
order to cultivate other kinds of grains;
(e) to introduce  new market facilities;
(f) to introduce Japanese technologies to formalize and
enhance the milk production and to expand the
production of organic raw materials for cattle feedings
and to provide necessary related services;
(g) to donate bicycles in order to facilitate the transport
need of the rural students, and to provide stationeries
for them, and to provide necessary facilities in order
to uplift the pre-school education;
(h) to obtain international supports during natural
disasters and other social services when nacessary
and implementing such programmes in accordance
with government regulations;
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Panasoma Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(i) to provide services and equipment to hospitals and
sectors serving in the field of medical services; and
(j) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment of
the above objects.
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1), the Corporation shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out without any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds
4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or any Provincial Council.
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of Directors
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specifled by the rules
made under section 7.
(2) ( a) The Board of Directors of the foundation that
holds office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act, shall
function as the Board of the Corporation until
the first Board is appointed or elected in the
manner provided for by rules made under
section 7.
(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be
appointed or elected within one year of the date
of commencement of this Act.30
Corporation
to ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
of the Central
Government
or Province.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Panasoma Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(3) ( a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or
elected for a period of three years and any such
office bearer, patron or advisor shall be eligible
for re-appointment or re-election after lapse of
the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the
death, resignation, incapacity or removal from
office of an office bearer, the Board shall having
regard to the rules of the Corporation, elect or
appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph
(b) shall hold office only for the unexpired
portion of the term of office of the member whom
he succeeds.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including
the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purpose of the Corporation and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind:
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;
Powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

Panasoma Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close accounts in any
banks;
(d) to  invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or conditions or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuties as may
be determined by the Corporation; and
(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by  the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act, or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and  fees payable by members ;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers ;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Panasoma Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
(c) the terms and conditions of appoinment, powers,
functions and duties  of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, or any sub-
committee  thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum  and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications to be a
member of the Board  and  the Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its objects and
dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be  amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like  meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall  at all time be
subject to  rules of the Corporation.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which name, address and other essential details of the
members be inscribed.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees of grants for an
account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or
more Banks approved by the Board to the credit of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
Register of
members.
20
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Panasoma Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
7
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of moneys
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under the Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms of
Article 154 of the Constitution.
(4) For the purpose of  this section, “Qualified Auditor”
means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited statement of accounts to the
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary Social
Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary Social
Annual
Report.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
the Auditing.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Panasoma Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
Services Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,
No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the
year succeeding the year to which such report relates.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and local
moneys received by the Corporation during the financial
year shall be attached to the report referred to in subsection
(1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold any property
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same.
14. The money and property of the Corporation
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of the
Corporation.
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Board who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
5
10
15
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Application
of money
and property.
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

Panasoma Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
9
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
similar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rules
thereof, prohibited from distributing any income or property
among its members.
(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the memebrs present.
17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Panasoma Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .