

<!-- page 1 -->

PAHALAGAMA  SRI  SOMARATHANA  NAYAKA
THERO FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Presented by Hon. Vijitha Herath, M. P. for Gampaha District on
June 09, 2010
to incorporate the Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero
Foundation
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATION  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
A
BILL
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
(Published in the Gazette on May 10, 2010)
[Bill No. 9]
——————
——————
——————
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
Short title.
Preamble.
25
2—PL 004923 —850 (06/2010)
A N  A CT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  PAHALA GAMA  SRI SOMARA THAN A
N AYAKA  THER O   FOUND ATION
WHEREAS  a Foundation called and known as the
“Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero” has heretofore
been formed  for the purpose of effectually carrying out its
objects and transacting all matters connected with the
Foundation, according to the rules agreed to, by its members:
AND WHEREAS  the said Foundation has applied  to be
incorporated in order to enable it more effectively to carry
out and fulfil the several objects and purposes for which it
was formed and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE  it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act ma y be cited as the Pahalagama Sr i
Somar athana Nayaka Thero Foundation (Incorporation) Act,
No.    of 2010.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter
be admitted members of the Corporation hereby constituted,
shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the “Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero
Foundation” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) conducting Dhamma sermons, discussions and
seminars;
Incorporation
of the
Pahalagama
Sri
Somarathana
Nayaka
Thero
Foundation
General
Objects of
the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero
Foundation (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) printing, publishing and distribution of Buddhist
books, magazines, journals, papers and programmes;
(c) setting up and maintenance of reading halls, lecture
halls, and academic institutions and study,
promotion and propaganda of Buddhism;
(d) organising and conducting of all activities for the
improvement of Buddhist culture and moral
development;
(e) to take steps to improve the way of life of the
Buddhists and to promote national and religious
customs and to improve the spiritual virtues and
social values;
(f) to take steps to save the younger generation from
social and economic hardships irrespective of
national, religious and/or ethnic differences;
(g) to conduct social service activities in accordance
with Buddhist principles and to encourage the
Buddhists to engage in such activities;
(h) to establish and maintain institutions for
educational and social service activities such as
childrens’ homes, elders’ homes, hostels and other
social service institutions.
4.   Subject to the provisions of this Act, or other written
law , the Corporation shall have the pow er to do, perform and
execute all such acts, matters and things what so ever as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise money, with or without security, to receive or
collect grants and donations, to invest its funds and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Committee of Management consisting of
the Director-General, the Honorary Secretary and the
Honorary Treasurer and not less than six other members as
may be provided for in those rules and elected in accordance
therewith.
(2) The member of the Foundation, Rev. Pahalagama
Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero shall be the Chairman of the
Board of Directors for life. The Chairman shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Corporation.
(3) The first Committee of Management of the
Corporation shall consist of the members of the Committee
of Management of the Foundation holding office on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, and whose
names are specified in the Schedule to this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the  Corporation from time
to time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law , for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of the office bearers, resignation or
vacation of, or removal from  office of office-bearers
and their powers, conduct and duties ;
(c) the election of the members of the Committee of
Management its powers, conduct and duties ;
(d) the procedure to be observed at, and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Corporation,
Committee of Management or any sub-committee
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero
Foundation (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
and of the time, places, notices and agenda, of such
meetings, the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereof;
(e) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) An y rule made by  the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law , be deemed to be rules made
under this section.
(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
take and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, lease or testamentary disposition or otherwise and all
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation
for the time being in force with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of a
member of the Committee of Management and the  Honorary
Secretary or such other person duly authorised by the
Committee of Management who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a
witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from or under
them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

Pahalagama Sri Somarathana Nayaka Thero
Foundation (Incorporation)
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AW ATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.