

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
975
975
wxl 1"761 - 2012 cqks 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'06'01
No. 1,761 – FRIDAY, JUNE 01, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 978
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 978
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th June, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th May,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts I-III, III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,760 of 25.05.2012 were not published.
Note.— Economic Service Charge (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of March 09, 2012.
Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka  of March 09, 2012.
Nation Building Tax (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka  of March 09, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
976
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
977
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
978
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd Jul y, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
08th May, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Hali-ela Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandiyan) in Yatikinda Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Rilpola Badulla.
06–34
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT OF  CO-OPERATIVE  DEVELOPMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment of
Co-operative Development Officer-Grade III – 2012
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who
possess the following qualifications for the Open Competitive
Examination for recruitment of Co-operative Development Officer
– Grade III in the Department of Co-operative Development. There
are 23 vacancies existed in the Department of Co-operative
Development.
2. Qualified applicants will be selected to the above post on the
results of the written examination conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and on merit basis.
3. Number of appointees and the effective date of the
appointment will be decided by the Co-operative Development
Commissioner/Registrar, Co-operative Development
Commissioner/Registrar Co-operative Societies shall have the power
to fill any number of vacancies or all vacancies.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
979
4. Salary Scale.- As per the Public Administration Circular No.
06/2006(iv) and dated 24.08.2007, the monthly salary applicable
to the Post of Co-operative Development Officer-Grade III, II and
I will be as follows :-
Rs. 15,005 – 4 x 180 – 6 x 240 – 11 x 320 – 20x 360 – Rs. 27,885.
Promotion to the Post of Co-operative Development Officer –
Grade II should be obtained before proceeding the salary point of
Rs. 17,485 and Grade I should be obtained before proceeding the
salary point of Rs. 21,045.
5. This post is permanent and pensionable.
6. Qualifications.- The relevant qualifications for the Post of
Co-operative Development Officer – Grade III are as follows :-
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Should be more than 18 years of age and less than 30 years
as at closing date of applications,
(c) Should be of excellent moral character,
(d) Educational qualifications :-
(i) Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in
one sitting, in six subjects with credit passes for
Sinhala/Tamil/English Languages, Maths and other
two subjects ;
(ii) Should have passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in
one sitting in all subjects (except the General Common
test) including at least one from the following subjects :
Economics, Accountancy, Business Statistics,
Business Studies, Agriculture, Combined Maths
(under the old syllabus three subjects in one sitting).
(e) Professional Qualifications :-
(i) Should have a Diploma in Accountancy or Auditing or
Management conducted by the Institute of National
Co-operative Development ; or
(ii) AAT final examination or any other equivalent
examination thereto ; or
(iii) Diploma in Accountancy or Management from a
recognized university.
Candidates shold have possessed all relevant
qualifications referred to in this notice on or before
the closing date of the application.
7. Examination Procedure :-
7.1 The examination will be consist of two question papers.
This test will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium. An applicant will not be permitted to change
later the language of the examination.
Marks Time
7.2 1. Intelligence Test 100 01 hour
2. General Knowledge 100 01 hour
Note.- Examination will be held in the districts throughout
the Island mentioned in Schedule I hereto. Changes will
not be allowed later with regard to the requested district.
In the event of a certain examination centre is not
established in a certain district due to insufficient
candidates, they are referred to a centre as per their second
choice and if the second choice too cannot be granted
they are referred to a centre closest to that district.
(i) Intelligence Test. - The paper will consist of 50
questions designed to test the candidate's ability in
logical thinking and analytical reasoning and ability
in determining. This paper will consist of multiple
choice questions and those for which sort replies are
required.
(ii) General Knowledge. - This paper will consist of 50
questions designed to test the knowledge of the
candidate on matters relating to National and
International Social Economic and Political
Environment and National and International Co-
operative vision and the Co-operative movement.
This paper will consist of multiple choice questions
and those for which short replies are required.
(This question paper is designed to test the qualifications and
ability of the applicant which needed to perform their duties).
Although this is a competitive examination, candidates are
required to obtain minimum 40% marks in order to qualified in one
subject. Candidates are selected on merit basis as per the total
marks obtained at the examination subject to the available vacancies.
8. Penalty for Furnishing False Information .- The application
should be filled very carefully and accurately, where any candidate
is found to be disqualified in terms of the rules and regulations of
this examination his/her candidature will be cancelled at any time
before the examination or while the examination is being conducted
or after the examination. If any information furnished by any
candidate is found to be false at any stage, he/she is liable to be
dismissed from Public Service.
9. Examination Fee.- The fee for the examination will be Rs. 500
which may be paid at any Divisional Secretariat or District Secretariat
to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner
General of Examinations. The receipt issued therefore should be
pasted firmly to the relevant cage of the application form. A
photocopy should be retained for future reference. The receipt
issued for examination fee should be in the name of the applicant.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
980
10. Application Form.- Application should be prepared on a A4
size sheet, and
(a) the cage 01 to 03 should be on the first page, and
(b) the cages 04 onwards should be on the other pages,
(c) when preparing the application the name of the
examination mentioned at the top of the application
should be indicated in English in addition to Sinhala or
Tamil Languages.
The relevant information should be filled in his/her own
handwriting. Applications not confirming to the specimen
application form and not paid the prescribed examination fee on or
before the stipulated date and incomplete applications will be rejected
without any notice. Any liability resulting from not completing the
application should be borne by the candidate themselves. Please
keep a photocopy of the application for future reference.
Further, the candidate should check whether the completed
application form conforms to the specimen application mentioned
in the notification of the examination. If not, the application will be
rejected.
Note.- In the event of a certain examination centre is not
established in a certain district due to insufficient candidates,
they are referred to a centre as per their second choice, and if
the second choice too cannot be granted they are referred to
a centre closest to that district.
10.1 The Commissioner General of Examinations will allow
all candidates who have paid the prescribed examination
fee and have submitted their applications on or before
the stipulated date to sit for the competitive examination
on the presumption that only the persons who are
qualified in terms of the Gazette notification have applied.
The issue of an admission card to sit for the competitive
examination shall not be treated as acceptance that a
candidate has fulfilled the necessary qualifications for
this post. When the candidates called for an interview
are found to be ineligible at the time of checking their
qualifications as per the Gazette  notification, their
candidature will be cancelled.
10.2 The words “The Open Competitive Examination for the
Recruitment to the Post of Co-operative Development
Officer Grade III – 2012” should be written on the top
left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application form.
10.3 Candidates identity should be attested by a Principal of
a Government School, Justice of the Peace, Commissioner
for Oaths, Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer in
the armed forces, an Officer holding a gazetted post in
the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent
post in the Government service with an annual salary of
Rs. 240,360 or above.
10.4 The completed applications should be sent under
registered cover to the address given below on or before
04th of July, 2012 :–
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
11. Sitting for the Examination.- As soon as admission cards are
issued to the applicants, a newspaper notice will be published by
the Department of Examinations. Candidates who do not receive
admission cards even after 2 or 3 days from the date of publication
of the notice should inform the Department of Examinations as
mentioned in the notice. It would be effective to make inquiries in
that regard from the Department of Examinations with the following
particulars : a certified photocopy of the application and the receipt,
registered post article receipt, your letter of request, stating the fax
number which the admission card should be sent if the candidate is
resident out of Colombo.
12. (1) Candidates are required to produce to the supervisor any
one of the following documents in order to prove their identity :–
(i) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A V alid Passport.
(2) Candidates are requried to produce to the supervisor, the
admission attested, on the day of the examination.
13. The issue of an admission card to sit for the examination
shall not be treated as acceptance that a candidate has fulfilled the
necessary qualifications for this post. All candidates are bound to
abide by the rules imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. A candidate who violates any of these rules is liable
to a punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
14. Any matter not provided for here will be determined by
the Co-operative Development Commissioner and Registrar,
Co-operative Societies.
15. All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the general
rules and regulations set out in the Gazette.
W. H. K
ARUNARA THNA,
Co-operative Development Commissioner and
Registrar, Co-operative Societies.
Department of Co-operative Development,
No. 330, Union Place,
Colombo 02,
15th of May, 2012.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
981
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION
iuqmldr ixj¾Ok fomd¾;fïka;=fõ iuqmldr
ixj¾Ok ks,Odß III fY%aKshg n|jd.ekSu i|yd jk
újD; ;r. úNd.h
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT OF CO-OPERA TIVE
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER – GRADE III – 2012
(for office use only)
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(write the relevant digit in the cage)
District District Number
1.
2.
* Indicate the District in which the applicant wishes to sit for the
examination as per the Gazette Notification. (See Schedule I for
Districts in which examination centres will be established and
their numbers.)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
Ex.– PERERA  A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(in English block letters)
2.2 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent (in
English block letters) :––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Male - 1
Female - 0
(Indicate the relevant digit in the cage)
4.0 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
Age as at the 04.07.2012 :
Years :         Months : Days :
5.0 Educational Qualifications :
5.1 Particulars of the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :–––––––.
(i) Year and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
5.2 Particulars of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 3.
2. 4.
5.3 Degree from a recognized university :
(i) University :––––––––––.
(ii) Degree :––––––––––.
(iii) Year of Examination :––––––––––.
6.0 Professional Qualifications :
(i) –––––––––––––
(ii) –––––––––––––
(iii) –––––––––––––
7.0 Have you ever been convicted by a Court of Law for any offence ?
Ye s N o
(If yes give particulars)
8.0 Particulars of the receipt for payment of examination fees :
(i) Office at which examination fee was paid  :––––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of receipt  :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :– Rs.––––––––––.
Receipt to be firmly pasted here
(Please keep a photocopy for future reference)
9.0 Certificate of the Applicant :
(a) I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge. I hereby agree to bear any loss resulting from
failure to fill any sections and/or, not correctly filling any
section and/or incorrectly filling any section of this
application. Further, I declare that all sections of this
application have been correctly filled.
(b) I am also aware that I am liable to be disqualified before
selection and to be dimissed after the appointment if this
declaration is proved to be incorrect.
(c) I agree to bound to abide by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
982
(d) I will not subsequently alter any particulars contained
herein.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date  :––––––––––.
10.0 ( a) Attestation of the applicant's signature :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................
who is submitting this application is personally known to me and
he/she has paid prescribed examination fee and the said receipt is
affixed hereto, he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on
................
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :––––––––––.
Full name of Attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Official seal should be affixed)
SCHEDULE - I
Towns in which examination centres will be established :–
District Number District
01 Colombo
02 Gampaha
03 Kalutara
04 Matale
05 Kandy
06 Nuwara-Eliya
07 Galle
08 Matara
09 Hambantota
10 Jaffna
11 Mannar
12 Mullativu
13 V avuniya
14 Trincomalee
15 Batticaloa
16 Ampara
17 Puttalam
18 Kurunegala
19 Anuradhapura
20 Polonnaruwa
21 Badulla
22 Monaragala
23 Kegalle
24 Ratnapura
25 Kilinochchi
06–88
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Examination for Promotion of the Officers in Class I of
Sri Lanka Technological Service to Special
Class – Y ear 2011(2012)
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the Approved Service
Minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service, the examination for
promotion of officers in Class I of Sri Lanka Technological Service to
special class will be held by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, in Colombo, on in the month of September ...... 2012.
Officers who have possessed a satisfactory service of four years in
Class I of Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the closing date of
applications shall become eligible for applying for this examination.
02. Following salary scale shall be applicable to the officers in
Special Class :
(MN-7-2006-A Step 4)
Rs. 21,125- 8x365 -18x500 - Rs. 33,045.
03. (i) Promotion from Class I to Special Class of Sri Lanka
Technological Service shall be in the following manner :
(a) 40% of the vacancies in the Special Class shall be filled by
the officers who pass the examination and possess 04
years' service in Class I and a satisfactory service as at the
date of promotion.
(b) 60% of the vacancies in the Special Class shall be filled by
the officers who possess satisfactory service of 06 years
in Class I and a satisfactory service of 05 years immediately
preceding the date of promotion on their seniority and
merit.
(c) In case where the number of approved posts in Special
Class is less than 05 the percentages mentioned in sub-
para "a" and "b" above shall not be made applicable.
Relevant vacancies shall be filled on the seniority and merit
of the officers.
(d) In case where number of the approved posts in Special
Class is five or above and the number of posts fallen vacant
in the year is four or less, the filling of vacancies shall be
made on the seniority and merit of the officers who become
eligible for promotion.
(e) The results of the competitive examination which is held
annually for filling of vacancies in Special Class shall be
made applicable strictly for the filling of vacancies existing
in the same year.
(f) When filling of vacancies under sub-para "a" and "b" above,
action shall be taken to fill the number of vacancies existing
under para "b" first and then to fill the number of vacancies
existing under para "a".
(g) When the officers of Class I of the Sri Lanka Technological
Service are promoted to Special Grade, the Head of
Departments shall take actions to include the marking
scheme prepared on the approval of the Public Service

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
983
Commission for determining the merit in relevant scheme
of recruitments.
04. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by
the rules and regulations prescribed by him in respect of
the examination.
(ii) The candidates will be subjected to the punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
if such rules are violated by them. Rules prescribed for
candidates are printed separately at the beginning of this
Gazette notification.
05. The specimen application for admission to this examination
is published at the end of this notification. Candidates are required to
prepare their applications in accordance with the specimen form and
officers in the Public Service should forward their applications through
the respective Head of Department and officers in the Provincial
Public Service should forward their applications through the Secretary
of PSC in the Provincial Council where they serve, by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pellawatta, Battaramulla on or before 02nd July, 2012.
The top left corner of the envelope containing the application should
bear clearly the title of the examination. Applications received after
the closing date of applications will be rejected.
06. Identity Cards.– Candidates should prove their Identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents
should be surrendered to the supervisor of the examination hall.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish
any of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the
discretion of Commissioner General of Examinations.
07. Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 in size.
No. 01 to 05 should appear on the first page. Applications
could be typed but they should be completed correctly
and legibly by the candidate in his/her own handwriting
and in the language medium in which the candidate sit this
examination.
When preparing the application, the title of the examination
should be written in English in addition to Sinhala on Sinhala
applications and Tamil on Tamil applications.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and
have not been duly perfected shall be rejected without
notice. Therefore, the candidates themselves should make
sure that the perfected applications are in conformity with
the specimen form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of
the application form with the candidate.
(ii) Candidates are not allowed to change the language medium
selected by them in their applications. If applications are
received in all three language mediums, i. e. Sinhala, Tamil
and English, the examination will be held in those three
language mediums. However, candidates should answer all
the question papers in one and the same language selected
by them.
(iii) Candidates who appear for this examination for the first
time are not required to pay any examination fee. However,
if a subsequent sitting, an examination fee of Rs. 500 should
be paid at any District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited
to Revenue Head 2003-02-13. The receipt obtained thus
from the District/Divisional Secretariat should be affixed
in the relevant cage of the application form.
It will not be allowed to transfer such fee for any other
examination.
08. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards along with a copy of the time table to all candidates
whose applications have been received. A candidate sitting for the
examination must get his signature on the admission card attested in
advance and produce the supervisor of the examination center. It will
not be allowed to sit the examination without such admission card.
As soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates,
Department of Examinations will publish a paper notice announcing
it. If the admission card is not received even after 2-3 days of such
notice, it should be informed the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pellawatta, Battaramulla furnishing
the following information without delay. (Telegrams - Examinations,
Colombo) :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of the candidate ;
(iii) Full postal address ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, registered number and
Post Office.
It would be useful to have the following documents in hand at the
time of calling Department of Examinations, i. e. a certified photocopy
of the original application form, receipt of registration and in case of
applications outside Colombo, the letter of request with the fax
number to which the admission card should be sent.
09. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have
failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in Para (08) above will not
be considered.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
984
10. Issue of the Results of the Examination.– In accordance with
the particulars indicated in Para 5 above, the results of the candidates
belonging to Provincial Public Service will be issued to the Secretary
of the respective Provincial Public Service Commission and the results
of the candidates belonging to public service will be issued to the
Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration.
11. Scheme of Examination :
(i) Examination for promotion of officers in Class I to Special
Class will consist of 2 question papers :
Aptitude Test - 1 1/2 hours
Management - 2 1/2 hours
Candidates will be required to obtain a minimum of 40
percent of the marks assigned to each of the subjects to
pass the examination.
Syllabus of the first question paper will be as follows :
All the questions should be answered.
Aptitude - Subject No. (1)
The paper will be designed in such a way that the
applicant's power of critical reasoning, analytical skills
and ability of decision making is measured.
Syllabus of the second question paper will be as follows :
Management - Subject No. (2)
(i) Principles of Management
(ii) Management functions
Planning
Decision making
The process of decision making
Organization
Staffing
Monitoring
The process of motivation
Leadership
Administration
The process of administration policies
(iii) Participatory Management
(iv) Management Environment
(v) Case study
This is a structured essay type question paper. All the
questions should be answered.
12. The decision of the Secretary, Public Service Commission
will be the final in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
13. In case of an inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English
texts. The Sinhala text shall prevail.
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
14th May, 2012.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For office use only)
E
XAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF THE OFFICERS IN CLASS I OF THE
SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE TO SPECIAL
CLASS – YEAR 2011(2012)
01. ( a) Medium in which the officer appears for the examination :
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
(Write in the relevant cage)
(b) Name with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
(in English block capital letters) Eg.- SILV A, A. B.
(c) Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in English block capital letters)
(d) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
(e) Official address (Admission will be posted to this address)
(in English) :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
(g) Sex :
(Male - 0,  Female - 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(h) National Identity Card No. :
(i) Telephone Number :
02. (i) Whether you belong to the Provincial Public
Service or Public Service
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Public Service - 01, Western Provincial Public
Service - 02, Southern Provincial Public Service - 03,
Central Provincial Public Service - 04, North Western
Provincial Public Service - 05, Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Public Service - 06, Uva Provincial Public Service - 07,
North Central Provincial Public Service - 08, Northern
Provincial Public Service - 09, Eastern Provincial Public
Service - 10)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
985
03. Department which you belong to :––––––––––––.
04. Designation :––––––––––––.
05. (i) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 01.01.2011 :
Years : Months : Days :
Paste the receipt of the examination fee of Rs. 500 firmly, if not
the first sitting. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy).
Receipt number of the examination fee :–––––––––––.
Office paid :–––––––––––.
Amount paid :–––––––––––.
I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and I
am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. Furthermore, I hereby agree to be abided by the
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on the conduct of examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence
of the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized
to sign on his behalf or Head of the Regional Office.
A TTESTATION OF CANDIDATE'S SIGNA TURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... is presently
employed in my office and is personally to me and he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on ................. 2011.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the attester.
Official Seal.
CERTIFICATION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragaraphs 01 - 05
above are correct that this candidate is eligible to sit for the
examination, that he/she is eligible to sit for the examination in the
language medium mentioned above that the stamps have been affixed
to the value corresponding to examination fee and the signature and
date has been placed.
–––––––––––––,
Signature and designation of
Head of Department.
Official Seal.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– A certified copy should be sent to the personal file of
the candidate and the other copy should be sent to reach
the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka prompty.
06–113

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
986
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2012
987
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2012
JUNE 01.06.2012 Friday — 18.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
08.06.2012 Friday –– 25.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
15.06.2012 Friday –– 01.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
22.06.2012 Friday –– 08.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
29.06.2012 Friday –– 15.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
JULY 06.07.2012 Friday — 22.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
13.07.2012 Friday –– 29.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
20.07.2012 Friday –– 06.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
27.07.2012 Friday –– 13.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 03.08.2012 Friday — 20.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
10.08.2012 Friday –– 27.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
17.08.2012 Friday –– 03.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
24.08.2012 Friday –– 10.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
30.08.2012 Thursday –– 17.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.