

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2426$22 – 2025 ud¾;= ui 03 jeks i`ÿod – 2025'03'03
No. 2426/22 – MONDAY, MARCH  03, 2025
My No. CI/1844
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT - CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Tal Lanka Hotels PLC - No. 25, Galle Face Center Road, Colombo 03  of 
the one part and the Inter Company Employees Union -  No. 10, Council Lane, Dehiwela of the other part on 19th March 
2024 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industri al Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments 
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 H. K. K. A. Jൺඒൺඌඎඇൽൺඋൺ,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
18
th February, 2025
Collective Agreement No. 17 of 2024
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 043895 – 18 (03/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 2A
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This   Collective   Agreement   is  entered   into   between,  TAL   LANKA   HOTELS   PLC,  a   duly incorporated  Company   
having  its  Registered  Oﬃ  ce  at  No.  25,  Galle  Face  Center   Road, Colombo 3 (hereinafter referred to as the “EMPLOYER”    
which terms shall where the context so  requires  admit, mean  and include  the  said  TAL LANKA HOTELS PLC, its  
successors  and assigns) of the First Part) of the One Part,
And
THE  EMPLOYEES  in the  Non-Executive  grades  who  are  member s  of  the  INTER  COMPANY EMPLOYEES  
UNION  of No.  10 Council Lane, Dehiwela  being a trade  union duly  registered under  and in terms  of the Trade Unions 
Ordinance No.14  of  1935 as amended  (hereinafter referred to as “Trade Union”) of the other Part.
WITNESSETH  and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
TITLE: This collective Agreement shall hereinafter be known as the TAL LANKA HOTELS PLC NON-EXECUTIVE 
GRADES COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2024-2025.
 1. Parties Covered and Bound.– 
 The terms of this Collective Agreement shall cover and bind th e Employer,the Employees who are members of the 
Inter Company Employees Union employed by the Employer in non-executive grades.
 2. Date of Operation and Duration.–
 The Agreement shall be eﬀ  ective as from the 1st date of January 2024 and shall continue  to be in force thereafter 
unless it is terminated by either party giving one months' notice in writing to the other, subject to the proviso that one 
party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party to c ommence before 01st of January 2026 and such notice 
shall not expire before 01st of January 2026.
 3. Salaries.–
 Parties agree that the basic wage of Employees covered by this  Agreement shall be revised  in the following manner:
 i. The Employees who have completed a minimum period of one ye ar in service as at 01st January 2024 and who 
are in service as at the date of signing of this Agreement will be entitled to the salary increase granted hereunder.
 ii. With eﬀ  ect from 01st January 2024 the monthly salaries of Employees will be revised in the following manner-
 • Employees who have completed 01year and less than 05 years - R s.3,000.00
 • Employees who have completed 05 years and less than 09 years -  Rs.4,000.00
 • Employees who have completed 09 years and above - Rs.5,000.00
 iii. Parties  agree  that  the  above  salary  increase  grant ed  will  cover  a  period  of  two  years commencing with 
eﬀ ect from 1st January 2024 and ending on 01st January 2026.
 iv. The next Wage Settlement will be due on 01st January 2026.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 3A
 4. Annual Wage Increase. –
 The Employer will continue to grant the annual increment follo wing the hitherto prevailed practice based on the 
Performance management system. 
 
Grade Percentage Using Bell Curve per Department
A+ 15% 5%
A 12% 15%
B 10% 70%
C 8% 10%
 It was agreed to take the number of no pays into consideration  when deciding on the grading of individual based on 
their appraisals. Increments will be paid on Basic Salary.
 Both Parties agreed to the above PMS bell curve. 
 
 No Pay : 01to less than 05 Days = 6%
 
 : 05 Days and Above   = 0%
 Special consideration will be made while awarding increments for those employees who are retiring in that particular 
Financial Year. (15% initially)
 Employees who are in the cadre as at 01st October 2023 will on ly be considered for the increments.
 5. Demands of a Financial Nature.–
 “The  Trade  Union”  and the  “Employees”  jointly  and  sever aly  agree  that  they  shall  not make any demands of 
a ﬁ nancial  nature or any request in respect of matters covered b y the   Collective   Agreement,    during  the    initial   
period   of   coverage   of   this   Collective Agreement  and shall not resort to any form of trade union action on such 
matters during the said period. (The period between 01st January 2024 to 01st January 2026).
 6. Loans.–
 The employer will disburse three loans per month to three empl oyees' subject to it being an emergency,following the 
practice hitherto prevailed and the amount of each loan shall n ot exceed Rs. 100,000/=. (Tax Applicable) Such loans 
shall be granted only if the particular employee seeking the lo an satisﬁ es the eligibility criteria introduced by the 
employer. It is agreed between the parties that an employee who obtains such a loan shall not be entitled to any salary 
advance or any other loan or ﬁ nancial facility from the employer until such loan is fully settled by the employee. The 
loan shall be recovered in 10 monthly installments.
 7. New Year Gift.–
 The employer will pay the annual New Year gift following the hitherto prevailed practice, depending on the ﬁ nancial 
performance and proﬁ tability of the employer. New Year  gift will be granted as per the company policy.
 7.1
 (i) Authorized no pay up to 02 months subject to Medical Certi ﬁ cate will be paid and if it exceeds more than 02 
months, bonus will be calculated on pro rata basis. Ex: 03 mont hs for approved no pay (bonus amount/12)*09 
months.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 4A
 (ii)  Authorized  no  pay  more  than  03  months  will  not  be  entitled  for  New  year gift amount.
 (iii) This  policy  (No. 7.1)  (i)  &  (ii)  will  not  be  ap plicable  for  those  who  are  enjoying maternity beneﬁ ts.
 (iv) For unauthorized no pay, New Year gift will be paid as fo llows,
  Ex: 01 unauthorized no pay- 10% will be deducted from the New  year gift 
        02 unauthorized no pay- 20% will be deducted from the N ew year gift 
        05 unauthorized no pay- 50% will be deducted from the N ew year gift 
       10  unauthorized no pay- 100% will be deducted from the New year gift
 (v) No deduction will be made for the New Year gift for discip linary grounds no pay.
 (vi) New year gift policy is as follows :
 (a) Employees who are in the cadre as at 31st December of the previous year will be entitled for a full new 
year gift amount.
 (b) Employees who are in the cadre between 01st January-30th J une will be entitled to 50% from the new year 
gift.
 (c) Employees who are in the cadre between 01st July -30th Sep tember will be entitled to 25% of the New 
year gift amount.
 (d) Employees who joined after 1st October and above will not be entitled to a New year gift.
 8. Salary Advance.–
 The Employer will continue to grant salary advances for employ ees shall not exceed Rs. 10,000/=. The salary advance 
shall be recovered in monthly emoluments of the employees.
 9. Death Donation.–
 The hitherto adopted  practice  regarding the Death Donation w ill continue.  In the event of a death of a family member 
of an employee, the joint death donation paid by the employer a nd employees to the employee concerned shall be 
Rs 150,000/- . In the event of a death of an employee, the Employer and fellow employees jointly shall contribute an 
amount equal to Rs. 300,000/- .The employer shall provide a veh icle to employees of the department to which the 
deceased employee was attached to, in order to attend the funer al. The employer agrees that the facility of providing 
transport shall be applicable for even in the case of a death o f a family member of an employee. (Employer - 40% /
Employee - 60%)
 10. Medical (Hospitalization).–
 Employer will continue the existing medical policy of the comp any and the employees are eligible up to Rs. 147,000/= 
per ﬁ nancial year.
 11. Annual Day Outing.–
 The hitherto adopted practice regarding the Annual Day Outing entitlement for staﬀ  will continue. Employer shall grant 
Rs. 1500/= per employee in monetary value within a ﬁ nancial year.
 12. Dispute Settlement Procedure.–
 The employees and the trade union jointly and severally agree not to engage in any form of trade union action with 
regard to any matter covered by this Collective Agreement.
 With regard to matters not covered by this agreement the emplo yees and the Trade Union agree to the following dispute 
settlement  procedure:

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 5A
(a) Whenever  there is a dispute, a written statement  of the d ispute should be forwarded  by the Trade  Union to the 
Employer,and at least two weeks' time given for the employer to resolve the dispute.
(b) If no satisfactory solution is found, the matter should be referred to the Employers' Federation of Ceylon (EFC), for 
the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute.
(c) If after the discussions, the matter cannot be resolved, th e conciliatory proceedings under the Industrial Disputes Act 
No. 43 of 1950 (as amended) should be followed.
(d) If after conciliation has failed in the Labor Department, t he employees wish to take trade Union action, written notice 
should be given of not less than 14 days by the Trade Union on behalf of the employees who are members of the Trade 
Union.
EOG 03-0023

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 6A
 My No.: සාගි/ව;=/01/2024.
 THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT – CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Kurunegala Planta tions Ltd. - No. 80, Dambulla Road, Kurunegala of 
the one part and the Inter Company Employees' Union - No. 10, Council Lane, Dehiwala of the other part on 19th October 
2023 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industri al Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments 
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 
  H.K.K.A. Jayasundara,
  Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, 
Colombo 05
18th February, 2025.
Collective Agreement No. 02 of 2024
Collective Agreement for Estates' Staﬀ  of Kurunegala Plantations Limited
(01st August 2023 - 31st July 2026)
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - CLERICAL STAFF
This Collective Agreement entered into between the Kurunegala P lantations Limited having its registered Oﬃ  ce at No.80 
Dambulla Road, Kurunegala of the First Part, and the Inter Company Employees Union of No.10, Council Lane, Dehiwala 
of the Second Part, made and entered into on the 19th of October 2023 witnesseth as follows:
 1. Title.–
 This Agreement shall be known as the Kurunegala Plantations Li mited Collective Agreement for Clerical Staﬀ .
 2. Employers Covered and Bound.–
 This Agreement shall bind the management of the Kurunegala Plantations Limited, whose name is mentioned as ﬁ rst 
part for and in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in clause 3 hereof.
 3. Union and Employees Covered and Bound.–
 This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid trade union,  hereinafter referred to as the union, and members of the 
said union who are employed by Kurunegala Plantations Limited on monthly contract of employment as at the date of 
signing (19th of October 2023), and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule I hereon.
 4. Earlier Agreements.–
 The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace a ny earlier Agreements in respect of these categories and 
shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being any dispute with regard 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 7A
to the existence of any other term or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by the Commissioner 
General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, if t he matter is not resolved the party of the Second Part 
shall not be entitled to take trade union action on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
 5. Date of Operation and Duration.–
 Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shal l be eﬀ ective from 1st August 2023 to 31st July 2026 
and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by eit her party giving notice of termination in terms of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 31st July 2026.
 6. General Terms and Conditions.–
 i. The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement  shall only come into force on the 1st August 2023 
and shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employme nt of those covered by this Agreement with 
eﬀ ect from the said date.
 ii. Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of  the Employer.
 iii.  Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under t he same employer, Administrative Oﬃ  cers upon 
completion of a Diploma or equivalent Qualiﬁ cation accepted by the management with outstanding performance 
shall be re-designated as Special Grade Administrative Oﬃ  cers with a minimum of one (1) increment.
 iv  Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer, Junior Clerk shall be re-designated 
as Clerk, with a minimum of one (1) increment
 v  Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what  is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to 
enjoy the same.
 7. First Appointment.–
 i.  No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agr eement unless he has successfully completed the 
G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic /Mathematics. This will not apply to those 
who have experience in the trade.
 ii.  All designation of new recruits should be as speciﬁ  ed under Schedule 1 hereof.
 iii.  Storekeepers are to be placed in a grade that is compara ble to those in the Clerical grade on salary applicable to 
clerks.
 8. Probation.–
 On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probatio n of not more than six months, subject to the right of 
the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further pe riod of three months at his discretion for reasons of 
unsatisfactorily performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in the 
event of the probationary period not being extended after the period of 6 months, the employee shall be deemed to be 
conﬁ rmed notwithstanding there being no letter of conﬁ rmation. During the period of probation or extended probation 
the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notice or assigning reasons therefore.
 9. Attendance at Work.–
 Unless otherwise speciﬁ  cally instructed by the Employer and such instructions not bei ng of a permanent nature, an 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 8A
employee shall present himself for work on every day other than  a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and 
at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for work throughout the normal working hours.
 10. Promotions.–
 i.  Wherever, vacancies exist, all other factors being comparab le, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers 
shall advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by  this Agreement may have appropriate skills 
and qualiﬁ cations to make them eligible.
 ii. Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and if he is conﬁ  rmed in the senior 
capacity, he will not be required to serve a period of probation.
 iii. Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity  for a period of more than one month, it should be 
communicated to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting A llowance of Rupees Two Thousand Five 
Hundred (Rs. 2,500/-) per mensem. When conﬁ rmed, this acting allowance shall be added to the salary.
 iv. When promoting an employee to a senior position, a salary increase of minimum one (1) increment shall be 
granted.
 v.  Employees who obtain a work related course certiﬁ  cate from NIPM or any other reputed institutions, as approved 
by the management, shall be granted special increments with reimbursement of course fee and to be considered 
for a higher position. Reimbursement of such course fees will b e as per the prevailing company policy for its 
employee higher education.
 vi.  Overlooking periods shall not exceed 6 months and during that period the employer shall pay the employee 
Rs.5,000/- per month as an overlooking allowance. This functional allowance shall not attract any consequential 
beneﬁ ts such as EPF and ETF. However, depending on the requirement overlooking period may exceed 6 months 
at the discretion of the management.
 11. Salaries.–
 1.  The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by  this agreement with eﬀ ect from 1st August 2023 shall be 
as follows:
 i. The present Rs.5,000/- (15%) paid as Monthly Allowance in p ar with the Public Enterprises Circular No. 
01/2022 shall be included to the basic salary.
 ii. With eﬀ  ect from 1st August 2023, the salaries of all employees in employment shall be increased by ﬁ ve percent 
(5%) based on last drawn salary (September 2023). Provided, however in respect of the period 1st August 2023 
to 31st October 2023 it is hereby agreed that the said increase will be regarded as notional arrears (without any 
consequential beneﬁ ts such as EPF,ETF,Overtime etc.) 
 iii. Employees under this agreement are eligible to receive bo nuses/incentives given by the Kurunegala plantations 
limited or under the guidelines issued by Treasury / Relevant Authorities.
 iv. It is agreed that any salary increases/Allowance granted b y the Government within the period of 1st August 2023 
to 31st July 2026 will be applicable to employees covered by this agreement.
 v. In the case of Stenographer/Clerical staﬀ   and Storekeeper/Clerical staﬀ  who are entitled to an allowance on 
account of work as a Stenographer or  Storekeeper as the case may be, such employee shall continue to receive 
his/her allowances at the rate of 12.5% of the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if 
the additional duties are not performed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 9A
in respect of this allowance.
 vi. In terms of the above salary revision, the salary ranges a pplicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule 1 
of this Agreement.
 vii. Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 (1) above, the Kurunegala Plantations Limited covered and bound 
shall pay the revised salaries in the month of August 2023 with arrears as per clause 11 (i)(ii).
 2.  STAFF QUARTERS
 (i). With eﬀ  ect from date hereof, Employees covered by this agreement are entitled to a payment in lieu of staﬀ   
quarters being provided to them, shall receive a payment described below.
Junior Clerk  = Rs. 1400/-
Clerk/Storekeeper  = Rs. 1500/-
Senior Clerk  = Rs.1700/-
Administrative Oﬃ  cer  = Rs. 1850/-
Special Grade Administrative Oﬃ  cer  = Rs. 2050/-
 (ii). Kurunegala Plantations Limited under take to maintain th e staﬀ  quarters provided to them on request of relevant 
employees.
 (iii). In the event of any person not occupying a habitable qu arters provided by the Employer such person shall be 
liable to disciplinary action.
 12. Annual Increment.–
 i. Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completi on of a year's service. The increments will be 
awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform 
date to all employees, in the event of an employee being conﬁ rmed in service within six months of the date on 
which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the 
following year.
 ii.  An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way  of punishment or for general ineﬃ  ciency, after 
the employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss  of increment shall be 
continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
 iii.  Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below to all employees in employment in accordance with the 
practice prevailing on each estate. (Each year January & July)
 Present   E ﬀ ective
  2024
Junior Clerk  Rs.350/-  Rs.450/-
Clerk/Storekeeper  Rs.400/-  Rs.500/-
Senior Clerk  Rs.450/-  Rs.550/-
Admin. Oﬃ  cer  Rs.550/-  Rs.650/-
Special Grade Admin. Oﬃ  cer  Rs.700/-  Rs.800/-
 13. Hours of Work and Overtime.–
 If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable  overtime which has been authorized by the Employer. 
Each hour of overtime work shall be calculated as per the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees Act.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 10A
 14. Weekly and Poya Holidays.–
 An employee will be entitled to weekly holidays on Saturday ha lf (1/2) day and Sunday full day as provided in the 
shop & oﬃ  ce employees Act. Payment for work on such days shall be remunerated at the prescribed statutory rates.
 15. Statutory Holidays.–
 All employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to st atutory holidays as provided in the Shop & Oﬃ   ce 
Employees Act.
Tamil Thai Pongal Day
National Day
Day prior to Sinhala & Tamil New Year day
Sinhala & Tamil New Year Day
May Day
Day following Vesak Full Moon poya Day
Holy Prophet's Birthday (Milad-Un-Nabi)
Christmas Day
 Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated accordi ng to the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees 
Act.
 16. Leave.–
 1.   Annual Leave -  Fourteen (14) days shall be granted as prescribed in the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees Act. All 
employees with more than 20 years service and Heads of Departme nts shall be entitled to three weeks paid 
annual leave as a special beneﬁ t. This right shall not extend to any employees recruited after 1993.
 2.   Casual Leave - All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with 
full pay, not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. C asual leave not taken in any one year will not be 
carried over to the next year.
 3. (i)  Sick Leave - Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick Leave will 
be granted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certiﬁ cate. For leave of three days and 
over, a medical certiﬁ cate from an approved Medical Practitioner or Government Hospi tal shall be considered 
necessary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a m edical certiﬁ cate as aforementioned, where he 
deems it appropriate.
  (ii)  In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, 
which he could use in the event of hospitalization, or a prolon ged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the 
condition however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 working days on that account. Provided however 
this facility shall not be applicable those who obtain payment on un-availed Sick Leave According to company 
policy at the end of each year.
  (iii)  In the case of an employee whose terms presently permi t a higher quantum of sick leave he/she shall be permitted 
to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him/her.
 4.   Maternity Leave
(i)  Maternity leave will be as per the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees' Act. Accordingly, 84 working 
days of maternity leave will be granted on a live child birth.
(ii)  Additional leave will be granted on half month's salary, upon employees request, until the age of six months to 
the infant.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 11A
(ii)  Paternity leave of 2 days will be granted to the father o f the child.
 17. Administrative Transfers.–
 i. Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling o f children or employment of a spouse, will, subject to 
the exigencies of the services and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management 
with one month's notice in writing.
 ii. Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on 
account of children's schooling or the spouses employment shall  generally be made at the end of the year with 
three (3) calendar months' notice in writing on or before 30th September.
 iii. Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL ex amination for the ﬁ rst time will not be transferred 
in that particular year
 iv. The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitt ed to Grade 01 in School will be considered.
 v. Transfers from one Plantation District to another, which ar e likely to cause hardship on account of children's 
schooling, or the spouse's employment will be considered.
 vi. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred , except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year 
prior to his retirement
 vii. Employees whose children are sitting for year 5 scholarsh ip exam will be considered.
 viii. The provisions of sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v ), (vi), (vii) and (viii) above shall not apply lo transfers on  
disciplinary grounds, but the Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each 
case.
 18. Age of Retirement.– 
 (i) Unless the letter of appointment speciﬁ  es a higher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years and will 
be applicable to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement
 19. Disciplinary Inquiries.– 
 (i) An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer p ending an inquiry on a charge which warrants 
dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of 
business need to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notiﬁ ed in a general manner 
of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
 (ii) An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disc iplinary investigation and inquiry, where the 
Management deems that such measure is necessary.
 (iii) An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show cau se' notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged 
against him and the employee shall be granted not less than sev en (7) clear working days in which to give the 
answer or explanation. Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a 
reasonable amount of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, 
other than in exceptional circumstances.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 12A
 (iv) If the Employer is satisﬁ  ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges 
and where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for w ork. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, 
the Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasona ble length of time and shall commence such 
inquiry within 30 working days from the date on which the expla nation to the 'show cause' letter is received. 
Unless circumstances prevent the employer from doing so.
 (v) An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to d efend him at the Inquiry. Such representative 
shall not be a professional. If the employee wishes to have the  beneﬁ t of a such representation he shall inform 
the Superintendent of the name of the person defending him at l east 48 hours before the inquiry is due to 
commence. The Superintendent may object to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may 
nominate another representative. The failure of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate 
the inquiry.
 (vi)  The Employer shall endeavour to give the ﬁ  ndings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 3 0 
working days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded un less there is justiﬁ cation for the delay. In no 
case shall tire ﬁ ndings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and 
except in the case of a pending criminal investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are given within 90 working days and the 
above exception does not apply, the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
 (vii) Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, w here the circumstances so warrant, terminate an 
employee summarily. In such event the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including 
the justiﬁ cation tor summary termination, In such event, the Union may a ppeal to the Employer or to the 
appropriate forum.
 20. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries.– 
 (i) An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a p eriod not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary 
inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct 
against him. Such suspension shall be in writing.
 (ii) Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in su b-clause (1) above tor any period in excess of one month 
shall be on half pay.
 (iii) The provisions contained in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) abo ve shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending 
inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Veriﬁ cations.
 21. Suspension as a measure of Punishment.– 
 (i)  Punishment for oﬀ  ences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension 
shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
 
 (ii) Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay  shall only be after a domestic inquiry
 22. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment & Disputes.– 
 (i)  Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add 
to any of the terms and conditions of employment except by mutual consent.
 (ii) Any employee enjoying a beneﬁ  t, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same 
as personal, but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the 
consumption of electricity, where a limit is ﬁ xed for all employees.
 (iii) Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement  shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner 
General of Labour under tire Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration 
thereafter.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 13A
 (iv) It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, coll ectively or independently, or their members, shall not resort 
to any form of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
 23. Duty Leave.– 
 (i)  Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, th e President and one other oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent Union 
will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
 (ii) Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the  President and the nominated oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent 
Union, as speciﬁ ed in sub clause (1) above, the Kurunegala Plantations Limited will attempt to eﬀ ect an amicable 
settlement between parties.
 (iii) By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer o f the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave in any one year.
 (iv) By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days 
each in any one year.
 (v) By arrangement with their respective Employers Branch Chai rman and Sub Branch Chairman of the Union shall 
be allowed twelve days Duty leaves which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries on condition that 
the total leave availed jointly by these two oﬃ  ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
 (vi) Duty leave shall be granted to employees selected by the union to attend seminars and workshops conducted by the 
union or any other labour related institute on not more than two occasions in a year for a period not exceeding for 
(2) days.
 (vii) Two days duty leave shall be granted to employees select ed by the union from each estate on the basis of one 
representative per estate to attend the delegates session bi-annually.
Pൺඋඍ II
   01. Amalgamation & Sub Leasing.– 
  The Kurunegala Plantations Limited covered and bound by this Agreement undertakes to discuss with Union 
to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/sub leasing of estates/divisions/
factories prior to such situations. However, Kurunegala Plantations Ltd will continue to be the employer of 
such employees.
   02. Electricity.– 
  Free electricity would be granted to members of staﬀ   on the following basis, irrespective of what they had 
been enjoying in the past.
    Senior Staﬀ   - 140 units
    Junior Staﬀ   - 100 units
  Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months  on the accumulated ﬁ gure at the rate that 
costs each estate.
   03. Kerosene.–  Employer shall provide 25 liters kerosene per mensem to those  employees resident on estates/
divisions without electricity.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 14A
   04. Death Grant.– 
 (i)  With eﬀ  ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ   member, the dependents will be paid a sum of 
Rs.200,000/- as funeral expenses.
 (ii) The dependents of the deceased staﬀ   member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months sal ary 
within one month upon the death of the employee and the balance  at the time the dependents hand over 
the staﬀ  quarters.
 (iii) If quarters are not provided to the deceased staﬀ   member, the dependents will be paid the sum equivalent 
to 3 months' salary within one month of the death of the staﬀ  member.
   05. Medical Aid Scheme.– 
  The Employer's contribution will be 10% of the Basic salary t o the medical fund. 
   06. Coconut Allowance.– 
  The Employer shall provide 40 Coconuts to members of estate s taﬀ  (including future recruits) at a cost of 
Rs. 1 per nut irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past. 
   07. Insurance Scheme.– 
  The employer agrees to provide a personal Accident cover insu rance scheme covering all staﬀ  members 
employed in estates under their management.
   08. Union subscription.– 
 (i)  The Employer agrees on the written request of an employee  to deduct from the wages due to such employee, 
the current monthly union subscription as speciﬁ ed by the employee to be payable monthly by the employee 
to the union and remit the amount so deducted to the union by t he following month, till such time the 
employee maintains his request.
 (ii) In the event of the union being representative of less th an 40% of the employees, no remittance in respect of 
check-oﬀ  would be made thereafter.
   09. Festival Advance.– 
  All employees will be paid a sum of Rs. 15,000/- interest free advance, before two weeks in respect of their 
festivals, which will be recovered in 10 equal installments. Any future revision will be on mutual agreement.
  INTERPRETATION
 Word Meaning
 Union means the union referred to as the Party of the Second P art 
  in this Agreement
 Dispute shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispu tes Act.
 Employer means the Kurunegala Plantations Limited.
 Week means the period between midnight on any Saturday and 
  midnight on the succeeding Sunday night

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 15A
 Year means a continuous period of 12 months
 Gender a reference to the masculine gender shall include the 
  feminine as well
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at Kurunegala on this 19th day of October 2023.


<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'03'03
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 03.03.2025
 16A
Schedule I
Clerical Staﬀ  - Salary Ranges
Present Salary Revised 
Salary Range
Annual 
Increment
Junior Clerk Rs. 32,800.00 Rs. 37,800.00 Rs. 450.00
Clerk/Storekeeper Rs. 33,000.00 Rs. 38,000.00 Rs. 500.00
Senior Clerk Rs. 33,300.00 Rs. 38,300.00 Rs. 550.00
Administrative Oﬃ  cer Rs. 34,500.00 Rs. 39,500.00 Rs. 650.00
Administrative Oﬃ  cer
(Special Grade)
Rs. 35,500.00 Rs. 40,500.00 Rs. 800.00
EOG 03-0024
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.