

<!-- page 1 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.08.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1981$33 - 2016 wf.daia;= ui 23 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2016'08'23
No. 1981/33 - TUESDAY,  AUGUST  23, 2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notifications
OFFICE  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL  COMMISSIONER  OF   MOTOR  TRAFFIC  (WESTERN   PROVINCE)
Registration of a Motor Garage to issue Fitness Certificate
MOTOR garages within Western Province satisfying the following qualifications and facilities are annually registered to
issue Fitness Certificate on behalf of commercial vehicles utilized to provide public services (Omnibuses and Lorries etc.)
Applicants should have registered their businesses with the Registrar of Business Names and payers of rates to relevant
local government authority and/or payers of taxes and charges imposed by government or Provincial Council from time to
time.
1. Qualifications to be satisfied by applicants applying for a Motor Garage of Grade “A” type
1.1 Facilities :
i. A pit of 20 feet long, 2 1/2 feet wide, 4 1/2 feet deep or a ramp or a hoist offering similar facilities
for inspection of motor vehicles.
ii. A Tapley Meter or Roller Brake Tester
iii. Equipment or a place together with a Board to inspect Head Lights.
iv. Testing Lamp
v . Key Sets for inspection affairs (including keys of every size according to standard sizes)
vi. Alignment Gauge.
vii. Electrical and gas welding equipment
1.2 Certifying Officer and Staff :
(i) Shall have obtained National Diploma in Technology or Junior Technical Officers’ Certificate in the
subject field of Mechanical Engineering.
                                                                          or
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.08.2016
2A
(ii) Shall have obtained complete Technical Certificate on Motor Mechanics awarded by London City
and Guilds Institute parallel to the course mentioned in above (i)
                                                                            and
Shall have obtained at least 2 years mechanical experience from a recognized motor garage.
(Persons obtained foreign training on Motor Engineering and persons with more than 15 years of
experience in Motor Mechanics at a government institution after obtaining the certificate in motor
engineering issued by the Ceylon German Technical Training Institute shall be considered for
exemption from the above requirements, depending on their qualifications.)
(iii) Certifying Officer shall possess a valid Driver’s License to drive heavy vehicles.
(iv) Certifying Officer shall be a permanent employee of the garage
(v) There shall be at least one manager in charge of the motor garage and such staff as may be required
2. Qualifications to be satisfied for a Motor Garage of Grade “B” type
2.1 Facilities
i. A pit of 20 feet long, 2 1/2 feet wide, 4 1/2 feet deep or a ramp or a hoist offering similar facilties for
inspection of motor vehicles
ii. A Tapley instrument to test brakes
iii. Equipment or a place together with a Board to inspect Head Lights
iv. Key Set for inspection affairs (including keys of every size according to standard sizes)
2.2 Certifying Officer and Staff
i. Shall have obtained National Diploma in Technology or Junior Technical Officers’ Certificate in the
subject field of Mechanical Engineering
                                                      or
ii. Shall have obtained complete Technical Certificate on Motor Mechanics awarded  by London City
and Guilds Institute parallel to the course metioned in above (i)
                                                     and
shall have obtained at least 2 years mechanical experience from a recognized motor garage.
(Persons obtained foreign training on Motor Engineering and persons with more than 15 years of
experience in Motor Mechanics at a government institution after obtaining the certificate in motor
engineering issued by the Ceylon German Technical Training Institute shall be considered for
exemption from the above requirements, depending on their qualifications.)
iii. Certifying Officer shall possess a valid Driver’s License to drive heavy vehicles.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.08.2016
3A
3. Vehicle categories that can be inspected at a Grade “A” and Grade “B” type garage are as follows  :-
V ehicles that can be inspected at Vehicles that can be inspected at
a Grade “A” type garage a Grade “B” type garage
Omnibus -
Private Coach Private Coach
Motor Lorry Motor Lorry
Ambulance, Hearse Ambulance, Hearse
Lorry Trailer Lorry Trailer
Special Task vehicles Special task vehicles
Tricycle Vans Tricycle Vans
The following documents shall be forwarded with the application :
(i) A copy of the certificate registering the garage by Department of Business Names Registration.
(ii) Copy of receipt by which rates/business Tax was paid to the relevant local government institution.
(iii) Rough sketch indicating the true location/road access to the garage from the middle of the town.
(iv) Qualifications of proposed Certifying Officers and photocopies of their certificates.
(v) WP 1 receipt obtained by paying the fees published from time to time as the non-refundable deposit amount.
Where location of the garage and inspection officer remain unchanged in already registered garages, it is not
necessary to produce above (iii) and (iv)
L
ALITH  W ANIGARATHNE ,
Provincial Minister of Roads, Transport, Cooperative
Development and Trade, Housing and Construction, Estate
Sector Infrastructure Facilities, Industries and Rural Development.
Provincial Minister of Road, Transport, Cooperative
Development and Trade, Housing and Construction,
Estate Sector Infrastructure Facilities, Industries
and Rural Development (Western Province),
No. 89, 4th Floor,
“Ranmagapaya”,
Kaduwela Road,
Battaramulla,
23rd August 2016.
09-250
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.