

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
675
675
wxl 1"659 - 2010 cqks ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'06'18
No. 1,659 – FRIDAY , JUNE 18, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th June, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th June,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... 676
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III, II and III of the Gazette No. 1,658 of 11.06.2010 were not published.
Tamil Version of this Gazette is printed separately.
The List of Veterinary Surgeons - 2009 has been published in Part IV of this Gazette in English Language.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
676
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Posts - Vacant
Amendment
Recruitment  for  the  Posts  in  the  Provincial  Public  Service  of  Western  Province
It is hereby notified that the closing date of calling applications indicated in the notification of recruiting for the followi ng posts in the
Provincial Public Service of Western Province has been extended till 30.06.2010.
Post of recruiting Notified Gazette
1. Recruiting for the post of Tax Officer Class III grade II
2. Recruiting for the post of Assessor Class II grade II
3. Recruiting for the Sports Officer  grade III
4. Recruiting for the Rural Development Officer Class II
5. Recruiting for the Co-operative Development Officer Class III
And also the section "a" of paragraph 3 of educational qualifications in the notification for recruiting for the post of Tax Officer
class III grade II should be amended as follows :—
"Possessing a degree from a recognized university of Sri Lanka or passing intermediate exam of the Institute of Charted
Accountancy or passing intermediate exam of the diploma course for Accountancy or Commerce in the Technical College of Sri Lanka.
and
Every applicant must possess a pass for the second language in the GCE (O/L) Exam as mentioned below.
* Applicants of Sinhala Medium - Tamil or English subjects
* Applicants of Tamil Medium - Sinhala or English subjects
* Applicants of English Medium - Sinhala or Tamil  subjects
The syllabus of the recruiting exams is as follows :—
Recruiting for the post of Tax Officer Class III Grade II.—
* General Knowledge - A question paper on General Knowledge about the Political, Economical and Social information
of Sri Lanka.
* Aptitude Test - A question paper on problems presented as Words Numeric Figures and Mathematical Problems.
Recruiting for the post of Assessor.—
* General Knowledge - A question paper on General Knowledge about the Political, Economic and Social information of
Sri Lanka.
* Aptitude Test - A paper prepared to judge the logical thinking, analyzing ability and power of decision making
of the applicant. (Questions on Words, Numeric, forms and Mathematical Problems will be
included)
* Comprehension - Declaring several sentences in a one sentence to test the way of understanding the meaning of a
text, summarizing and in addition to that questions prepared on a paragraph will be included.
V. RAJAPAKSE,
Secretary.
07th June, 2010.
Provincial Public Service Commission,
Western Province.
06-661
No. 1653 IV (a) of 07.05.2010
No. 1655 IV (a) of 21.05.2010