

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
SRI SIDDHARTHA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 249]
————————
Presented by Hon. Vidura Wickramanayaka, M. P. for
Kalutara District on 06th June, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on May 20, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Sri Siddhartha Foundation
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2—PL 007334—850 (06/2013)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Siddhartha Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 007155—75  (04/2013)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI SIDDHARTHA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as “the
Sri Siddhartha Foundation” has heretofore been established
by its members at Thalagala, Gonapola Junction, Horana.
For the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting
all objects and matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Siddhartha
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Sri Siddhartha Foundation (hereinafter referred to as
“Foundation”), or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Sri Siddhartha
Foundation”, and by that name may sue and be sued, with
full power and authority to have and use a common seal and
to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The objectives for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
(a) organizing and conducting of all activities for the
improvement of Buddhist Culture and moral
development;
Preamble.
Short Title.
Incorporation
of the Sri
Siddhartha
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Siddhartha Foundation (Incorporation)2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to establish and maintain educational institutes,
Hostels for male and female Students and to
advance and promote the education of needy
children;
(c) to grant financial aid and award scholarships  to
needy students;
(d) to provide necessary aid to victims of natural
disasters;
(e) to engage in social services;
(f) to provide medical facilities, nutritious food,
clothing and housing to the poor, the orphans and
the sick;
(g) to provide welfare facilities to the deaf, dumb and
the blind;
(h) to establish and maintain elders’ home;
(i) to engage in cultural activities;
(j) to promote the education of the clergy and the laity
by conducting courses of study in Sinhala, Pali,
Sanskrit, Buddhism and Ayurvedic Medicine;
(k) to conduct sermons, Buddha pujas, Chethiya pujas,
Bodhi pujas, Meditation classes, discussions,
seminars, lectures and tours;
(l) to promote the education of Ayurvedic and
Indegenous Medicine;
(m) to promote the mutual understanding and harmony
among the people irrespective of race or religion;
(n) to promote and maintain projects necessary for the
protection, management and preservation of
environment;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Siddhartha Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(o) to provide courses of vocational training to the
youths in Sri Lanka;
(p) to provide training in small industries to students
and to assist them financially or other wise to
become useful citizens;
(q) to promote and uplift education by establishment
and maintenance of schools and other educational
institution;
(r) to establish and maintain an Institute of Community
Development Education and to formulate and
impliment project in relation to Community
development;
(s) to establish and maintain branches of rural societies
of Sri Siddhartha Foundaion;
(t) to engage in any industry, trade or import and
export enterprises with a view to giving technial
knowledge to the people, to promote and carry out
agriclutural, industrial and commercial interprises,
to help and assist any person to engage in such
enterprises and to conduct trainng programmes and
to organize services and propaganda compaigns;
(u) to give aid by scholarships or otherwise to
volunteers and other persons engaged in the
furtherence of the objects of the Corporation;
(v) to establish and maintain libraries, to subscribe for
and issue books, journals, souvenirs and
periodicals and to provide such other services as
may be deemed desirable for attaining the objects
of the Corporation;
(w) to promote, organize and hold exhibition,
lectures,seminars, symposia, workshops, classes,
debates, conferences, tours, execursions or any other
activity in furtherence or the objects of the
Corporation;

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Siddhartha Foundation (Incorporation)4
5
10
15
20
25
(x) to co-operate and associate with other societies,
associations or organizations having objects similar
to that of the Corporation; and
(y) to do all such other acts and things as are incidental
or conducive to the attainment of the above objects
or any one of them.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power:—
(a) to accept grants or donations, from persons, or
bodies of persons in or outside Sri Lanka;
(b) to open and maintain current, savings and deposit
accounts in any bank and invest its funds in such
securites as it may think fit;
(c) to enter into and perfom, all such contracts and
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects of the Corporation;
(d) to borrow money for the purposes of the
Corporation, with or without security;
(e) to appoint such officers and servants as may be
necessary for the purposes of the Corporation and
to dismiss and take disciplinary action against, any
officer or servant so appointed; and
(f) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary
for the attainment of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The Corporation shall be a non-profit making
organization and shall function as such and no share of
profits or dividends shall be distributed among the members
of the Corporation.
(2) In the event of the Corporation  being wound up, the
assests remaining after settling the debts and liabilities of
the Corporation shall be utilized solely for the benefit of a
fund or organization established for charitable or other
Educational purposes.
30
Powers of the
Corporation.
Corporation
to be a non
profit
making
organization.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Siddhartha Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
6. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Management consisting of the
office bearers and such other persons as may be provided for
in the such rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall be the Board of Management of the Foundation, who
name appear in the Schedule hereto holding office on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be  received by way of
gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees
or grants for and on accounts of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the the Council may determine.
(2) The Corporation may create any depreciation fund,
reserve or sinking fund for the rehabilitation, improvement
and development of the property of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of money
to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation in
the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act.
8.  (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistence with the provisions of this Act or
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission
withdrawal or expulsion of members;
(b) the election of the 
office-beares, the resignation
from or vacation of, or removel from, office or,
office- bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Siddhartha Foundation (Incorporation)6
(c) the election of the members of the Board of
Management, and its powers, conduct and duties
and the terms of office of members of the Board of
Management;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of
Management the times, places, notices and agenda
of such meetings, the quorum therefor and the
conduct of business thereat;
(f)
the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule by the Corporation may be amended altered,
added  to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like  manner
as a rule make under subsection (1).
(3) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement  of this Act shall, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or other written law, be deemed to be the rules made
under this section.
(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
9.
All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, and subscription and contributions payable to
the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Siddhartha Foundation (Incorporation)
10.  The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation and it shall have full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Chairman of the Board of Management and  it shall
not be  affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except with
the approval of the Board of Management and in the presence
of two members of the Board of Management who shall write
and sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence, and such signing shall be independent of the
signing  of any person as a witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained, shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by from or under
them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
SCHEDULE [Section 6(2)]
Board of Management
Director General — Rev. Thalagala Sumanarathane
Secretary — Mr. K. S. Perera
Treasurer — Mr. P. H. Leelaratne
Other Members : Mr. B.P. Jayathunge
Mr. M. R. Karunathilake
Mr. Gamini Jayantha Abeywickrama
Mr. W. D. Abeysekera
Mr. Jayasena Jayakody.
5
10
15
20
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
The
Corporation
may hold
movabel and
immovable
property.

<!-- page 9 -->

Sri Siddhartha Foundation (Incorporation)8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .