

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1880$26 - 2014 iema;eïn¾ ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'09'19
No. 1880/26  -  FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER 19,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Minute of  the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service
The  following Minute on The Sri Lanka Agricultural Service is substituted without prejudice to any action taken or
purported to be taken in terms of the Minute on Sri Lanka Agricultural Service which came into force with effect from
01.05.2002 having been published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No: 1235/
21 of 08.05.2002 and subsequent amendments made thereto from time to time.
By order of the Public Service Commission.
T. M. L. C. S
ENARATNE,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
29th August, 2014.
01. Effective Date : This Minute shall come into force from 01.01.2006.
02. Particulars on Appointing Authority :
2.1 Appointing Authority :   Public Service Commission
03. Particulars on the Service Category :
3:1. Service Category  : Senior Executive
Executive
3.2. Grades  : Senior Executive - Special Grade
Executive - Grade III
Grade II
Grade I
MINUTE  ON  THE  SRI  LANKA  AGRICULTURAL  SERVICE
THE Gazette Extra Ordinary  No. 1877/52 dated 29th August 2014 published under the above heading should be cancelled
on the date that this Gazette  Extra Ordinary Notification is published.
T. M. L. C. S
ENARATNE,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
19th September, 2014.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
04. Task of the Service:
Generation of new technology and novel varieties through agricultural research and the ensuring of a sustainable
development in Domestic Agricultureand the promotion of extension and communication activities in order to
disseminate of such new knowledge to the farmer community and the relevant stakeholders and  to contribute towards
achieving the food security in line with the provision of high quality basic seed and planting materials of the recommended
varieties and other services related to the agricultural development.
05. Salary:
5.1. Salary Code : Senior Executive - SL-03-2006
Executive - SL-01-2006
5.2. Salary Scale : Senior Executive - SL-03-2006
Rs:42,390-1310x12-58,110/=
Executive: SL-01-2006
Rs:22,935-645x10-790x8-1050x17-53,555/=
5.3. Initial Salary Step in relation to the Grading System :
GRADE INITIAL  SALARY  STEP INITIAL SALARY (Rs.)
Grade III Step - 1      (SL-01-2006) 22,935/=
Grade II Step - 12    (SL-01-2006) 30,175/=
Grade I Step - 20    (SL-01-2006) 36,755/=
Special Grade Step - 1      (SL-03-2006) 42,390/=
06. Posts Belonging to the Service Category:
6.1   Approved Posts and Number of Approved posts (As approved by the Director General of Management
Services)
Posts Approved Grade Salary Code No. of Posts
Special SL-03-2006 05
I SL-01-2006 66
II SL-01-2006 99
II/III SL-01-2006 129
III SL-01-2006 544
Particulars of Posts belonging to the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service are indicated in the First Schedule. This number
of posts may be changed from time to time in accordance with requirements of the Public Service.
6.2 The Combined Cadre - 838
Grades III, II and I are considered as combined cadre for the promotion from grade by grade.
6.3 Nature of the Posts in the Service - Permanent and Pensionable.
07. Method of Recruitment:-
Two competitive examinations will be held for the Open and Limited candidates consisting of separate question papers
prepared in accordance with syllabuses specified in 01
st and 02nd appendices. (Seniority of Officers selected shall be
determined on the total of marks secured by them in the written examination.) The number of appointments made in any

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
year to the service shall be the number of vacancies which existed on 30th June of the same year.
7.1. Percentage of Recruitment (From existing vacancies)
STREAM OPEN LIMITED
 Agricultural Development 45% 55%
Agricultural Research 60% 40%
Agricultural Economics 60% 40%
Note:-
 1. The posts belonging to each of the above streams are as follows :-
Agricultural Development Stream :-
Assistant Director – Ministry of Agriculture
Assistant Director (Agricultural Development) – Department of Agriculture
Assistant Director of Agriculture
Assistant Provincial Director                                -   Provincial Councils
Assistant Director
Assistant Provincial Director of Agriculture
Subject Matter Specialist – In Service Training Institute - Bombuwala
Lecturer – Western Province
Assistant Director of Agriculture – District Training Centres -
 Horana, Homagama, Walpita, Ambepussa.
Agricultural Research Stream :-
Assistant Director (Agricultural Research) - Department of Agriculture
Agricultural Economics Stream :-
Assistant Director (Agricultural Economics) - Department of Agriculture.
Agricultural Economist – Western Provincial Council
2. Number of Posts under each stream is as follows - Recruitment will be made on the number of vacancies existing  under
each stream.
Agricultural Development  - 370
Agricultural Research  - 286
Agricultural Economics  - 17
3.  In instances where it is impossible to appoint the required number in accordance with the percentage allocated for the
appointment through the Limited Competitive Examination, the remaining number of vacancies shall also be filled
through Open Competitive Examination.
7.2 Open Recruitment:
7.2.1. Recruitment Grade: -    Grade III of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service
Note: -An applicant shall be allowed to apply for one or more than one stream out of the streams of Agricultural
Development, Agricultural Research and Agricultural Economics.
}
10 – G  20278

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
7.2.2. Qualifications:-
7.2.2.1. Educational Qualifications:-
7.2.2.1.1. For streams of Agricultural Development and Agricultural Economics.
Four year Degree in Agricultural Science obtained from an  University recognized
by the  University Grants Commission
or
Four year Degree in Bachelor of Science in  Agricultural Technology Management
obtained from an  University recognized by the University Grants Commission.
7.2.2.1.2. For stream of Agricultural Research.
Four year Degree in Agricultural Science obtained from an  University  recognized
by the   University Grants Commission.
or
Four year Science Degree in Botany,  Chemistry or Zoology obtained from an
University recognized by the University  Grants Commission.
or
Four year Degree in Bachelor of Science in  Agricultural Technology Management
obtained from an  University recognized by the University Grants Commission.
7.2.2.2. Professional Qualifications: - Inapplicable.
7.2.2.3. Experience: - Inapplicable.
7.2.2.4. Physical Requirements: - Every applicant shall be physically and mentally fit in
every respect to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
7.2.2.5. Other :-
(I) Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka.
(II) Must be of excellent moral character.
(III) An applicant is eligible to sit the Open Competitive Examination only thrice.
(IV) Every applicant shall fulfill the prescribed qualifications as at the closing date
of applications, specified in the notification.
7.2.3 Age:-
7.2.3.1 Minimum Age limit: -   22 years
7.2.3.2. Maximum Age limit: -   30 years
7.2.4. Method of Recruitment:
7.2.4.1 Written Examination:
SUBJECTS MAXIMUM P ASS MARKS
MARKS  (MINIMUM)
Intelligence Test Paper 100 40
Subject Matter Paper (In accordance with
the relevant post the syllabus is given in
the first appendix) 100 40

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
7.2.4.1.1. The Authority of Conducting Examinations :  Commissioner General of Examinations
7.2.4.2. Professional Test : Inapplicable
7.2.4.3. Structured Interview : Inapplicable
7.2.4.4. General Interview : Marks will not be awarded
Expected Purposes: Scrutinizing of the fulfillment of   qualifications prescribed in the Gazette
Notification  which will be published in terms of the Minute on the Sri Lanka Agricultural
Service and the examination of physical fitness.
Note: - Based on the order of the highest number of  the aggregate of marks secured in the subject matter paper and
intelligence test paper prescribed in the first appendix, a  number of candidates not  exceeding twice the number of
vacancies out of the applicants who have secured 40% or more marks for every prescribed question paper shall be
called for an interview. Upon scrutinizing of qualifications of  the applicants by the board of interview, recruitment  to
the vacancies shall be made in order of the maximum aggregate of  marks secured in the subject matter paper  and
intelligence test paper from amongst applicants whose qualifications have been proved.
7.2.4.4.1. Appointing Authority of The General Board of Interview:-
The Public Service Commission.
7.2.4.4.2. In open recruitment, in the event of an applicant has secured sufficient marks  for the
selection of  more than one scheduled posts having applied for one or more of such
posts,  recruitment shall be made taking into account the options of the  applicant and
the number of  vacancies, as the case may be. The applicant shall express his/ her
option in writing at the  interview  and he/she shall not be allowed to change it later.
7.2.5. Method of Calling Application :-
By publishing in the Government Gazette.
7.3. Limited Recruitment:-
7.3.1 Recruitment Grade:-
Grade III of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service.
7.3.2. Qualifications:
7.3.2.1. Basic Qualifications for Limited Recruitments.
7.3.2.1.1. For stream of Agricultural Development.
(a) An officer who holds a post of Agricultural Instructor in Special Class of the Sri Lanka Technological
Service.
or
(b) An officer who holds a post of Agricultural Instructor and has completed at least 04 years active
and satisfactory period of service in Class I of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
or
    (c)     An officer who has fulfilled the qualifications prescribed in above 7.2.2.1.1 and has completed
            05 years active and satisfactory period of service in the field of agriculture, viz. Agricultural

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
        Research,  Agricultural Development or Agricultural Economics while
       serving in a post of Associate Officer Service category.
or
(d) An Officer who holds a post of  Garden Assistant and has completed 10
years active and satisfactory period of service
or
(e) An Officer who holds a post of Agricultural Instructor or Garden Assistant
possessing a degree in Agricultural Science or Science and has completed
05 years active and satisfactory period of service.
7.3.2.1.2. For stream of Agricultural Economics:
(a) An officer who holds a post of Economist Assistant and has completed 05
years active and satisfactory period of service
or
(b) An officer who has fulfilled the qualifications prescribed in above 7.2.2.1.1.
and has completed 05 years active and satisfactory period of  service in the
field of Agriculture, viz.  Agricultural Research, Agricultural Development
or Agricultural Economics while serving in a post of Associate Officer
Service Category.
7.3.2.1.3. For stream of Agricultural Research :
 (a) An officer who holds a post of Research Assistant, Soil Surveyor or Land
Evaluation Officer in Special Class of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
or
(b) An officer who holds a post of Research Assistant, Soil Surveyor or Land
Evaluation Officer and has completed a minimum  period of 04 years active
and satisfactory service in Class I of the Sri Lanka Technological Service
or
(c) An officer who has fulfilled the qualifications prescribed in above 7.2.2.1.2
and has completed 05 years active and satisfactory period of service in the
field of Agriculture, viz . Agricultural Research, Agricultural Development
or Agricultural Economics while serving in a post of Associate Officer
Service category.
or
(d) An officer who holds a post of Research Assistant, Soil Surveyor or Land
Evaluation Officer possessing a degree in Agricultural Science or Science
and has completed a period of 05 years active and satisfactory service.
Note : 1. Officers holding the posts in associate officer service category should apply only under one
stream from among Agricultural Development, Agricultural Economics or Agricultural Research
streams.
2. In terms of the decision of the Supreme Court Application No. 61/ 2006, officers holding a
post of Agriculture Monitoring Officer or Program Assistant (Agriculture) who have completed
five years of active service having held a post of Agriculture Monitoring Officers or Program
Assistants (Agriculture) as at 04.11.2009 as set out in the Minutes on the Sri Lanka Agricultural
Service as amended by the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1691/25 of 18.09.2009 will also be
eligible to apply for the limited requirement.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
These officers will be able to apply for limited recruitment only under one stream from among
Agricultural Development or Agricultural Economics or Agricultural Research.
7.3.2.2. Physical Requirements:
Every applicant shall be physically and mentally fit in every respect to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka.
7.3.2.3. Other:-
I. Candidates shall be of excellent moral character.
II. Shall fulfill the required qualifications on or before the date specified in the
notification of calling applications.
III. Concessions or promotions granted to a candidate with retrospective effect,
subsequent to the date specified in the notification of calling applications shall not
be reckoned as being fulfilled the prescribed qualifications for the examination.
IV . Should have completed the period of satisfactory service over the immediately
preceding 05 years.
7.3.3    Method of Recruitment:
7.3.3.1. Written Examination:
In the Limited Examination, the question paper to assess the knowledge of the subject matter will be
prepared placing more focus on the field experiences (vide. Second Appendix)
SUBJECTS     MAXIMUM  MARKS PASS  MARKS
(MINIMUM)
Intelligence Test Paper 100 40
Subject Matter Paper (In accordance with
the relevant post - The syllabus is given
 in the second appendix.) 100 40
7.3.3.1.1 The Authority of conducting Examinations :  Commissioner General of Examinations
7.3.3.2 Professional Test: Inapplicable
7.3.3.3 Structured Interview: (Marks will be awarded for seniority and basic qualifications will be
scrutinized)
(a) Applicants shall answer the intelligence test paper and the relevant subject matter question
paper as prescribed in the second appendix for each post referred to in sub-Para 7.1 above.
(b) Applicants who have secured 40% or more marks in all two prescribed question papers
shall only be called for the interview.
(c) Documents and certificates in proof of the basic qualifications of the applicants will also be
examined at the interview.
(d) Recruitments shall be made in order of the highest aggregate of marks arrived at after
adding the total number of marks secured for the prescribed question papers in the limited
competitive examination and the number of marks awarded for seniority.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Method of Awarding Marks for Seniority at the Interview:
The period of active service of an applicant with effect from the date of fulfillment of prescribed
qualifications up to the closing date of applications shall only be reckoned for the purpose of awarding
marks for seniority. Subject to a maximum of 30 marks, at a rate of two (02) marks for each year of such
period of active service and at a rate of one (01) mark for a period of service beyond 180 days or more
shall be awarded.
7.3.3.3.1  Appointing Authority of the Structured Interview Board :  The Public Service Commission
7.3.3.4  General Interview : Inapplicable
7.3.4. Method of Calling Applications:
By publishing in the Government Gazette and by way of Public notices and through the
Web-Site.
08. Efficiency Bar:
WHICH EFFICIENCY THE NUMBER OF  YEARS NA TURE OF THE
BAR  ALLOWED TO PASS OVER EFFICIENCY BAR
THE EFFICIENCY BAR  (WRITTEN/  PROFESSIONAL
 CERTIFICATE COURSES / OTHER)
1
st Efficiency Bar  Before three (03) years from the Written
date of appointment to Grade III. (V ide. Third Appendix)
2nd Efficiency Bar  Before three (03) years from the Written
date of promotion to Grade II. (V ide. Fourth Appendix )
3rd Efficiency Bar  Before five (05) years from the A written Research
date of  promotion to Grade I. Thesis(Vide.Fifth Appendix)
8.1.  Efficiency bar examination should be completed before the expiration of the prescribed number of years.
8.2. The Frequency of Conducting Efficiency Bar Examination:
Twice a year.
8.3. The Authorities of Conducting the Efficiency Bar Examinations:
(a) First Efficiency Bar Examination:-
* Paper I and II (Finances and Administration)  By Commissioner General of Examinations or an
institution Approved by the Public Service Commission.
* Paper III (Organization of Agriculture in Sri Lanka)
By Director General of Agriculture
(b) Second Efficiency Bar Examination (Agricultural Science):-
By Director General of Agriculture
(c) Third Efficiency Bar Examination:-
By the Committee mentioned in the fifth appendix

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
9. Proficiency in Language:-
9.1
LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY TO BE OBTAINED
Official Language Officers who have entered the service in a language other than official languages
shall acquire proficiency in an official language before confirmation in the service.
Other Official Language The relevant level of proficiency should be obtained as per the Public
Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and the Circulars incidental thereto.
10.Promotion to Grades:
This consists of a promotional scheme based on performance appraisal as  follows.
10.1. Promotions from Grade III to Grade II
10.1.1. According to General Performance
10.1.1.1. Requirements to be satisfied:
I. Should be confirmed in the Post.
II. Should have completed at least a period of ten (10) years active and satisfactory in
grade III of the service category and earned on the due dates all 10 increments falling
due during this period.
III. Should have obtained ratings “satisfactory” or “above satisfactory” in annual
performance appraisal reports in accordance with the approved procedure for
performance appraisal during the period of 10 years prior to the date of his/her becoming
eligible for promotion.
IV . Should have completed a period of five (05) years satisfactory service immediately
preceding the date his/her becoming eligible for promotion.
V. Should have obtained the relevant level of proficiency in other official language.
VI. Should have completed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examinations on the due dates.
10.1.1.2   Scheme of Promotion:
Where the officers who have fulfilled the prescribed qualifications submit an application on
the prescribed form to the Appointing Authority, the Appointing Authority will grant promotions
after scrutinizing the qualifications, with effect from the date of his/her becoming eligible for
promotion to Grade II. The relevant application form is given in the sixth appendix.
10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1. Requirements to be satisfied:
(I) Should have completed a period of seven (07) years of active and satisfactory service in Grade II of the
service category and earned on the due dates all seven (07) increments fallings due during this period.
(II) Should have passed the second Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.
(III) Should have completed a period of five (05) years satisfactory service immediately  proceeding to the
date of becoming eligible for promotion.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
(IV) Should have obtained ratings “satisfactory” or “above satisfactory” in the annual performance appraisal
reports in accordance with the approved procedure for performance appraisal during the period of
seven (07) years immediately preceding the date of his/her becoming eligible for promotion.
(V) Should have obtained a Master of Science (M.Sc.) degree of one year duration or an equivalent or
higher a post graduate qualification recognized by the Committee of the Department of Agriculture
(Vide. Fifth Appendix) deciding on the post graduate qualifications.
10.2.2. Method of Promotion :
Where officers who have fulfilled the prescribed qualifications make a request to the Appointing
Authority, he will subsequent to the scrutinizing of the qualifications, grant promotions to Grade I with
effect from the date of the officer becoming eligible for promotion. The relevant application is given in
the sixth appendix.
10.3. Promotion from Grade I to Special Grade:
10.3.1. Requirements to be satisfied:
I. Should have obtained a Post Graduate Degree in the relevant field.
II. Should have completed a period of five (05) years active and satisfactory service in Grade I of the
Sri Lanka Agricultural Service and earned five (05) salary increments after the promotion to
Grade I.
III. Should have completed a period not less than eighteen years (18) of active service in the Sri Lanka
Agricultural Service on the date his/her becoming eligible for promotion.
IV . Should have achieved ratings “satisfactory” or “above satisfactory” in the annual performance
appraisal  reports during a period of five (05) years immediately preceding the date of  his/her
becoming eligible for the promotion.
V. Should have completed satisfactory service during the period of five (05) years immediately
preceding the date of his/her becoming eligible for promotion and not been subjected to disciplinary
punishment.
VI. Should have completed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.
10.3.2. Method of Promotion :
  A number of Officers, not more than thrice the number of vacancies will be called for the interview in the
order of seniority of the Officers in Class I. Marks will be awarded at the structured interview in
accordance with the marking scheme approved by the Public Service Commission after assessment of
the fulfillment of all above qualifications by an Interview Board appointed by the Public Service
Commission. Existing vacancies will be filled based on the order of the merit marks.
Note :-
In the event of promoting in accordance with general level performance, the date of promotion of the Officers who
have not passed the Efficiency Bar on the due date should be delayed by a period equal to their period of being delayed to
pass the Efficiency Bar concerned.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
\11.Appointment to Posts:
 11.1
DESIGNA TION INSTITUTE QUALIFICATIONS
Additional Secretary Ministry of Agriculture An officer of Special Grade in
Director General of Agriculture Department of Agriculture the Sri Lanka Agricultural
Additional Director General (Research) Department of Agriculture Service
Additional Director General (Development) Department of Agriculture
District Director of Agriculture Ministry of Agriculture  An officer of Grade I in the Sri
Director of Agriculture Ministry of Agriculture  Lanka Agricultural Service
Registrar of Pesticides Control Department of Agriculture
Director of Agriculture Department of Agriculture
Additional Director of Agriculture Department of Agriculture
Additional Director Ministry of Irrigation
Provincial Director of Agriculture / Provincial Councils
Provincial Director
Deputy Director of Agriculture Department of Agriculture An officer of Grade I in the Sri
Deputy Director In – Service Training Institute Lanka Agricultural Service or an
Bombuwala Officer of Grade II in the Sri Lanka
Agricultural Service.
Deputy Director of Agriculture / Provincial
Deputy Director /Provincial Deputy Director
of Agriculture / Deputy Director Provincial Councils
11.2. Method of Selection :
Selection for the posts of Director of Agriculture, Additional Director of Agriculture will be made in accordance
with a procedure approved by the Public Service Commission by calling applications from the officers who have
three (03) years experience in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service.
Selection for the post of Registrar of Pesticides Control will be made in accordance with a procedure approved by
the Public Service Commission by calling applications from the Officers who are in Grade I of the Sri Lanka
Agricultural Service.
DESIGNA TION INSTITUTION METHOD OF APPOINTMENT
Director General of Agriculture Department of Agriculture By the Cabinet of Ministers
Additional Secretary Ministry of Agriculture By the Public Service Commission
Additional Director General (Research) Department of Agriculture By the Public Service Commission
Additional Director General Department of Agriculture By the Public Service Commission
 (Development)
District Director of Agriculture Ministry of Agriculture By the Public Service Commission
Director of Agriculture Ministry of Agriculture By the Public Service Commission
Registrar of Pesticides Control Department of Agriculture By the Public Service Commission
Director of Agriculture Department of Agriculture By the Public Service Commission
Additional Director of Agriculture Department of Agriculture By the Public Service Commission
11 – G  20278

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Additional Director Ministry of Irrigation By the Public Service Commission
Provincial Director of Agriculture / Provincial Councils By the Provincial  Public Service
Provincial Director Commission
Deputy Director of Agriculture Department of Agriculture By the Public Service Commission
Deputy Director In – Service Training Institute By the Provincial  Public Service
Bombuwala Commission
Deputy Director of Agriculture / Provincial
Deputy Director / Provincial Deputy Provincial Councils By the Provincial  Public Service
Director of Agriculture / Deputy Director Commission
Selection for the posts of Deputy Director of Agriculture will be made in accordance  with a procedure approved
by the Public Service Commission by calling applications from the officers who have three (03) years experience in
Grade II of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service.
12. Provisions set out in procedural rules published in the Gazette Extraordinary No.1589/30 of 20.02.2009 of the Public
Service Commission, provisions of Establishments Code general conditions shall apply in respect of every appointment.
12.1  Conditions other than general conditions :
I. All officers in the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service will be subject to serve in the Provincial Public Service as
required. For this purpose officers will be temporarily released to the posts in the Provincial Public
Service. Duration to be so served will be determined as agreed upon between the relevant Provincial
Authority and the Appointing Authority according to the exigencies of service, need of the cadre
engagement and other connected matters.
(a) Provincial authority will issue a letter of appointment to the relevant    officer subject to conditions
of release from the service. The officers appointed to Provincial Councils will be subject to
transfer within the Provincial Council made by the relevant Provincial Authority.
 (b) Despite the fact that an officer has been released to the provincial public service during   this
period he will be subject to administrative and disciplinary control  of  the  Public Service
Commission.
(c) An officer who has been released to the provincial public service shall return to his /her substantial
post at the end of the period of his/her so release.
II.  Officers appointed to Grade III on the results of Open Competitive Examination will be subject to a
probationary period of three (03) years and the officers appointed on the results of the Limited
Competitive Examination will be subject to an acting  period of one year (01). Officers appointed through
open recruitment shall pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination before confirmation in the post and the
officers appointed through the limited recruitment shall pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination within
three (03) years.
III. Skills Development :
Skills Development training over a period of one (1) month will be provided to the officers recruited to
the service  to acquire the skills on the Socio-Economic and Cultural acceptance  in relation to agricultural
development by the Department of Agriculture or other institute (Eg : Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration) identified by the Department. At the end of the programme a certificate will be awarded
following an assessment. This certificate should be obtained for the confirmation in service.
13. Definitions:
13.1. The term “Minute” shall mean the minute on the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service.
13.2. The term “Commission” shall mean the Public Service Commission established in terms of the provisions of
Article 54 (i) of Chapter IX of the Constitution  of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
13.3. The term “Service” shall mean the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service.
DESIGNATION INSTITUTION METHOD OF APPOINTMENT

<!-- page 13 -->

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
13.4. The term “Ministry” shall mean the Ministry in charge of the subject of Agriculture.
13.5. The term “Secretary” shall mean the Secretary to the Ministry in- charge of the subject of Agriculture.
13.6. The term “Director General” shall mean the Director General of Agriculture.
13.7. The term “Department” shall mean the Department of Agriculture.
13.8. The term “Active Period of Service” shall mean the actual period of service an officer has engaged in his/her
duties drawing the salaries relevant to his/her respective post. All periods of no-pay leave other than the period
of maternity leave approved by the government will not be reckoned for the active period of service.
14. Absorption
Applicable only to the Officers who are in service on the date from which this Service Minute shall come into force. All
officers who draw salaries under the salary scale of SL – 01 – 2006 which was introduced by the Public Administration
Circular 06/2006 and Circulars incidental thereto on the prescribed date will be absorbed subject to the provisions of
Section 04 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code as follows.
The period of service will be counted based on the date of appointment to each post and grade. However, the date of
increment of the respective officer should not be changed due to the absorption and that the date should remain
unchanged as the date of increment effective prior to the date of absorption. Likewise, at the conversion of salary, the
relevant Officer should not be placed on the next higher step as per sub – section 4.4 of Chapter VII  of the Establishments
Code since the last salary step drawn by the Officer corresponds to the new salary step.
(I) Absorption into Grade III of the Service
(a) The Officers who are in Class II, Grade II of the Service on the date this Minute comes  into force shall be
absorbed into Grade III of the Service.
(II) Absorption into Grade II of the Service
The Officers who are in Class II, Grade I of the Service on the date this Minute comes into force shall be absorbed
into Grade II of the Service.
(III) Absorption into Grade I of the Service
(a) The Officers who are in Class I of the Service on the date this Minute comes into force,
(b) The Officers who have been Promoted to Class I of the Service on Supernumerary basis on the date  this
Minute comes into force,
Shall be absorbed into Grade 1of the service.
(IV) Absorption into Special Grade of the Service
(i) The Officers who were permanently appointed to the Posts belonging to Special Grade on the date this
minute comes into force and those who have completed a period of 18 years active and satisfactory service
in the Executive Service Category and obtained post graduate qualifications as prescribed in sub – section
10.3.1 of the Minute shall be absorbed into Special Grade.
15. Transitional Arrangements
Transitional period is effective up to 31.12.2014.
15.1.  The Officers who were recruited to Class II, Grade II of the Service during the transitional period subsequent to
the date this Minute comes into force shall be absorbed into Grade III from the date of their first appointment.
15.2. Absorption of the Officers who are already in the service into new Posts of the reconstituted Service.
(a) All Research Officers who are already in the service shall be absorbed into the Agricultural Research
Stream.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
(b) All Agricultural Officers, Lecturers and Subject Matter Specialists shall be absorbed into the Agricultural
Development stream.
(c) All Agricultural Economists shall be absorbed into Agricultural Economics stream.
Note: Designations and approved cadre should be in accordance with the approval of the Director General of
Management Services.
15.3. Seniority of each Officer in the relevant Classes / Grades as at date on which this Minute comes into force will not
interrupt as a result of this absorption.
15.4. Promotion within transitional period:
Promotions within the transitional period shall be made as follows. The effective date of these promotions shall
be the date on which this Minute comes into force or the date on which the relevant qualifications are completed,
whichever occurs later.
15.4.1. Promotion to Grade II
a. On fulfillment of the requirements to be satisfied for the appointment to Class II, Grade I from
Class II, Grade II as specified in the Minute on the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service published in the
Gazette. Extraordinary No.1235/21 of 08.05.2002 and the relevant amendments thereto, promotions
will be made to Grade II of the service.
Recommendations for the promotion to Grade II of the   above service will be made to the Public
Service Commission by the Secretary.
15.4.2       Promotion to Grade I:
(a) An Officer who will be absorbed into Grade II under the Provisions  of this Minute or an Officer
who will be promoted to Grade II within the Transitional Period,
(i) If he/ she has earned  on the due dates all the increments falling due during the period of five
years (05) immediately preceding the date of his/her becoming eligible for promotion ,
and
(ii) If he/she has not been subject to a disciplinary punishment  during the period of five (05) years
immediately preceding the date of  his/her becoming eligible for promotion, will be eligible for
promotion.
(b) Recommendations for the promotion to Grade I will be made by an Interview Board appointed by
the Appointing Authority after conducting an interview for the assessment of qualifications.
15.4.3. Promotion to Special Grade:
A number of officers not more than three times of the number of vacancies existing in Special Grade will
be called for an interview in accordance with the order of seniority in Grade I. After assessment of the
fulfillment of all requirements specified in 10.3.1 above at the structured interview conducted by an
Interview Board appointed by the Public Service Commission, marks will be awarded in accordance with
the marking scheme approved by the Commission. Existing vacancies will be filled based on the order of
the merit of marks.
16. Recruitment to the Service and Grade Promotions.
Recruitment to the Service and grade promotions shall only be made under the methods specified in this Minute.
17. All officers shall acquire required skills and proficiencies as determined by the Government from time to time in addition
to the requirements specifically prescribed in this Minute.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
18. Retirement Option:
An Officer who has not reached the optional age of retirement and has already engaged in the service as at the due date
shall be allowed to give his/her option for retirement under section 07 of the Minutes on Pension on a request made by
him / her. If the Public Service Commission is satisfied that the provisions of this Minute caused adverse effect on the
officer to the extent requiring the grant such a relief, he /she may give his / her option within five (05) years from the
prescribed date.
19. The matters not provided for:
Decisions on any matter not provided for in this minute shall be determined by the Public Service Commission.
First schedule
Approved Designations, Approved Cadre and Duties Assigned:
APPROVED DESIGNATIONS INSTITUTE NO. OF GRADE
  POSTS
Additional Secretary Ministry of Agriculture 02
Director General of Agriculture Department of Agriculture 01 Special
Additional Director General (Research) Department of Agriculture 01
Additional Director General (Development) Department of Agriculture 01
Director Ministry of Agriculture 02
Distric Director of Agriculture Ministry of Agriculture 25
Registrar of Pesticides Control Department of Agriculture 01
Director of Agriculture Department of Agriculture 10 I
Additional Director of Agriculture Department of Agriculture 18
Additional Director Ministry of Irrigation 01
Provincial Director of Agriculture/ Provincial Director Provincial Councils 09
Deputy Director of Agriculture Department of Agriculture 64
Deputy Director In Service Training Institute
Bombuwala 01
Deputy Director of Agriculture/ Provincial Deputy II
 Director/ Provincial Deputy Director of
Agriculture/ Deputy Director Provincial Councils 34
Assistant / Deputy Director Ministry of Agriculture 02
Assistant / Deputy Director of  Agriculture ,
Assistant /Provincial Deputy Director , Assistant /
Deputy Director ,Assistant/ Provincial Deputy
Director of Agriculture Provincial Councils 118
Agricultural Economist W estern Province 01 II/III
Lecturer W estern Province 01
Subject Matter Specialist In Service Training Institute 03
Bombuwala
Assistant/Deputy Director of Agriculture District Training Centre–Horana,
Homagama, Walpita, Ambepussa. 04
Assistant Director of Agriculture (Agricultural
Development) Department of Agriculture 242
Assistant Director of Agriculture (Agricultural Research) Department of Agriculture 286 III
Assistant Director of Agriculture
(Agricultural Economics) Department of Agriculture 16

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
First Appendix
Regulations and Syllabus of the Open Competitive Examination
· * Question Paper –I - Intelligence Paper
A multiple – choice short questions paper including questions to assess the language, mathematics and logical
ability. Duration 1 ¼ hours. Total marks 100.
· * Question paper -2 - Assessment of Knowledge in Subject Area.
This is a written aptitude test to assess the knowledge in the relevant subject area. Each applicant may sit for
question papers as relevant to the post or posts he/she applies for, chosen from the following question papers. These
question papers consist of short questions and multiple – choice questions. Duration 02 hours. Total marks 100.
Note: -  Subject Matter paper in the Open Competitive Examination will be prepared mainly focusing the theoretical
knowledge in accordance with the following syllabus. Examination will be held as determined by the Director
General of Examinations.
Syllabuses in respect of each post are enumerated below:
i. Question paper for the stream of Agricultural Research:
Applicants shall answer only one out of the two parts referred to in (A) and (B) bellow, as they wish.
Part (A)
01. Agricultural Botany:-
Fundamentals of crop classification, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology.
02. Genetics and Plant Breeding:
Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations, molecular genetics, cytogenetic, quantitative genetics, fundamentals
of plant breeding, genetic resources protection and bio – diversity, pollination behavior and breeding concepts,
incompatibility, mass and pure line selection, commonly used breeding methods and current trends.
03. Plant Pathology:
Types of pathogenic organisms, infections, response of plant to infections, infective methods and fundamentals of
their management, current trends in plant pathology and disease management, diagnostic techniques, symptomatology,
Koch’s postulate application , modern techniques of diagnosis (ELISA) , current trends.
04. Fundamentals of Entomology :
Fundamentals of classification of animals , structural characteristics, biological information and damage, economic
significance of pest damage, estimation of insect population and damage.
05. Seed Technology:
Seed physiology, morphology, dormancy germination, viability, tests on viability and purity, stages of seed production,
seed certification and seed storage.
06. Tissue Culture :
                 Theories, facilities and requirements for tissue culture , media , applications of tissue culture systems, protoplast
culture, mutagenesis, embryo rescue, in vitro fertilization, genetic transformations , cryopreservation.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
07.          Agricultural Chemistry:
Fundamentals of biochemistry and practical applications of biochemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of food chemistry
and practical applications of food chemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of analytical chemistry and practical applications
of analytical chemistry in agriculture; or
 Part (B)
01. Agronomy
Agro - climatology, ecology, land development, tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, measurement of
crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control ,principles of irrigation
systems, principles of crop soil and water relationship.
02. Crop Science
Physiology of rice, highland grains, pulses, tuber crops, and  other field crops, growth, methods of propagation,
methods of planting, physical chemical and biological methods in crop manipulation, establishment and management
of scientific pastures, fundamentals of timber and fruit production.
03. Soil Science
Soil formation, physical and chemical characteristics of soil. soil problems relating to cropping, fertility management of
soil, watershed management, plant nutrition , fundamentals of plant classification.
04. Genetics and Plant Breeding:
Fundamentals, Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations, molecular genetics, cytogenetic, fundamentals of plant
breeding, genetic resources protection and bio - diversity.
05 . Plant Pathology:
Plant infections, response of plants to infections, biological control, modern trends in disease management.
06. Fundamentals of Entomology:
Indicated under sub-paragraph 04 of question paper (A)
07. Field research principles and statistical principles and knowledge in important statistics on agricultural sphere in
Sri Lanka.
08. Entomology:
Economically significant insects in agriculture , their classification , internal and external features , structure of different
systems and their  functions, pest management, significance of pest damage, pest identification ,their damage and
control, integrated pest management.
09. Micro – biology:
Micro – organisms and agricultural environment, bio- technology applications in agriculture, soil-living biomass and
their effects on agricultural practices.
10. Biometrics and Applied Statistics:
Basic knowledge in statistics, agricultural research, analysis of planning, obtaining and analysis of data.
Note: It will be compulsory for all the applicants for the stream of Agricultural Research  through Open Recruitment
to answer only any part of the 02 parts referred to as (A) and (B) above.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
ii. Question paper for the stream of Agricultural Development
01. General Agriculture
Climatic zones of Sri Lanka, land development, land preparation  and equipment, crop establishment and machinery
required for the purpose, soil and soil  fertility, nursery and nursery management, planting material, pest  control, plant
protection, appliances, cropping systems, irrigation methods ,integrated farming, protected agriculture, micro-irrigation
systems, harvesting and harvesting machinery, post-harvest losses, processing of farm products, factors considered
in selecting suitable vegetables, fruits, pulses and cereals for cultivation in specific areas, integrated pest management,
integrated plant nutrition  systems, Plant Protection Act, Soil Conservation Act.
02. Crop Production:
 Agronomy, agro-climatology and ecology, land development and tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology,
measurement of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control,
irrigation agronomy, principles of crop water relationship.
03. Field Crops:
 Introduction, ecological requirements, plant species and varieties, growth physiology, physiological principles of
yield determination, rice agronomy, crop management and production, highland cereals, legumes, tuber crops and
other important field crops (tobacco, onion, fiber and oil crops).
04. Crop Management:
Intercropping, harvesting and processing.
05. Horticultural Crop Production:
Fruit production, nutritional value, social and economic factors, origin and distribution, ecological requirements,
cultural practices, application of modern techniques.
06. Fruit, vegetable and flower production:
Nursery management, orchard management ,modern techniques in crop establishment and culture, fruit  and vegetable
crop improvement, fruit and vegetable based cropping systems, post harvest losses, prevention of post harvest losses
of fruits and vegetables, biotechnology , local and export markets for fruits and vegetables, present constraints and
future strategies, requirements for vegetable production, vegetable based cropping systems, marketing, floriculture,
propagation techniques, cultural practices, quality parameters, principles of landscape gardening.
07. Agricultural Extension and Training
Introduction of agricultural extension and objectives, agricultural development and extension, adaptation and diffusion
of  innovations, communication, teaching methods of extensions, extension approaches used in Sri Lanka, relation
between research and extension, preparation of extension programmes, review and evaluation, institutions associated
with agricultural extension in Sri Lanka,  adult education, training procedure, various techniques used in identifying
training requirements ,arrangement of lessons, evaluation of training, use of audio-visual devices for training.
08. Seed Technology:
Seed physiology, structure, morphology, germination, viability, seed testing, tests on viability and purity, stages of
seed production, seed certification, and seed storage.
09. Apiculture:
Types of bees and hives in a colony, parts of bee boxes, capturing of bee colonies, establishment, dividing, pest and
diseases in a bee colony.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
iii.  Question  paper for the stream of Agricultural Economics
01. Agricultural Production / Economics and Farm Management :
Importance of farm management in agricultural production, basic concepts, production functions, forms of production
functions, production surfaces, ISO- quant, ISO-clines, ISO-revenue lines, principles of resources combination and
cost minimization, principles of diminishing returns, substitution and  income effects, flexibility and diversification of
adjustments of production to meet risk and uncertainty in agriculture, price theory with special emphasis relating to
pricing of agricultural products, evaluation of  crop – livestock combination, farm site and returns to scale, principles
of importance and comparative advantage of family farms, importance of records in determining the strong and weak
points in the farm mechanization and incorporation of  this information in optimization models.
02. Agricultural Marketing:
           General principles of marketing, relative importance of such production and marketing, institutions dealing with
marketing in Sri Lanka, role of such institutions in influencing the growth of markets, problems facing the marketing of
agricultural products in Sri Lanka and principles involved in improving marketing efficiency.
03. Land Economics:
Economics concepts as applied to land use, demand for land supply in Sri Lanka, land use planning in Sri Lanka,
importance of colonization and settlement programmes in Sri Lanka.
Second Appendix
Regulation of the Limited Competitive Examination and the relevant syllabus.
Question Paper –1 - Intelligence Test
A question paper consists of multiple – choice and short questions to assess the knowledge in the language, mathematics
and logical ability. Duration 1 ¼ hours. Total number of makes 100.
Question Paper –2 – Assessment of Knowledge in Subject Matter
This is a written aptitude test to assess the knowledge in the relevant subject area. Each applicant may sit for question papers
as relevant to the post or posts he/she applies for, chosen from the following question papers. These question papers consist
of short questions and multiple choice questions. Duration 02 hours .Total number of marks 100.
Note: Subject Matter paper in the Limited Competitive Examination will be prepared mainly focusing on the experiences
in the field in accordance with the following syllabus. Examination will be held as determined by the Director
General of Examinations.
         Syllabuses in respect of each post are set out below:
i. Question paper for the stream of Agricultural Research:
Applicants shall answer only one out of the two parts referred to in (A) and (B) bellow, as they wish.
12 – G  20278

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Part (A)
01. Agricultural Botany:-
Fundamentals of crop classification, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology.
02. Genetics and Plant Breeding:
Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations, molecular genetics, cytogenetics, quantitative genetics,
fundamentals of plant breeding, genetic resources protection and bio – diversity, pollination behavior and
breeding concepts, incompatibility, mass and pure line selection, commonly used breeding methods and  current
trends.
03. Plant Pathology:
Types of pathogenic organisms, infections, response of plant to infections, infective methods and fundamentals
of their management, current trends in plant pathology and disease management, diagnostic techniques,
symptomatology, Koch’s postulate application , modern techniques of diagnosis (ELISA) and current trends.
04. Fundamentals of Entomology :
Fundamentals of classification of animals, structural characteristics of insects, biological information and damage,
economic significance of pest damage, estimation of insect population and damage.
05. Seed Technology:
 Seed physiology, morphology, dormancy germination, viability, seed tests and tests on purity , stages of seed
production, seed certification and seed storage.
06. Tissue Culture :
                 Theories, requirements and facilities for tissue culture, media, applications of tissue culture systems, protoplast
culture, mutagenesis, embryo rescue, in vitro fertilization, genetic transformation, cryopreservation.
07.  Agricultural Chemistry:
Fundamentals of biochemistry and practical applications of biochemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of food
chemistry and practical applications of food chemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of analytical chemistry and
practical applications of analytical chemistry in agriculture;
or
 Part (B)
01.  Agronomy
Agro-climatology, ecology, land development, tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, measurement of
crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control ,principles of irrigation
systems, principle of crop soil and water relationship.
02. Crop Science
Physiology of rice, highland grains, pulses, tuber crops and other field crops, vegetative propagation methods of
planting, physical chemical and biological methods in crop manipulation, establishment and management of scientific
pastures, fundamentals of timber and fruit production.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
03. Soil Science
Soil formation, physical and chemical characteristics of soil. soil problems relating to cropping, fertility management of
soil, watershed management, plant nutrition , fundamentals of plant classification.
04. Genetics and Plant Breeding:
Fundamentals, Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations, molecular genetics, cytogenetic, fundamentals of plant
breeding, genetic resources protection and bio - diversity.
05 . Plant Pathology:
Plant infections response of plants to infections, biological control, modern trends in disease management.
06. Fundamentals of Entomology:
Indicated under sub-Para 04 of question paper (A)
07. Field research principles and statistical principles and knowledge in important statistics on agricultural sphere in
Sri Lanka.
08. Entomology:
Economically significant insects in agriculture, their classification, internal and external features, structure of different
systems and their functions, pest management, significance of pest damage, pest identification, their damage and
control, integrated pest management.
09. Micro – Biology:
Micro – organisms and agricultural environment, bio- technology applications in agriculture, soil-living biomass and
their effects on agricultural practices.
10. Biometrics and Applied Statistics:
Basic knowledge in statistics, Agricultural research , analysis of planning, obtaining and analysis of data.
Note: It will be compulsory for all the applicants who apply for the stream of Agricultural Research through Limited
Recruitments to answer only any part of the 02 parts referred to in (A) or (B) above.
ii.    Question paper for the stream of Agricultural Development:
1. General Agriculture
Climatic zones of Sri Lanka, land development, land preparation  and equipment, crop establishment and machinery
required for the purpose, soil and soil  fertility, nursery and nursery management, planting materials, pest control, plant
protection, appliances, cropping systems, irrigation methods ,integrated farming, protected agriculture, micro-irrigation
systems, harvesting and harvesting machinery, post-harvest losses, processing of farm products, factors considered
in selecting suitable vegetable, fruits, pulses and cereals for cultivation in specific areas, integrated pest management,
integrated plant nutrition  systems, Plant Protection Act, Soil Conservation Act.
2. Crop Production:
Agronomy, agro-climatology and ecology, land development and tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology,
measurement of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control,
irrigation, agronomy, principles of crop water relationship.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
03. Field Crops:
Introduction, ecological requirements, plant species and varieties, growth physiology, physiological principles of
yield determination, rice agronomy, crop management and production, highland cereals, legumes, tuber crops and
other important field crops (tobacco, onion, fiber and oil crops).
04. Crop Management:
Intercropping, harvesting and processing.
05. Horticultural Crop Production:
Fruit production, nutritional value, social and economic factors, origin and distribution, ecological requirements,
cultural practices, application of modern techniques.
06. Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Production:
 Nursery management, orchard management ,modern techniques in crop establishment and culture, fruit  and vegetable
crop improvement, fruit and vegetable based cropping systems, post harvest losses, prevention of post harvest losses
of fruits and vegetables, biotechnology, local and export markets for fruits and vegetables, present constraints and
future strategies, requirements for vegetable production, vegetable based cropping systems, marketing, floriculture,
propagation techniques, cultural practices, quality parameters, principles of landscape gardening.
07. Agricultural Extension and Training
Introduction of agricultural extension and objectives, agricultural development and extension, adaptation and diffusion
of  innovations, communication, teaching methods of extensions, extension approaches used in Sri Lanka, relation
between research and extension, preparation of extension programmes, review and evaluation, institutions associated
with agricultural extension in Sri Lanka,  adult education, training procedure , various techniques used in identifying
training requirements , arrangement of lessons , evaluation of training , use of audio-visual devices for training.
08. Seed Technology:
Seed physiology, structure, morphology, germination, viability, seed testing , tests on viability and purity, stages of
seed production, seed certification, and seed storage.
09. Apiculture:
Types of bees and hives in a colony, parts of bee boxes, capturing of  bee colonies, establishment, dividing, pest and
diseases in a bee colony.
iii. Question  paper for the stream of Agricultural Economics:
01. Agricultural Production, Economics and Farm Management :
Importance of farm management in agricultural production, basic concepts, production functions, forms of production
functions, production surfaces, iso - quant, iso-clines, iso-revenue lines, principles of  resources combination and cost
minimization, principles of diminishing returns, substitution and  income effects, flexibility and diversification of
adjustments of production to meet risk and uncertainty in agriculture, price theory with special emphasis relating to
pricing of agricultural products, evaluation of  crop – livestock combination, farm site and returns to scale, principles
of importance and comparative advantage of family farms, importance of records in determining the strong and weak
points in the farm mechanization and incorporation of  this information in optimization models.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
02. Agricultural Marketing:
General principles of marketing, relative importance of such production and marketing, institutions dealing with marketing
in Sri Lanka, role of such institutions in influencing the growth of markets, problems facing the marketing of agricultural
products in Sri Lanka and principles involved in improving marketing efficiency.
03. Land Economics:
Economics concepts as applied to land use, demand for land supply in Sri Lanka, land use planning in Sri Lanka,
importance of colonization and settlement programmes in Sri Lanka.
Third Appendix
First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade III.
Syllabus and the Question Papers
01. This examination will consist of 03 papers as follows: -
Paper  (I) - Finances (1 ½  Hours)
Paper (II) - Administration (03 Hours)
Paper (III) - Or ganization of Agriculture in Sri Lanka (03 Hours)
02. The Officers of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service appearing in papers I and II shall sit these papers at the first Efficiency
Bar Examination for the officers of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations annually. The Commissioner General of Examinations will notify the dates and the time table relating to this
examinations.It will be the responsibility of the applicants to apply for the said examinations in time in accordance with
the Gazette notifications published by the Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture calling application for the examination.
The Director General of Agriculture will conduct the examination in respect of the paper III. The Director General of
Agriculture will notify the dates and time tables in respect of this examination by the annual examination time table of the
department. It will be the responsibility of the applicants to apply for the examination in time in accordance with such
notifications.
03. Candidates shall be required to secure a minimum of 40% of marks for a pass in each paper.
04. The Officers may take up the 03 papers on one and the same occasion or on separate occasions, as they wish.
SYLLABUS
Paper-I- Finances
The examination in fiances will be based on the following:
 (a) The Financial Regulation of the Government of Sri Lanka, Part I  (Except Chapter X);
(b) The estimates of the current year, e.g. their arrangement; Heads , The Finance and Appropriation Acts;

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Note :-
Candidates will be required to obtain 40 % of the total marks for a pass.
Paper – II- Administration
The examination in administration will be based on the following:
(a) Office and Field Organization methods.
(b) The Establishments Code: Chapters V , VI , VII,IX,  XIII,  XXV ,  XXVI  , XXVII, XXVIII,  XXIX,   XXX,  XXXI,  XXXII,
XXXIII,  XLVII,   XLVIII,  Procedural  Rules approved by the Public Service Commission.
Note
Candidates will be required to obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
Paper-III
Organization Of Agriculture In Sri Lanka
PART I – PUBLIC  SECTOR  AND  FORMULATION OF  AGRICULTURAL  POLICY  AT  NATIONAL  LEVEL
1. Ministry in - charge of the Subject of Agriculture and its functions.
2. Structural set up of the Ministry and it’s responsibilities.
Policies pertaining to:
Agricultural development, land tenure and land reforms, input supplies and output disposal, import and export of
agricultural products and agricultural machinery, plant importation, agricultural production, pricing of agricultural
products and price supports and supplies, acts and laws implemented by the development of agriculture  pertaining to
land ownership and land use policies and policies regarding agricultural credit, all Departments and Boards and
Institutions under the Ministry of Agriculture.
 PART II -A study on other Ministries and Public sector institutions, concerned with agricultural development, the provisions
in relevance to agricultural development , the objectives and functions of   various organizations and institutions
concerned with agricultural development.
Ministry of Rural Industries Development, Department of Animal Production and Health, National Livestock
Development Board, Department of Co-operative Development , Ministry of Plantation Industries, Tea  Board of
Sri Lanka,  Rubber Research Institute, Coconut Development Authority. Mahaveli Authority , Provincial Council
System, District Administration, Universities of  Sri Lanka, Banking Systems and Finance Institutions of the public
sector, Department of Agrarian Development, Agrarian Centers (Their role in agricultural and livestock development).
                                                   PART  III - 
PRIVATE SECTOR
1. Export  Agricultural Enterprises
(a) Tea
(b) Rubber
(c) Coconut
(d) Export agricultural crops
(e) Other agricultural products

<!-- page 25 -->

25AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
2. Domestic Agriculture
(a) Paddy
(b) Highland crops including horticultural crops
(c) Other agricultural crops.
3. Organizations of the Private Sector (Non-Governmental)
(a) Collective , Co- operative  and group farms
(b) Owner operated farms according to size classification
4. Banking Systems and Financé Companies of the Private Sector
(a)  Their role in agricultural and livestock development
PART IV - 
FOMULATION, IMPLEMENTATION AND EVALUATION OF  AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT AND
PRODUCTION  PROGRAMMES
1. Agricultural development and the role of agricultural planning.
2. Procedures of planning and programming.
3. Preparation of agricultural projects and introduction.
4. Implementation procedures
5. Progress monitoring and evaluation.
Fourth Appendix
Syllabus and question papers of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in grade II.
Particulars on Second Efficiency Bar Examination are given below.
01. The Second Efficiency Bar Examination on agricultural Science as referred to in sub-Para 8.3 of the Minute on the Sri
Lanka Agricultural Service will be held annually by the Department of Agriculture.
02. This examination will consist of two parts, a candidate is permitted to sit both parts together or separately, but he/she
should complete the examination within a period of three consecutive years.
03. Part-I of the examination will consist of two papers and each paper will be of three hours duration and every candidate
should pass both papers. A candidate should secure a minimum of 40% of marks in each paper for a pass.
04. Part II of the examination will consist of seventeen papers and each paper will be of three hours duration. Every
candidate should pass two papers. A candidate should secure a minimum of 40% of marks in each paper for a pass.
05. A candidate will be allowed to sit only one paper out of papers 3, 7 and 8 in part II.
06. Parts I and II of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of following papers.
Part-I:
     Paper - 1   -    Agricultural Development
     Paper - 2   -    Crop Production

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Part – II
      Paper -1 - Agricultural Extension and Education
      Part   (a) - Agricultural Extension
      Part   (b) - Agricultural Education and Training
      Paper - 2 - Soil and Water Management
      Paper - 3 - Plant Protection
      Paper - 4 - Seed Technological Methods
Part    (a)     -         Seed and Planting Materials Production
Part    (b)     -         Seed Science and Technology
Paper - 5 - Agronomy
Paper - 6 - Agricultural Chemistry
Paper - 7 - Entomology
Paper - 8 - Plant Pathology
Paper - 9 - Horticulture
Paper - 10 - Agricultural Products, Economics and Farm Management
Paper - 11 - Agricultural Marketing
Paper - 12 - Plant Breeding and Genetics
Paper - 13 - Plant Physiology
Paper - 14 - Agricultural Engineering
Paper - 15 - Floriculture and Landscaping
Part (a)  –  General Floriculture
Part (b) –  Urban Horticulture and Landscaping
Paper -16 - Food Science
Paper -17 - Nutrition and Health
07. The syllabuses of each question paper referred to in above Para 06 are given below.
SYLLABUSES  OF  QUESTION  PAPERS  RELEV ANT  TO FIRST  PART  OF  SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR
EXAMINATION
PAPER - I
Agricultural Development:
Nature and significance of the Agricultural sector in the economy of Sri Lanka:-
Main problems of Agriculture in Sri Lanka, dual nature of the agricultural sector in Sri Lanka  and the importance of
each individual sector , laws relating to agricultural productivity, agricultural marketing in Sri Lanka, problems facing the
peasant farmers in Sri Lanka, agricultural institutions concerned  with agriculture and their impact on agricultural development
in the country, importance of agricultural trade and Sri Lanka’s  position in International trade in agriculture.
PAPER  - II
Crop Production:

<!-- page 27 -->

27AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Principles of Crop Husbandry:
Classification, distribution, identification and cultivation of important grain crops, legumes, fiber and forage crops, other
economic crops with emphasis on the principles of crop production, cultivation, distribution, storage,classification and
improvement of crops including rice, maize, sorghum and millets.
Pasture and Fodder Crops:
Methods of establishment, management, conservation, utilization’ weed control and cultivation of nutritious forage plants
and pastures and fodder and pasture with good characteristics and their characteristics.
Seed Technology:
Seed purity, seed testing, germination, identification of basic elements of seed grading with an introduction to seed dormancy
and equipments and seed evaluation, characteristics of crops, weeds, diseases and other factors effect on seed quality.
Fundamentals of Soil Science:
The origin, formation, composition and classification of Sri Lanka soils and the principle chemical, physical and biological
properties of soils in relation to plant growth, soil productivity and land use, practical management of soils and fertilizer
usage.
Irrigation Principles:
Water sources, irrigation water and use of irrigation water, surface and sprinkler irrigation systems, layout and management
of water sources.
Soil Management and Conservation:
Use of principles of  soil management with emphasis on improvement and maintenance of soil productivity, problems
associated with erosion,  drainage, flood protection and irrigation, fruit production, fruit cultivation with special emphasis on
pineapple, mango, passion fruit, citrus, banana and other tropical fruits.
 Vegetable Production:
Production and marketing of exotic and local vegetables, integration of crops with livestock production at farm level.
SYLLABUSES  OF  QUESTION  PAPERS  RELEVANT  TO  SECOND  PART  OF  SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR
EXAMINATION
Paper-1 - Agricultural Extension and Education:
Part (a) - Agricultural Extension:
Principles of extension in Agriculture, extension as an approach to rural development, extension advantages and disadvantages
of the different methods and systems, study of different techniques like demonstrations, field trips; lecturing, participative
learning  programmes, problem solving, exhibitions etc.
Different systems of extension: Preparation of past and present extension programmes,  monitoring and evaluation of the
programmes, implementation of programmes, communication in Agriculture, what is communication? use of communication
principles in relevance to extension, use of teaching materials and aids, the role of mass media in extension, its potential,
present drawbacks and limitations, rural sociology, definition of culture, society, social changes, village level social institutions,
community and group leaders, group dynamics, leadership styles and managers, extension execution, principles in agricultural
development, implementation of programmes,  problems associated with the development of extension organization,solving
the problems faced by farmers in adoption practices, supporting institutions and organizations in agricultural extension,
young farmers movements,  village level organizations like MPCS and ASC, the role of other departments that involve in
agricultural development, District Development Councils, voluntary organizations etc.
13 – G  20278

<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Part (b) – Agricultural Education and Training:
Elementary psychology, elementary sociology, vocational education in agriculture, selection and organization of teaching
content and methods of teaching, adult education in agriculture with particular reference to farmer training, developing
programmes for young and adult farmers and effective methods of teaching, In - Service training, assessment of training needs,
formulation of training programmes, training techniques and assessment of results.
Paper -2- Soil and Water Management:
  Physical properties of soil, effects of environmental and cultural factors on soil structure, aggregate stability and its
evaluation, factors responsible for soil erosion, effects of soil erosion on soil properties, erosivity and erodibility, erosio n
problems in irrigated lands, open channels, streams and water sheds, methods of soil and water conservation, basic mechanics
of soil water movement, forces involved in unsaturated movement of water in soil and field usage , design of water applications,
construction and operation of water applications using design parameters, preparation  of land for irrigation, sources of water
for irrigation, development of irrigation, development and conservation of surface water supplies, ground water and
development of  water resources,determination and estimation of consumptive use of crops, Lysimeter  and other measurement
techniques, drainage criterion, principles and methods of drainage, type of drainage systems, layout of farm drains and
drainage requirements of lands with irrigation facilities and farms.
Paper -3- Plant Protection: (A candidate sitting for the paper 3 is debarred from sitting for papers 7 and 8)
Identification of economic pests of rice, vegetables and fruits and major pests of plantation crops in Sri Lanka and their
classification up to family, the causes for pest outbreaks and their special disposition, methods of sampling and estimating
insect population, recognition of plant injury inclusive of insect toxins and insect transmission plant diseases, the principles
of insect control, the various methods recommended for specific pests and the practice of integrated pest control, insecticides,
their usage and limitations, preparation of spray solutions and precautions should be followed in handling and  spraying
them on crops, care for the proper maintenance of a sprayer and a duster, analysis and forecasting of epidemics, plant
diseases, survey, assessment and estimation of crop loss.
The main types of diseases:
Damping off, seedling blights, root rots, wilts, mildews, rusts, smuts, blights, anthracnose, leaf spots, leaf curl, club root,
galls, cankers, scab, mosaics and yellows. Etiology and control of economically important diseases of crops in Sri Lanka.
Epidemiology:
Pathogen, host and environmental factors, forecasting of epidemics, disease control, exclusion, eradication, legislation and
quarantine, disease control through protective measures, pesticides, their application and mode of action, disease control
through host resistance, breeding for disease resistance.
Weed Science:
Occurrence and reproduction of weeds in lowland and highland conditions, principles of weed control, mechanical, biological
and chemical methods, properties and functions of herbicides, selective and non - selective herbicides and their application,
weed and crop seed certification.
Fungicides:
Chemical nature, formulation and methods of application of the common sulphur fungicides, copper fungicides, mercury
fungicides, carbonate fungicides, soil fumigants, methods of fungicidal action, compatibility of fungicides and insecticides.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Paper 4 -   Seed Technology
Part (a) - Production of Seed and Planting Material
Seed production:
Principles of seed production, importance of quality seed production, seed producing areas, climatological requirements for
seed production, reproduction methods, induction and initiation of flowering, principles and methods of seed production in
self and cross pollinated crops, hybrid seed production and pollination problems, preparation of seed beds, sowing and
application of fertilizer, application of herbicides, application of pesticides, weed control, pest and disease control, cultural
practices relating to crop husbandry including harvesting and threshing, economic factors of seed production, seed processing
and storage, seed cleaning, treating, drying, conditioning, grading, packaging, distribution and storage with special emphasis
on minimizing or preventing the damage to seed at all stages.
Viability and Sampling:
Preparation of seed stocks, and seed sampling, causes for heterogeneity and detection of them , statistical tolerance and
advantages.
Part (b) - Seed Science and Technology
Seed physiology, seed structure, seed morphology, pollination, seed formation and seed development, maturity, ripeness,
correct stage for harvest, viability and germination, seed vigor, seed dormancy.
Seed Pathology:
Seed insects, fungi and other organisms, including rodents which infect seed in stores and field.
Principles of plant quarantine:
control of seed diseases, testing of seed, rules and techniques in laboratory analysis on analytical purity of seed lots,
identification of impurities, weed seed, pure seed, inert matter, determination of moisture content, varietal purity, sundry seed
characters, determination of viability, percentage of germination , abnormal growth etc and vigor in laboratories.
Seed certification:
Importance of varietal purity , determination of it in the field, field inspections, procedures and standards, prevention of
contamination during multiplication of different seed, generation through various certification classes in different certification
methods , principles and policies of seed quality control, seed pricing, marketing channels, cost margins etc.
Paper-5 - Agronomy
Physical, chemical and biological basis for the adaptation of soil management systems for crop production to meet the needs
of soil groups in Sri Lanka, it  is emphasised on principles of soil fertility, water, tilt  and land preparation for crop production,
and various practices for their application, advanced knowledge on the principles relating to field crop growth and knowledge
on the principles relating to field crop growth and recognition of their growth and maturity, species, adaptation  of them to the
agro-ecological zones of Sri Lanka and cropping systems, weed control, principles, chemical action herbicides on weed
control with emphasis on weed ecology, control of weed in all major annual crops.
Paper-6 - Agricultural Chemistry
Nature and properties of mineral and organic constituents of soils. ion exchange phenomena, cation exchange reaction and
exchangeable bases, Redox  potential and chemistry of submerged soils. soil alkalinity and acidity, salinity and  salino soils,
non- inorganic plant nutrients(minerals) in the soil, soil survey, systems of soil classification, soils of Sri Lanka and their
classifications, micro and macro organisms in soils and their influence on soil properties, soil organic matters and their
properties, methods of soil and plant analysis, physical, chemical and biological aspects of soil fertility, nature of fertilizers,

<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
organic manures and their substitutes, basis of fertilizer recommendation and  applications, use of radio active trace techniques
in soil and plant nutrition, symptoms of deficiency and toxicity soil , correction of major and minor element deficiencies,
chemistry and mode of action of insecticides, fungicides and weedicides, soil agro-chemical relation- ship in different type of
formulations, effect of agro-chemicals on soil microflora and fauna, degradation of agro-chemicals, chemical analysis of agro
– chemicals.
Paper 7- Entomology
  (A candidate sitting for the paper 7 is debarred from sitting for papers 3 and 8.)
Structure, characteristics and descriptions of head capsule, antennae, mouth parts, thorax and abdomen of mature and
immature insects used in explaining principles and methods of classification of insects up to the family and making keys,
Insect integument and excretion, structure and function of respiratory and nervous systems, biology, ecology and systems
of economically important pests in cultivated crops in Sri Lanka and their distribution in Sri Lanka, biology and ecology of
economically important plant parasitic nematodes, mites and rodents, principals and methods of pest control and current
trends, specific characteristic of different types of insecticides, their usage and limitations, specific experimental methods
used in field and laboratory experiments, pest control methods and  alternative bio control, integrated pest management,
usage of pheromones etc.
 
Paper 8 - Plant Pathology
 (A candidate sitting for the paper 8 is debarred from sitting for papers 3 and 7)
Definition of disease in plants, causes of diseases , parasitic and non – parasitic diseases, characteristics and classificatio n
of the major groups of causal agents, observations, isolation, identification and investigation of causal agents, knowledge of
methods and techniques in plant pathology.
Symptomatology - The main types of diseases-
Damping off , seedling blights, root and foot rots, wilt, mildews, rusts, smuts, blights, anthracnose, leaf spots, leaf curl, club
root, galls, cankers, scab, mosaics and yellows, post harvest and market diseases, seed borne diseases,  etiology and control
of diseases of economically important crops in Sri Lanka, penetration into host and establishment of pathogens, factors
affecting infection, enzymes and toxins associated with diseases, alteration in metabolism of infected  plants, disease
resistance, escape from diseases.
Epidemiology –
Pathogens, host and environmental factors, forecasting of epidemics, plant disease survey, assessment and estimation of
crop losses, disease control through exclusion and eradication, legislation and quarantine, disease control through protection,
pesticides, their application and mode of action, disease control through host resistance, breeding for disease resistance.
Paper 9 - Horticulture
Establishment and management of horticultural crops (fruits, flowers and vegetables), propagation of horticultural crops,
sexual methods and asexual methods, methods / techniques of asexual propagation, stock scion relationship, flower and fruit
induction in horticultural crops, commercial fruit growing and factors promoting its success, seasonal and regional distribution
of fruits in Sri Lanka,
special emphasis should be given on following crops:
citrus, sapodilla, avocado, mango, papaw, pineapple, banana, guava,  passion fruits, jack, grapes. harvesting, handling,
processing and storage of horticultural crops,  cultivation of local and exotic vegetables under irrigated and rain fed conditions,
at commercial level and in home gardens.

<!-- page 31 -->

31AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Paper 10 - Agricultural Production Economics and Farm Management
   Importance of farm management in agricultural production, basic concepts – production function, forms of production
functions, production surfaces, iso-quants, iso-clines, iso-revenue  lines, principles of resource combination and cost
minimization, principle of diminishing returns, substitution and income effects, risk and uncertainty in agriculture ,adjustment
of production to meet uncertainty,  flexibility and diversification, price theory with  special emphasis relating to pricing of
agricultural products.
            Evaluation of crop - livestock combination, farm size and returns to scale, importance and objective of family farms,
principles of comparative advantage, importance of records in determining the strong and weak points in the farm organization
and incorporation of this information in optimization models.
Paper 11- Agricultural Marketing
Part I –Marketing
   General principles of marketing, relative importance of production and marketing, institutions dealing with marketing in Sri
Lanka, role of such institution in influencing the growth of markets, problems facing the marketing of agricultural products in
Sri Lanka and the principles involved in improving marketing efficiency.
Part II –Land Economics
  Economic concepts as applied to land use, demand for land in Sri Lanka and supply  land use planning in Sri Lanka,
importance of colonization and settlement programmes in Sri Lanka.
 Paper 12- Plant Breeding and Genetics
 Role of chromosomes in evolution and breeding , genetic mechanism for controlling important morphological, physiological
and bio- chemical traits of major plant crops, quantitative inheritance and heritability, genetics and pathogenicity, host –
pathogen relationships and host insect-pest relationship, methods of plant improvement in relation to breeding methods,
special plant breeding techniques, breeding for para- meters of yield, systems of cultivation, tolerance to physiological
stresses and resistance to diseases and insect pests, new  methods of crop plant breeding.
Adaptation of genotypes under different management levels, and varying seasonal and agro- ecological conditions, the
influence of genetics and environmental functions on yield and the components of yield. conservation and utilization of
plant genetic resources.
Paper 13 - Plant Physiology:
(a) Synthesis and Growth of Crop Plants:
Photosynthesis systems and physiology of photosynthesis, vascular translocation, path ways, mechanisms and
distribution pattern.
(b) Growth Regulators :
Their distribution and metabolism and mechanism of metabolism, their role, regulatory functions in relation to
growth and development.
(c) Development
Germination and dormancy, juvenility, maturity and senescence, flowering, fruiting, tuber and bulb formation.
(d) Environmental factors and their role in plant growth and development.
14 – G  20278

<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Paper 14 - Agricultural Engineering
Part-I
Watershed Management and Irrigation:
Surface and ground water resources in Agriculture, principles of soil and water management, disasters and methods
of controlling them, economics on watershed  management;
Water resources and Soil Management:
Water relation, water requirement of crops,  surveying and leveling of lands for irrigation, land development,
irrigation methods, surface water supplies, supply of water on canopies, drip irrigation, irrigation systems and
structure, planning of irrigation, efficient water management, quality of irrigated water, measurement of irrigated
water, adoptation of irrigation technology as suitable to the field.
Measurement of water flow, water flow controlling structures, gravitational and elevator irrigation systems, losses
in water supply, requirements of water supply, efficiency of water supply, formulation of water supply time–table,
dividing of water supply, water supply formations, rehabilitation, crop diversification for water supply management,
water  management policies in Sri Lanka.
Part II - Farm Mechanization
Role of Farm Mechanization:
In time cropping, improvement of the speed of harvesting, quantitative improvement of the quality of products,
minimizing of harvesting losses, minimizing of losses occurred before and after harvesting, maximum utilization of
water, attraction of young generation towards agriculture, solving of labour issues.
Machines and equipment used, working principles and specific needs, land preparation (preliminary land preparation,
secondary land preparation and preparation of seed beds), planting (seed planting and planting), crop management
(weeding, pest control, use of pesticides), irrigation (furrow, flood and micro), harvesting (paddy harvesters, paddy
thresher, combine harvester, fruit harvesting devices), grain processing (de husking, cleaning and dividing)
Availability of farm energy sources and limitations (animals, tractors, machinery, power, regenerative energy sources)
Installation of internal combustion engines (four-stroke, two stroke, petrol and diesel) and their operational principles,
regenerative energies (wind and solar), priming methods, energy transmission methods in agricultural machinery
and tractors.
Methods of fixing, adjusting and maintaining of machinery (plough ect.) used for land preparation, establishment of
machinery (seeders, trans planters), crop management (weeders, sprinklers, water pumps, micro irrigation equipment),
harvesting and threshing (paddy harvesters, multi–crop threshers  small and high capacity), threshers (small and
high capacity threshers, combine harvesters), grain processing.
Precautionary instructions on farm machinery, cost-benefit evaluation of farm machinery, storage methods of legume
seeds and grains, storage losses and methods of preventing from such losses, drying methods of vegetables/ fruits/
grains, drying machinery, drying in the sun light (direct drying  equipment).
Value–added technologies, dehusking  and dividing , packaging, packaging in tins and bottles , protective methods
of transportation, oil extracting methods and machinery specific for different seeds.

<!-- page 33 -->

33AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Paper 15 – Floriculture and Landscaping
Part I-General Floriculture
Propagation of ornamental plants:
Ornamental trees, shrubs, herbs and creepers, nursery  management and techniques for ornamental plants,
maintenance and care of lawns, borders, beds, rock gardens, and other ornamental features, care, maintenance and
preservation of trees, tree  surgery, elementary plant taxonomy, cultivation of the main floricultural crops such as
orchids, anthuriums, roses, cannas, dahlias and annually flowering trees, cultivation of medicinal plants, plant
protection and control of pest diseases, knowledge of economic plants of minor importance.
Part II–Urban Horticulture and Landscaping
Principles of garden layout, types of landscape design, layout of lawns, beds, borders and special features of rock
gardens, Japanese gardens, water gardens etc. garden layout for planting trees on road sides, botanical gardens,
planning of home gardens, office premises etc.
Paper 16 – Food Science.
Flavoring agents such as starch, lipids, vitamins, minerals and other cooking components in foods, their chemical
changes and interaction among them, relation between water and water contain in foods.
Enzymes and Enzymology:
Changes caused by enzymes in foods, cellulose metabolism in foods, other metabolic agents in amino acids and
lipids,
]Micro–organisms:
Types of micro–organisms, microbiology, microbiological methodologies, culture of micro-organisms and staining
of micro–organisms, micro-organisms in foods, harmful and beneficial micro–organisms, control of micro–organisms
in foods, food production, structural characteristics of main nutrient constituents, grain and other starch containing
foods, milk products and products containing fats, fish and meat products, decomposition of fruits and vegetables,
causal factors of food spoilage, heat treatment, dehydration, deep freezing.
Paper 17 – Nutrition and Health Science
Function of foods and common composition, starch, basic structure of fats and proteins,  energy requirements and
sources, amino acids and protein requirements, sources of proteins, function of vitamins  and minerals, requirements
and  sources of balanced diet, energy yielding food, digestion, absorption and exchange of nutritive matter, metabolism
of energy yielding foods, nutrition and anemia, disposal of production wastes, concept of balanced diet.
Grains:
Composition, loss of nutrition during processing and cooking, deficiencies in cereal diet, composition and usage of
other starch meals, composition and usage of legumes, formations during cooking and relative quality of different
legume foodstuff, oil  seeds and nuts, vegetables and fruits, milk and milk products, composition  and nutrition
value of meat, fish and eggs, toxins in foods, use of food data, Sri Lankan meal, nutrition requirement during the
period of growth from embryo to fetus, infant, child and up to adult, nutrition requirement during pregnancy and
breast feeding, nutrition requirement of aged person, inter-relation of nutrition with sanitary and spread of diseases,
other effects associate with a nutrition deficiency diseases, epidemiology on nutritional defects and meals as a
family and a person, effect of culture, tradition, water and access to fuel and time on food consumption, inter-
relation between diseases and nutritional condition.

<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
Supply of meals to Home :
Food habits and concepts, decision making inside the home, impact of number of family members, gaps among
births, traditional knowledge and education, evaluation of community and personal nutritional  condition, problems
relating to the collection of food samples from food stored in homes and food consumed  by members of family and
a person and interpretation of data.
Criterion of the different stage in a food system :  application of home nutritional condition indicator, existing
nutritional data, collection of nutritional condition data from groups of  regional, social and economical organizations
of rural and estate sector, concept of declaration of malnutrition against risk and trend, socio-economic relations
associate with growth of population, control of population.
Summarization of past and present main nutrition and health policies, provisions made through these policies
towards nutrition and health condition, rice ration, food stamp, primary health protection network, effect of International
Rural Development Project (IRDP) of Mahaveli Project on food systems and nutrition condition etc., inter – relations
at district / divisional level and home level, communication network, exchange of ideas to higher ranks.
Involvement of nutrition and health sectors in Sri Lanka, review of previous projects and future projects.
Fifth Appendix
* Requirements to be fulfilled by the Officers for the pass in third Efficiency Bar.
* Completed a written research thesis recognized by the committee for Deciding the Recognition of Post – Graduate
Qualifications of the Department of Agriculture.
* The composition of the Committee for Deciding the Recognition of Post – Graduate Qualifications is as follows:
(1).  Director General of Agriculture (Chairman)
(2).  A representative of Secretary to the Ministry in – charge of the subject of
        Agriculture. (Member)
(3).  Director of Post Graduate Institute of Agriculture, University of Peradeniya.
(Member)
(4).  Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Peradeniya.(Member)
(5).  Executive Director of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Research Policy Council.
 (Member)
  
Sixth Appendix
Application for the Promotion to Grade II / Grade I of the Sri Lanka agricultural service (should be filled by the applicant
himself/ herself)
01. (a). Name of Applicant with Initials   :-
 (b).  Full Name of Applicant                 :-
02.   Date of Birth                                               :-
03.   Present official Address                           :-
04.   Recruitment Designation                   :-
05      (a). Date of Appointment to class II, Grade II or Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Agricultural Service  :-

<!-- page 35 -->

35AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.2014
(b). Date of  Appointment to Grade II of the Sri Lanka Agriculture Service  :-
(c). Method of  Recruitment            :- Limited/Open
06. Salary scale Assigned to Your Post :-
07.  (I). Present Salary scale :-
  (II). Particulars on reaching
the above Salary scale:-
08. Particulars on the Prescribed Efficiency  Bars
Efficiency  Bars and Date of Reaching Date of Completing Date of Promotion over
Salary scale the Examination or Degree Efficiency Bar
09.       How did you fulfill the qualifications for the promotion over ………… Efficiency  Bar ?
i. Obtaining post graduate qualifications.
ii.       Passing Efficiency bar examinations(write off the words inapplicable and indicate   the references of letters)
10.  Have you earned all salary increments falling due during last five years ?
11. Have you been subject to any disciplinary punishment during the period of five years  before qualifying for the
promotion? Indicate the schedule of the volume II of the  Establishments code to which the offence included in and the
date of committing the   offence.
12. State the particulars of no-pay leave availed by you from your first appointment.
                                  Period of No-pay leave     Total period
From  -  To           Years                     Months                   Days
13. i. Date of completing a period of ten year /seven year active service after deducting the period of no-pay leave
indicated in the paragraph 12 above .
ii. Date of completing the qualifications as per paragraph 10 above.
 iii. Date of completing the qualifications subject to the above paragraph.
14.  Date of applying for promotion to Grade II / Grade I of the Sri Lanka Agricultural
            Service.
15. I hereby certify that I have fulfilled the all qualifications for the promotion to Grade II/ Grade I of the Sri Lanka
Agricultural Service from the date mentioned under paragraph 14 above, and the particulars furnished by me from
paragraph 1-14 above are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
……………………….
Date : ………………....... Signature of Applicant
10 - 242
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA