

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1950$47 - 2016 ckjdß ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'01'21
No.1950/47  - THURSDAY   JANUARY   21,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Western Province Provincial Council
Order Pertaining to the Delegation of powers of the Western Provincial Public Service under the section 32(2a) of the
Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 as amended by the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act No. 28 of 1990
WHEREAS the Governor of the Western Province by his order published in the Extra Ordinary Gazette Notification No. 1859/32
dated 24.04.2014 delegated to the Western Provincial Public Service Commission, the power of appointment, transfer, dismissal
from service and disciplinary control of officers of the Western Provincial Public Service ;
From and out of  the powers so delegated, the powers to the extent provided for in each Schedule, from Schedules
01 to 07 hereto, are hereby delegated to the officers specifically mentioned in column 1 of each of the said Schedules, being
powers pertaining to the appointment, transfer, dismissal and disciplinary control as are specified in corresponding column
III of the Schedules, in respect of the categories of public officers  as specified in column II of the Schedule thereto, in
conformity with the provisions in clause 32 (2a) of the Provincial Coucils Act No. 42 of 1987 as amended by the Provincial
Councils Act, No. 28 of 1990. Provided however, in the event of any question arising in respect of any delegation or as to the
implementation of the delegation hereof, made by the Western Provincial Public Service Commission, the decision of the  said
Commission shall be final and conclusive. The Commission hereby directs that in the course of implementing the powers
hereby delegated, to the Provincial Chief Secretary or to any officer by the Western Pronvicial Public Service Commission, all
the decisions taken by such officer shall be implemented subject to the provisions in clause 32 (2a) and 32 (2b) of the
Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 as amended by the Provincial Councils (Amended) Act, No. 28 of 1990.
The said Commission specifically directs hereby that whoever officer to whom the afore-mentioned powers have
been delegated, they, at all times of implementing the powers so delegated to them, shall act in accordance with the Procedural
Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service made by the Governor of the Western Province acting in terms of clause 32 (3)
of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and also in conformity with the Establishment Code any conditions rules,
regulations and with other procedural rules decided upon from time to time by the Governor of the western province and the
Western Provincial Public Service Commission.
Provincial Councils Notifications

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2016
2A
In the Course of the implementation of the powers delegated, any party dissatisfied shall have the righ to appeal to
the Western Provincial Public Service Commission. Further the powers, in addition to those specified in Schedules 01 to 07
hereto, and delegated by Order of the Governor, Western Province, by Extra-Ordinary Gazette Notification No. 1859/32
dated 24.04.2014 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, it is hereby further directed, shall be implemented by the
Western Provincial Public Service Commission.
In accordance with the decision of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission dated 01.12.2015, it is hereby
specifically directed  that the afore mentioned delegation of powers shall  be implemented with effect from the 01st of January
2016 and that the previous delegation of powers is hereby revoked, without detriment to any measures taken under or
considered to have been taken under any such delegated power.
K. S
ARATH GUNA THILAKE,
Chairman,
Provincial Public Service Commission
Western Province.
Provincial Public Service Commission,
Western Province,
109, Main Street, Battaramulla,
On this 23rd day of December 2015.
Schedule No. 01
Column I Column II Column III
Officer Whom Officers' Category Delegated Powers
Delegated
1. Chief Secretary (I) Officers belong to All Island (a) Appointments and Placements to the
Services posts of Ministries, Departments and
Institutes in Western Provincial Council.
(II) Of ficers belong to All Island (a) Disciplinary control (Subject to the orders
Services (except Educational of the Public Service Commission)
Administrative Service)
(III) Where the Public Service (a) Transfers among Ministries, Departments
Commission of the Western and Institutions.
Province is the appointing (b) Dismissal and disciplinary control
authority : -
(i) Officers belong to SL salary
group
(except the posts of SL salary
group limited to local
government authorities)
(IV) Where the Public Service (a) Transfers and disciplinary control among
Commission of the Western the Chief Secretariat and institutions
Province is the appointing affiliated to the Chief Secretariat
authority :- (b) Transfers among Ministries, Departments
and Institutions
(i) Officers not belonging to SL
salary group

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2016
(V) Officers belong to salary groups ( a) Appointments to the posts, establishment
MT-1, MN-1 and PL matters and transfers, dismissals and
disciplinary control of the officers belonging
to the Chief Secretariat in the Western
Province and to the institutions affiliated
to the Chief Secretariat
(b) Transfers among Ministries and
Departments expcept local government
authorities.
(c) Taking action in relation to inter-provincial
attachments/ release of minor employees.
Note :- "Subject to the orders of the Public Service Commission" means, functionning in complinace with orders which have
already been made and likely to be made in the future by the Public Service Commission.
Schedule No. 02
Column I Column II Column III
Office Whom Officer's Category Delegated Powers
Delegated
1. Secretary to the (I) Officers Where the Public ( a) Dismissal and disciplinary control of
Governor Service Commission of the officers of the respective office.
Western Province is the
appointing authority
2. Secretary to the (II) Officers belonging to salary groups ( a) Appointment to the posts of the respective
Provincial Public MT-1, MN-1 and PL office and establishment activities
Service Commission
3. Secretary to the ( b) Dismissal and disciplinary control
Provincial Council
Schedule No. 03
Column  I Column II Column III
Officer Whom Officers' Category Delegated Powers
Delegated
1. Secretaries to all (I) Officers Where the Public ( a) Transfer of officers of the respective
Ministries Service Commission of the Ministry and its Departments, between
Western Province is the appointing the Minisry and its Departments.
auhority.
(b) Dismissal and disciplinary control of the
officers belong to the Ministry and the
Departments under the Ministry.
(except SL salary group)
Column I Column II Column III
Office Whom Officers' Category Delegated Powers
Delegated
Schedule No. 01 Continued .....

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2016
4A
Note :
Except dismissal and disciplinary control of
the officers of the recruitment grade in
health services, coming under the purview
of the Departments of Ayurveda and of the
Health Services.
(II) Officers belong to salary groups : (a) Appointments to the posts, transfers and
MT-1 and MN-1 establishment matters of the respective
Ministry and its Departments.
(b) Dismissal and disciplinary control
(III) Officers belong to PL salary (a) Appointments and transfers to the posts
group of the respective Ministry and the
Departments.
(b) Establishment matters, dismissal and
disciplinary control (except the Departments
of Health and of Ayurveda)
Note:-
In addition to above powers the following schedules also applicable :
Schedule No. 04 - the subject of Education
Schedule No. 05 - the subject of Local Government
Schedule No. 07 - the subject of Health
Schedule No. 04
Column  I Column II Column III
Officer Whom Officers' Category Delegated Powers
Delegated
1. The Secretary to the (I) Sri Lanka Educational ( a) Dismissal and disciplinary control (Subject
Provincial Ministry of Administrative Service to the orders of the Public Service
Education Commission)
(In addition to the (II) Sri Lanka Principals'  Service ( a) Appointments and Placements to the posts
powers in the above
Scheudle  No. 03) ( b) Dismissal and disciplinary control
2. The Provincial Director (I) Western Provincial Government ( a) Transfers among zones
of Education Teachers' Service
(II) Officers belong to MN-1 and PL ( b) Dismissal and disciplinary control
salary group
Column  I Column II Column III
Officer Whom Officers' Category Delegated Powers
Delegated
Schedule No. 03 Continued .....

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2016
3. The Zonal Director of (I) Western Provincial Government (a) All establishment matters including grade
Education T eachers' Service to grade promotions and retirement
(except appointments to grade 3-I and
grade 2-II)
(b) Transfers within the zone
(II) Officers belong to PL salary (a) Transfers within the zone
Group
Note :- "Subject to the orders of the Public Service Commission" means, functionning in complinace with orders which have
already been made and likely to be made in the future by the Public Service Commission.
Column  I Column II Column III
Office Whom Officers' Category Delegated Powers
Delegated
Schedule No. 05
Column I Column II Column III
Officer Whom Officers' Category Delegated Powers
Delegated
1. The Secretary to the (I) The officers belonging to the SL (a) Dismissal and disciplinary control
Ministry of Local salary group in the local Govt.
Government authorities where the public service
Commission of  the Western
Province is the appointing authority.
(In addition to the (II) Supra grade officers in the (a) Appointments to the posts of Secretary in
powers in the above Provincial Public Management Pradeshiya Sabhas.
Scheudle  No. 03) Assistant Service of Western (b) Appointments and transfers to the Posts of
Province administrative officer in local government
authorities.
(c) Dismissal and disciplinary control
(III) The officers belong to the MN-7 (a) Dismissal and disciplinary control
salary group in the local govern-
ment authorities where the Public
Service Commission of the Western
Province is the appointing authority
2. The Commissioner (I) The officers where the Public Service (a) Transfer of officers belong to local
of  Local Government C ommission of the Western Province government authorities, among the
is the appointing authority department and local government
(Expect the power authorities
delegated to chief
Secretary and to the (II) The officers where the Public Service
Local Government Commission of the Western (a) Dismissal and disciplinary control
Secretary) Province is the appointing authority
(except SL and MN-7 salary groups)
(III) Officers belong to PL salary group (a) Dismissal and disciplinary control
(IV) Holders of post where the (a) Make provisions for recruitment to the local
administrative authority of the government authorities on consensus of the
local government authorities is relevant heads of local government authorities
the appointing authority. and the current holders of office, where
special provisions for such recruitment have
been provided for
Schedule No. 04 Continued .....

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'21
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2016
6A
Column  I Column II Column III
Officer Whom Officer's Category Delegated Powers
Delegated
1. Municipal
Commissioners
2. Secretaries to the Urban
Councils
3. Secretaries to the
Pradeshiya Sabhas
(I) officers belong to
salary groups MT-3, RS-1, RS-2,  MN-1
and PL
On the consent and agreement of the
Executive Head of local government
authorities:-
(a)Appointment to the posts in the
respective institution, transfers within
the area of authority, and establish-
ment matters.
(c)Dismissal and disciplinary control.
Column  I Column II Column III
Office Whom Officers' Category Delegated Powers
Delegated
1. Secretary to the Provincial
Ministry of Health
(In addition to the powers
in Schedule No. 03)
2. Director of Provincial
Health Service
3. The Commissioner of
Provincial Ayurveda
4.The Regional Director of
Health Service
02 - 172
(I) Where the Public Service Commission of
the Western Province is the appointing
authority:-
(i) The officers belonging to MP
Salary group
(a) Transfers within the province
(b) Dismissal and disciplinary control.
(I) The officers where the Public Service
Commission of the Western Province is
the appointing authority. (Except the
MP Salary group)
(II)Officers belonging to PL
salary group
(I) Officers belonging to PL salary group
(a) Transfers within the Department
(b) Dismissal and disciplinary control
of the officers in the recruitment
grade belonging to the Department
of Ayurveda/Health Service.
(a) Transfers and establishment
matters among the district and
within the department.
(b) Dismissal and disciplinary control.
(a) Transfers within the district.
Schedule No. 06
Schedule No. 07
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.