

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2281$33 - 2022 uehs ui 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'05'27
No. 2281/33 -  friDay,  may   27,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 5847 - 66 (05/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.D.B 21/78 (XVi) (B) 
ThE UNIvERSITIES  ACT,  No. 16 Of 1978
                  
OrDiNaNce  made by the University Grants commission under Section 18 of the Universities act, No. 16 of 1978.
 
                                                                                                                               Secretary,
 University Grants commission.
colombo, 
24th may, 2022.
Ordinance
The University of colombo, institute for agro Technology and rural Sciences Ordinance, No. 2 of 2008. published in Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1571/15 of October 16, 2008 is hereby amended as follows :-
 
 (1). By the repeal of sub paragraph (1) of paragraph 8 thereof and the substitution therefor the following :-

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.05.2022
2a
	 	 “(1)	 The	Director	shall	be	the	principal	executive	officer	and	the	principal	academic	officer	of	the	Institute.	He	
shall	be	an	ex-officio	member	of	the	Board,	the	Academic	Syndicate	and	all		Boards	of	Study	of	the	Institute.	The	
Director shall, in addition to his own vote at any meeting of the Board, the academic Syndicate and the Boards 
of	Study	of	the	Institute,	have	a	casting	vote.	He	shall	be	entitled	to	be	present	and	speak	at	any	meeting	of	any	
other authority or Body of the institute but shall not be entitled to vote at any such meeting unless he is a member 
of such authority or Body.” ;
 (2). by the repeal of paragraph 10 thereof and the subsitution therefor of  the following :-
  “10. The Board shall be the academic and executive body of the institute and shall consist of -
  
(1).		ex-officio	members,	namely	:-
     
(a)  the Director, who shall be the chairperson;
(b)  the Deputy Director;
(c)		 the	Secretary	to	the	Ministry	of	the	Minister	assigned	the	subject	of	Higher	Education	or	his	
nominee;
(d)  the Secretary to the ministry of the minister assigned the subject of agriculture or his nominee;
(e)  the Secretary to the ministry of the minister assigned the subject of finance or his nominee;
(f)  the Dean of the faculty of Science of the University;
(g)  the Dean of the faculty of Technology of the University;
(h)		 the	Heads	of	the	Departments	of	Study	of	the	Institute;
(i)		 the	Head	of	the	Department	of	Plant	Sciences	of	the	Faculty	of	Science	of	the	University	or	his	
nominee with the concurrence of the Vice-chancellor; and
(2)  other members, namely :-
(a)  two members appointed by the commission to represent the agro-Technology and agribusiness 
industries;
(b)  two members appointed by the council from among its members ;
(c)		 the	District	Secretary	of	the	Hambantota	District	or	his	nominee	;
(d)  one member appointed by the academic Syndicate from amongst its members; and
(e)  two agricultural experts appointed by the council, on the recommendation of the Vice chancellor.”;
(3)  by the repeal of paragraph 16 thereof and the substitution therefor of the following:-
	 "16.	 The	Board	of	study	in	respect	of	Research	and	Higher	Degrees	shall	consist	of	-
(a)  the Director who shall be the chairperson;
(b)		 the	Head	of	each	Department	of	Study;
(c)  the co-ordinators of each centre or their nominees;
(d)  one representative nominated by each Department of Study and one representative nominated by 
each centre engaged in research and Development or Postgraduate Teaching;
(e)		 the	members	appointed	by	the	Academic	Syndicate	to	co-ordinate	each	identified	programme;
(f)		 the	Head	of	the	Department	of	Plant	Sciences	of	the	Faculty	of	Science	of	the	University	or	another	
teacher of that Department who shall be nominated by the Vice chancellor; and
(g)		 the	Head	of	the	Department	of	Agricultural	Technology	of	the	Faculty	of	Technology	of	the	
University or another teacher of that Department who shall be nominated by the Vice chancellor.”
eOG 05 - 0134
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.