

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1871$45 – 2014 cQ,s 18 jeks isl=rdod – 2014'07'18
No. 1871/45 – FRIDAY,  JULY 18, 2014
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – 19929 – 36 (2014/07)
My No.: CI/656
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Asbestos Cement Industries Limited, No. 175, Sri Sumanatissa Mawatha, Colombo 12 and
its Factory at Katukurunduwatta Road, off Templers Road, Ratmalana of the one part and the Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya, 493/1,
T.B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 of the other part on 14th day of March 2013 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial
Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
W. J. L. U. WIJAYAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner  of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
27th June, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 14 of 2013
AGREEMENT BETWEEN ASBESTOS CEMENT INDUSTRIES LIMITED AND
SRI LANKA NIDAHAS SEV AKA SANGAMAYA
This Agreement entered into at Colombo on this Fourteenth day of March Two Thousand and Thirteen, pursuant to the Industrial
Disputes Act between THE ASBESTOS CEMENT INDUSTRIES LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as “THE EMPLOYER”) having its
registered Office at No. 175, Sri Sumanatissa Mawatha, Colombo 12 and its factory at Katukurunduwatta Road, Off Templers Road,
Ratmalana and SRI  LANKA  NIDAHAS  SEV AKA  SANGAMAYA having its registered office at 493/1, T.B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo
10 (hereinafter referred to as “THE UNION”) is as follows:

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
1. Employer Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind Messrs. Asbestos Cement Industries Limited,  Liability Company
incorporated in Sri Lanka and having its registered Office at 175, Sri Sumanatissa Mawatha, Colombo 12 as EMPLOYER.
2. Employees Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind Members of the Union who are employed as permanent
employees in a manual or labouring capacity by the Company but will not be applicable to employees employed in such capacities as who
are on probation or are employed by the day or by the job.
3. Earlier Agreements.–
(a) Whereas the Employer and Commercial and Industrial Workers’ Union have entered into an Agreement on 27th August 1993
in the presence of the Commissioner of Labour.
(b) And whereas the employer and Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya  have entered into an Agreement on 9th January 1998
and published in the Extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1032/7 of 16.06.1998.
 2. The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of earlier Agreements referred to in Para 3 (1).
above except the Agreement referred to in Para 3 (1) (a).
4. Date of Operation and Duration of Agreement.–  This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of December Two
Thousand and twelve shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving six month’s notice in writing to the other,
provided expressly that one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the First day of June, Two Thousand and fifteen
and such notice shall not expire before the 30th day of November, Two Thousand and fifteen.
(a) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lanka Rupee under any provision of law, a party shall be at liberty
to abrogate this Agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other after having discussion with the party
concerned in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
5. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this Agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall come into bring at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
(a) Standing Orders
On any matter not expressly provided for in this Agreement, the Worker shall be bound by the Standing orders and rules of
the Company in force from time to time and such standing orders and rules shall be deemed to form part and parcel of the
Contracts of employment of each worker.
6. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months.
Provided however that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee,
the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the
Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended proba tion
Employer shall have the right to terminate the service of the Employee without notice.
If the Employee's services are not terminated for unsatisfactory service during the period of probation or extended probation and the
Employee has not been confirmed by the Employer the Employee shall be deemed to be confirmed in his Employer's service with effect from
the day on which the period of probation or extended probation as the case may be ended.
7. Attendance.–
(1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on every day (other
than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
(2) If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
Employer where work is available.
(3) Irregular attendance or un-punctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
(4) The Employer shall be entitled to take disciplinary action including termination of employment in respect of habitual
absenteeism of an Employee.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
3A
8. Hours of Work.– There shall be four shifts of work in the factory and the hours of work of such shifts shall be those hours
presently worked on each of these four shifts:
The first three shall be on a rotation basis effected weekly and the Employees of these shifts shall be required to work on any of these
shifts according to the exigencies of the Employer's requirements. The Employer may change the hours of work at its discretion, by prior
notice.
9. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer an Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
10. Overtime.–
(1) If required by the Employer an Employee shall work reasonable overtime, which has been authorized by the Employer.
Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation, which is acceptable to the Employer, shall
constitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
(2) Overtime work (i.e. work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one half (1 1/2) times
the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of 18 (a) hereof.
The rate of overtime payment is arrived at by dividing the wages  by 240 hours.
11. Weekly Holidays.–
(1) In respect of each week very Employee shall be allowed a holiday on the Sunday in that week as the weekly holiday. Provided
however that if any Employee has not worked for a period  of at least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any period of
overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day's wage in
respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 18(b) hereof.
(2) The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject  to the following conditions–
 (i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided however that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day's wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in subclause (1) then and
in such event that Employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day's wage computed in
accordance with the provisions of clause 18(b) here of in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that
Employee within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further that in respect of not more than two (2) such
weekly holidays in any one calendar month the Employer may with the consent of the Employee–
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that
employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as
aforesaid pay him one day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 18 (b) hereof in lieu
of such alternate holiday, or
(b) In case that employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as
aforesaid in respect of which alternate holiday, he shall be liable to forfeit and the employer shall be entitled
to deduct a day’s wage as aforesaid employ that employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) That in respect of work done on such weekly holidays, the employee shall be paid as remuneration
 –
(a) One and a half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertain in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18
(a)  hereof for the number of hours worked during the first eight (8) hours; and
(b) At  double the normal hourly rate ascertain in accordance with the provisions of Clause  18 ( a) hereof for
each subsequent hour of work.
(3) The provisions of this sub-clause shall not apply to Employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the
Employer for periods exceeding twelve (12) days in respect of the duration of each such period.
(4) Saturday shall be a Half working day (working time - 5 hours) each week.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
(5) In computing the period of 28 hours, every day on which an Employee is on no pay shall not be reckoned for the purpose
of computing the said 28 hours.
(6) An Employee must work for 28 hours in a week  to be entitled for the weekly holiday and in computing the period of 28
hours the Employer shall include:
(a) Every holiday allowed and approved by the employer to the Employee as annual holiday , casual leave and sick
leave, and
(b) Every public holiday granted by the employer in terms of Clause 13 of the Collective Agreement.
12. Annual Holidays.– Annual Holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board
for the Engineering Trade.
13. Public Holidays.- (1)  Public holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with the decisions of the  Wages Board
for the Engineering Trade. Provided  however that an Employee may be employed on Public  holiday in accordance with the decisions of the
Wages Board for the Engineering Trade.
(2) If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day either
in the six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall be granted
to the employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of Clause 11  hereof.
(3) If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Saturday, the number
of hours constituting the normal working day on the day immediately preceding such public holiday  shall be five(05)
hours.
14. Casual leave.-
 (1) In respect of each year of employment during which any employee has been continuously in employment that
employee shall be entitled to take  on account of private business or other reasonable cause, including ill- health
of that Employee’s entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilised, leave (hereinafter referred to as “casual leave”) with
remuneration for the period or an aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such
Casual leave and shall be liable to pay such remuneration provided however that not more than two (2) days casual leave
shall be taken at any one time save and except upon the ground of ill health. Provided further that any worker shall not be
entitled to take casual leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period of annual holidays.Provided
further that in respect of any employee/s first year of employment including any period of probation he shall be entitled to
casual leave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months’ service.
(2) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the employee being required to state the reason for the
application. where an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave, his difficulty shall be notified to the
employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the employee may be required to state the reason
for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him casual
leave.
15. Sick leave.- In any year an employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty-one (21) days. Provided that:
(a) His illness is supported by a certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by the  Employer), and
(b) The Employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause (6) hereof. Provided however that an Employee
who has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of
employment be entitled to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and sick
leave not exceeding five (05) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ porbation.
16. Monthly Consolidated  Wages.–
(1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 17 hereof, as from the First Day of December Two Thousand and Twelve each
Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained, a monthly consolidated wage
on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto include.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
5A
(a) The Allowance of Twenty Five (25) per cent upto a maximum of Fifty Rupees (Rs. 50/-) per month payable in terms of
Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers’ Law (No. 1) of 1978 and the Allowance of Fifty Five Rupees (Rs. 55/-) per
month payable in terms of the Supplementary Allowance of Workers’ Act, No. 65 of 1979.
(b) A Sum of Rupees One Hundred and Fifty (Rs. 150/-).
(c) A Sum of Rupees Four Hundred (Rs. 400/-) in terms of the Extra Ordinary Gazette No. 1143/9 of 31.07.2000.
and all other staturory allowances payable in law as at this date
(3) This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
(4) ( a) At the expiry of the twelve month period commencing from the First day of November Two thousand and twelve the
scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto shall be revised by addition to and consolidation with
the salary at each stage of each grade of an amount in Sri Lanka Rupees equal to the number of complete points by which
the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index figure has increased during such twelve month period, multiplied by sixty seven
(67), and the salary payable to each Employee under this Agreement shall accordingly be increased by a like amount as
from the First day of November Two thousand and thirteen.
At the expiry of each twelve month period commencing from the First day of November Two Thousand and thirteen the
scales of  consolidated wages revised in the manner prescribed above shall be revised in like manner as from the First day
of November of the succeeding year by addition to and consolidation with the wage at each stage and grade of the
consolidated wages in force in the twelve month period immediately preceding of an amount equal to the number of
complete points by which the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index has increased during such preceding twelve month
period, multiplied by sixty seven (67) and the salary of each Employee as from the First day of November of the
succeeding year shall be increased by a like amount during the continuance in froce of this Agreement.
(5) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka
(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging the
Emlolyer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and in
terms of such written law;
(b) Recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the Emloyer, irrespective of whether or
not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
17. Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages.–
(1) For the purpose of ascertaining the wages which an Employee shall receive with effect from the 1st December 2012 on
the basis of scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto, the following provisions, subject to the
provisions of clause (16) hereof, shall apply.
(2) The wages for the month of November 2012 have been consolidated at 113 points of the Colombo Consumers’ Price
Index. An employee who is covered and bound by this agreement and has also in employment as at the effective date of
Agreement will receive an immediate increase of 21% of the wages for the month of November 2012, from the effective
date. The increments on a % age scale will not be a norm in the future.
The employee will receive an additional wage increase of Rs. 1,250/- for the Financial Year 2013/2014 and another
Rs. 1,275/- for the Financial Year 2014/2015 effective from 1st April each year.
(3) Each Employee will then be placed on the exact point of the wage scale applicable to him in the Second Schedule hereto
or on the next higher stage if there is no corresponding wage point on the wage scale in the Second Schedule hereto.
(4) When an employee reaches the maximum scale in the consolidated wages set out in the second schedule hereto due to the
special wage increase, such employee will be placed on the appropriate steps beyond the maximum scale.
 (5) The consolidated wages set out in the second schedule hereto will not be applicable to the Permanent employee who will
be employed after this date of agreement and such employee will be paid a monthly wage as follows:
Monthly Wage Annual Increment
Skilled Rs. 13,951/- 250/-
Semi Skilled Rs. 13,886/- 175/-
Un Skilled Rs. 13,879/- 150/-

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
18. Wages for Periods Less Than One Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any Employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following–
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240);
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30);
(c) for one - half day (either morning or afternoon) a day's wage ascertained as above divided by two (2);
(d) for one week a day's wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7).
19. Non - Recurring cost of Living Gratuity.–
 (1)  As the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Second Schedule hereto have been fixed on the basis of the Colombo
Consumers' Price Index being 113 an Employee shall subject to the provisions of the succeeding sub-clause be entitled to
receive and the Employer shall be liable to pay a non-recurring cost of living gratuity to the Employee in each year in respect
of the preceding twelve (12) months (01 November to 31 October hereinafter referred to as "the qualifying period")
commencing from the First day of November Two thousand and twelve ascertained in accordance with the under noted
formula.
                      The Formula :
 If the average of the Colombo Consumers' Price Index for the qualifying period exceeds 113 a sum computed at Rupees
Sixty Seven (Rs. 67) for each complete point (i.e. 1.0) by which such average exceeds 113 respect of each month of service
during the qualifying period.
(2) When at the expiry of each twelve month period commencing on the First day of November Two thousand and twelve the
scales of consolidated wages have been revised in manner set out in clause 16 (4) hereof, the base index figure in the formula
for the purpose of calculating the non-recurring cost of living gratuity shall thereafter be increased by the number of points
by which the Colombo Consumers' Price Index figure has risen during each twelve month period as specified in clause 16
(4) hereof.
(3) The non-recurring cost of living gratuity shall be payable by the employer to an Employee who is eligible to receive the
same by virtue of his service under the Employer during a part of the qualifying year by reason of the fact that he is not in
the Employer's service when the non-recurring cost of living gratuity becomes due in November of any year or he joined
that Employer's service during the course of the qualifying year.
(4) The non-recurring cost of living gratuity shall not be payable to an Employee in respect of any period for which he receives
no wages for whatever reason.
(5) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on the non-recurring cost of
living gratuity.
20. Provident Fund.–
(1) The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees' Provident
Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Employees' Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980, where the Employer and Employee as at the
date hereof were contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employees'
Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
21. Terminal Benefits.–
(1) Employer will subject as hereinafter provided pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with the scheme of
terminal benefits set out in this Clause.
(2) The scheme shall apply to every Employee in the service of the Employer on the First day of December two thousand and
twelve so long as this Agreement continues in force.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
7A
            (3)  The basis of the payment of Terminal Benefits shall be as follows:
(a) Employees with service not exceeding five years Nill
(b) Employees with service exceeding five years but Half month's terminal Wages for each  completed years of service
not exceeding twenty years
(c) Employees with service exceeding twenty years For the 1st 20 years service  1/2 month's terminal wages for
but not exceedig twenty five years each completed year of service and 3/4th month's wages for each
completed year of service for the period exceeding 20 years
(d) Employees with service exceeding twenty five (i)  1/2 month's terminal wages for each completed year of
years service For the 1st 20 years service.
(ii) 3/4 month’s Terminal wages for each completed year of
service for the period exceeding 20 years but not eceeding
25 years.
(iii) 1 month’s Terminal wages for each completed year of
service for the period exceeding 25 years.
(4) If and  employee dies due to natural or accidental death whilst in service, the Terminal Benefits payable to him will be increased
by 25%.
(5) The wage on which the said Terminal Benefits shall be payable will be the last consolidated monthly wage receivable by an
Employee.
(6) Part of the period of Half year shall be reckoned as half year in computing the service of an employee.
(7) For the purpose of calculating Terminal Benefits under this Clause and year of service shall be a period of not less than Six
months.
(8) The Terminal Benefits provided for in this Clause shall be payable to an Employee on the  cessation of his service arising from
death or any other cause whatsoever. Provided however that if at the date of cessation of an Employee’s service there is due to
the Employer from the Employee any sum on account of fraud, misappropriation, any outstanding loan or liability or any other
account and the same cannot be recovered from the amount in the Employee’s credit in the Provident Fund the same shall be
recovered from the Terminal benefits provided for herein and or the Thrift Fund for which the employer is contributing at 2.5%
of the employees wages which is taken into consideration for recovery of EPF/ETF.
(9) On the death of an employee whilst in service, who is eligible to receive terminal benefits under this Clause, the Employer shall
pay such terminal benefits in the manner and to the persons hereinafter set forth:
(a) If there is a valid nomination in force for the purpose of the deceased employee's Provident Fund at the date of his death,
to the nominee, or nominees of such employee in conformity with the form of  nomination where such nominee is surviving
and of full age.
(b) Where there is no valid nomination or in the event of the nominee or  any one or more of the nominees having predeceased
the employee, or in the event of a nominee being a minor at the time that the payment of the terminal benefits become due,
the Employer shall make payment only after the person or persons entitled to the  payment have established their claim in
law and furnished proof thereof.
(10) In the event of any written law providing for the payment of gratuity or terminal benefits the more favourable scheme shall
 apply but not both.
(11) No employee shall be entitled to any gratuity or terminal benefits in addition to the terminal benefits provided for in this Clause
 or by any written law as the case may be.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
22. Bonus.– The present scheme of the Payment of Annual Bonus to Employees which is an ex-gratia payment shall continue to be in
force as enumerated below:
(a) A SERVICE BONUS in a sum  equivalent to 1 1/2 month’s wage will be payable to each employee eligible for such payment
according to the present scheme and practice relating to such payment which shall be in two instalments payable in April
and December and the amount would be equivalent to 1/2 month’s wages of April and 01 month wages of December
respectively.
(b) A PROFIT AND ATTENDANCE BONUS  in a sum  equivalent to 20% of the consolidated wages erarned by such employee
during the Financial Year shall be payable in respect of each Financial Year.
(1) The payment of the said quantum of 1 1/2 months  SER VICE BONUS and the payment of the said quantum of
PROFIT AND ATTENDANCE BONUS  shall be conditional on the Employer Company declaring a dividend of 12%
or more for the Financial Year in respect of which the said Bonuses are payable.
(2) In the event of the dividend declared being less than 12% then the said Bonuses shall be paid on a pro-rata basis.
(c) A SPECIAL BONUS in a sum equivalent to 8% of the total consolidated wages earned by an employee during the preceding 12
months i.e. August to July provided that the dividend declared to the Shareholders in respect of such Financial Year is between
25%  and 35%.
(d) A SPECIAL BONUS in a sum equivalent to 8% of the total consolidated wages erarned by an employee during the preceding 12
months i.e. August to July provided that the Shareholders of the Company are issued any Bonus shars in respect of that Financial
Year.
(e) In the event of one of the  SPECIAL BONUSES set out in sub-clauses (c) or (d) above is not payable, then the  other of the
SPECIAL BONUSES shall be increased from 8% to 14% of the total consolidated wages earned by an employee during the
relevant Financial Year.
(f) If the dividend declared under Clause (c) exceeds 35% then the 8%  SPECIAL BONUSES shall be increased to 16%  of the total
consolidated wages earned by an employee during the preceding 12 months ie. August to July, However, the  SPECIAL
BONUSES shall be a maximum of 16%.
(g) An Attendance Incentive Bonus in a sum equivalent to 1/2 month’s wages of December will be payable in January to an
employee who did not exceed his leave entitlement in the preceding year (January to December).
(h) An Attendance Incentive Bonus in a sum equivalent to 1/2 month’s wages of December will be payable in January to an
employee who did not utilize his Casual and Sick Leave  in the preceding year (January to December) in addition to the
encashment of such leave.
            (i)    Consolidated wages for purposes of Bonus payment shall mean the consolidated wages as set out in the second schedule of the
 Collective Agreement. An employee who is in the employment of the Company at least one month before the dates of Bonus
 and    ex-gratia payments is entitled to receive such payments.
23. Annual Increments:–
(1) The Employer shall be entitled to defer, stop or suspend the Annual increment which is granted in April of an employee
for irregular attendance or unpunctuality without the necessity of an inquiry in the following instances:
(a) An employee with over 5 years of service  exceeding his leave entitlement by 15 days during the previous Calendar
Year.
(b) An employee with over 3 years of service but less than 5 years of service exceeding his normal leave entitlement
by 10 days during the previous Calendar Year.
(c) An employee with over 1 year of service but less than 3 years of service exceeding his normal leave entitlement by
5 days during the previous Calendar Year.
(d) An employee with over 6 months’ of service after confirmation not less than 1 year of  service exceeding his
normal leave entitlement by 3 days during the previous Calendar Year.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
9A
(2) The Employer shall be entitled to defer, stop or suspend the Annual Increment of an Employee as a matter of punishment
for general inefficiency or for any act of misconduct, after the Employee concerned has been served with a show cause
letter and has been found guilty after due inquiry.
(3) The employer may grant increments to those employees who have reached the maximum scale in the consolidated wages
set out in the second schedule hereto due to the special wage increases given in time to time not withstanding the fact that
he has already, reached the maximum scale.
(4) The employer may at its sole discretion grant  increments to those employees who have reached the maximum subject to
Para 3 above.
24. Warnings:– If in the opinion of the Employer, an offence warrants a warning, the same shall be conveyed to the Employee by a
letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate, the warning may be given to the
employee orally by the employer in the presence of two witnesses. In the alternative, the Employer may send the letter of warni ng to the
employee concerned by Registered Post.
25. Suspension.–
(1) An Employee may be suspended without pay  by the employer:–
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge of misconduct which warrants dismissal.
(b) In order to avoid a breach of peace or damage to the property or disturbance of the business of the Employer.
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding Seven (07) working days after due inquiry.
(2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1) ( a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide the
Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter hold an inquiry into
the charge or charges in terms of Clause 26 hereof.
26. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then–
(1) Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under clause 25 hereof or not, the Employee shall be furnished with
a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such Employee
and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than three (3) clear working days in which to give the answer or
explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
(2) Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however, that if in
the circumstances, it is reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by an Employee to the Employer,
the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(3) If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension, forthwith, be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
(4) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within ten (10) working days
from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
(5) After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except for
reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from
the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such
charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(6) If the Employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that –
(a) The Employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 25 (1) (c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespective
of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the charges in
the show cause notice.
(b) The Employee shall be dismissed, the Employee's dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee's suspension
and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer is
unable  to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authorities or if in view
of the serious or involved nature of the charges referred against the Employee the matter had been previously referred to
the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or inquiries be
awaited, then in either of such circumstances the Employee may remain suspended without pay.
(7) If any case  where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee's own seeking within thirty (30) working
days from the date of the Employee's suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for the
period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in excess
of thirty (30) days upto the date  on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-
clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(8) In any  case  where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a)
to (c) of sub-clause 6 within ninety (90) days of the suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from so doing by reason
of the Employees own seeking or for reasons beyond control of the Employer or it is agreed between the Employer and the
Union that in the circumstances of the case the period ninety (90) days be extended for such further time as may be agreed.
(9) The Employer  shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses (4) and (5) hereof where the Employer
proposes to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however that if the Union
disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an inquiry the
Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then apply subject  to
the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within  ten (10) working days after receipt of the Employee's
explanation shall not be material or relevant.
27. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however that an
Employee who has retired may, at the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed.
28. Termination of Service.–
(1) Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for work usually
performed by the day, or by the job, or by journey, shall subject to the provisions of Clause 6 hereof or unless otherwise
expressly stipulated be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month  and
to be renewable from month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month's
previous notice be given by either party to the other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work he shall be informed
thereof at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job
or period or on the failure of the Employee to complete the job within a reasonable time.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
11A
29. Union Recognition.– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of its members who are employed in any
work place of the Employer. In regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as matters affecting general terms and
conditions of employment either in the work place or the trade as a whole the following provisions shall apply
(1) When the Union is representative of not less than forty percentum (40%) of the employees whose membership subscrip
tion is not in arrears the Employer will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and negotiate with
it on that  basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty percentum (40%) of such
Employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and  matters be discussed and negotiated with all
the Unions competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership  and not separately with each such
Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one work place and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one work place but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in
the service  of the Employer the competence of the Union to make such claim or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of such Union  in proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of the
Employer in Sri Lanka.
(3) If it becomes necessary to decide the  question whether at the establishment of the Employer the Union  is competent to make
general claims  or raise  general matters the same  shall be determined by a referendum which shall be held by Department of
Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the Employer and that Union and the parties hereto.
30. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment, Benefits..–
(1) The union and its members and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they will not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the
terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement,
or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by
mutual agreement.
(2) The Employer agrees with the Union and its members and Employees covered and bound by this Agreement that he shall not
seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by the employees covered and bound by this
Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
(3) Any dispute or  difference arising from negotiation under the provisions of Sub-clause (1)  or (2)  may be resolved by
voluntary arbitration but only if  all the parties concerned agree to submit   such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS
GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO  THE  UNION
01. Breaches of Collective Agreement:- If  in the opinion of the Employer  the Union commits a breach of any of the terms of this
Collective Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the  facilities and concession granted by the
Employer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and the same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer's right to restore such
facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide.
02. Domestic Inquiries:- If  an  Employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 26 is a member of the Union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held  by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice.
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter  provided, allow a member  of such Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘Observer’’)
to be present as an Observer without loss of wages for absence   from work.
(b) If the Employee who is served with a show cause notice desires an Observer to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall at least forty eight (48)  hours before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any question which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a showcause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry in any manner
whatsoever to  withdraw there from and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry,
nor the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
(f) The word Observer in this Clause shall mean an Employee of the Employer who is a member of the Branch  Union.
3. Union Meetings.– The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union–
(a) In respect of each meeting which the Union desires to hold at the Employer's premises, an application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more of the under
noted conditions–
(i) That no person other than an employee in the service of the Employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the union, the office Bearers of the parent Union may, with the
previous approval of the Employer, attend;
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of such
Union is granted, are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of, or in connection
with, a meeting of the union to the Employer's property or any other persons at the Employer's premises  and the Union shall
indemnify the employer and keep the employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave.–
(1) The  following provisions shall apply to duty leave –
Without prejudice to the right of the employer to refuse to grant permission if, in his discretion, the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the employer will generally grant permission for not less than two Office Bearers of the Union–
(a) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Department of Labour in connection with a
dispute between the Union and the Employer,
or
(b) To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals, without loss of wages for such absence.
(2) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union Course or
Seminar or Conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is  entitled to annual or other holidays
which he wishes to utilise for the purpose.
5. Check Off.–
(1) In this clause ''Employer'' shall mean the Employer bound by this Collective Agreement in whose establishment the
membership of the Union is not less than forty percent (40%) of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective
Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall, on the written request  of an Employee, deduct from the wages due to such Employee the current monthly
Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee  to the Union and remit the amount so
deducted to the Union, in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
(3) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No. 1 hereinafter referred to as and ''Authorization'' as set out in the Second Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
13A
(4) Every Employee shall  be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check off at any time by signing a statement to that effect in
the form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as and ''Revocation'' as set out in the Second Schedule hereto.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by revocation.
(6) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorization.  Provided however–
(a) That the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with sub-clause (5) or (6)
(b) That, at his discretion, the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check off in any month in which
the deductions by  way of check off will together with all other deductions from  the employee's wages in  that month
exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor  of each
authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ''Account Payee''.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelope addressed to
the Treasurer of the union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf, as aforesaid, any sum other than the Union
dues actually deducted.
6. Trade Union Action.–  The Union shall undertake to respect the terms of the Agreement and not to seek to alter such terms other
than by negotiation. No strike or other form of Trade Union action could be undertaken.
If the executive committee of the Union is of opinion that certain actions of the employer are vindictive or detrimental to the interests
of the Union, it reserves the right to engage in strike or other form of Trade Union action. In such an event seven days notice of intended
action be given in writing to the employer and the commissioner of Labour.
7. Recoveries Due on the Cessation of Employment.– The Employer shall be entitled to recover any outstanding loan or liability
from the employee or the outstanding amount guaranteed by him at the time of another employee taking loan by a set off against any
payment such as terminal wages, terminal benefits, other than the amount payable in terms of the payment of  Gratuity Act, refund of Thrift
fund, encashment of unutilized leave etc.,  due to such employee at the time of cessation of employment.
8. Grievance Procedure.–
(a) Any Worker is free to make representations to the Management in respect of an individual grievance, dispute or other matter
and the procedure for settling the same is as follows:
(1) In the first instance, the matter shall be discussed with the Plant Assistant or Sectional Head as the case may be;
(2) If the matter is not settled by the Plant Assistant or Sectional Head, the Worker may then together with a Branch Union
Committee Member discuss the matter with the Personnel Superintendent;
(3) In the event of the matter not being satisfactorily settled at Stage (ii) the employee may together with a Branch Union
representative discuss the matter with the Personnel Manager.
(b) The Branch Union is free to make representations to the Employer in respect of any grievance or other matter affecting the
Workers concerned and bound by this agreement generally and the procedure for settling the same shall be as follows:
(i) The Branch Union shall submit the matter in writing to the Personnel Manager for settlement.
(ii) In the event of the matter not being satisfactorily settled at Stage (i) above, the Branch Union may make an appeal to the
Director or Managing Director.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
(c) In the event of the matter not being satisfactorily settled at Stage (b) above the Branch Union may take up the matter with the
Parent Union and it will be settled at the Management and Parent Union Meeting.
(d) In the event  the matter has not been satisfctorily settled at Stage (c) the Branch Union may with the Parent Union make an
appeal to the Board of Directors of the Company.
(e) In the event of the matter has not been satisfactorily settled at Stage (d) the Parent Union may on behalf of the Branch Union
make an appeal to the Commissioner or Labour.
FORM NO. 1
Name of Employer:
AUTHORISATION
 As I am an Employee covered and bound by the Collective Agreement effcting Employees employed in a manual or labouring capacity in
the                                      Trade and bearing No.                                         of 200 and I desire to avail mayself of the facility for check off
contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the                                  Union, please deduct from my wages
each month a sum of Rupees                                                                       (Rs.                               ) in respect of my current monthly membership
dues to the said Union and remit the same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made from my wages next
due immediately following the date hereof.
.............................................. ..............................................
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
..............................................
(Full name of Employee)
RECEIVED ON...................................................................................................................................................................................................
(To be filled by Employer)
FORM NO. 2
Name of Employer:
REVOCATION
 With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favou r of
................................ Union with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the date hereof.
.............................................. ..............................................
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
..............................................
(Full name of Employee)
RECEIVED ON...................................................................................................................................................................................................
(To be filled by Employer)

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
15A
SCALES OF MONTHLY WAGES CONSOLIDATED AT THE COST OF LIVING INDEX FIGURES AT 113 PAY ABLE TO
PERMENENT WORKERS WHO ARE IN EMPLOYEMNT AS AT Ist DECEMBER, 2012
Stage Unskilled Semiskilled Skilled 1
1 16879 16861 16951
2 17029 17036 17201
3 17179 17211 17451
4 17329 17386 17701
5 17479 17561 17951
6 17629 17736 18201
7 17779 17911 18451
8 17929 18086 18701
9 18079 18261 18951
10 18229 18436 19201
11 18379 18611 19451
12 18529 18786 19701
13 18679 18961 19951
14 18829 19136 20201
15 18979 34 19311 34 20451 34
16 19129 X 19486 X 20701 X
17 19279 Rs. 150/- 19661 Rs.175/- 20951 Rs. 250/-
18 19429 19836 21201
19 19579 20011 21451
20 19729 20186 21701
21 19879 20361 21951
22 20029 20536 22201
23 20179 20711 22451
24 20329 20886 22701
25 20479 21061 22951
26 20629 21236 23201
27 20779 21411 23451
28 20929 21586 23701
29 21079 21761 23951
30 21229 21936 24201
31 21379 22111 24451
32 21529 22286 24701
33 21679 22461 24951
34 21829 22636 25201
35 21979 22811 25451
Starting Wages 13879 13886 13951
Minimum Increase 3000 2975 3000
––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
16879 16861 16951

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
PART III
Containing Definitions of Certain Words
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject or context the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to them–
Words meanings
Branch Union The Branch Union of a Union or Unions covered and bound by this Collective  Agreement.
Check Off The act of the Employer deducting, at the request of the Union, subscription payable to the
Union by an Employee from the latter's pay with his concurrence.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee (for convenience sometimes An E mployee covered and bound by this Agreement.
referred to as "he" or its grammatical
variations)
Employer (for convenience sometimes Subject to the provisions of Clause 5 of Part II hereof the Employer bound by this Agreement .
referred to as "he" or its grammatical
variations)
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an Employee would normally receive an increment.
Union or Unions A Union or the Unions covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
W age The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the Second Schedule hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the Succeeding Saturday night
Y ear A continuous period of twelve (12) months.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.
Date of Operation and Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall be effective as from the 1st of December, Two thousand and twelve and shall thereafter continue in force unless it is
determined by either party giving six month's notice in writing to the other, provided expressly that one party hereto shall no t give such
notice to the other party before the 30th of June, two thousand and fifteen and such notice shall not expire before the thirtie th day of
November two thousand and fifteen.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
17A
My No.: CA/State/01/2014.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between The Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, No. 385 J 3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya, of the one
part and The Ceylon Estates Staffs’ Union, No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 12th day of March, 2014 is hereb y
published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition
1956).
W. J. L. U. WIJAYAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner  of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
27th June, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 12 of 2014
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT – CLERICAL  STAFF
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between The Employers’ Federation of Ceylon of 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya,
of the First Part, and The Ceylon Estates Staffs’ Union, No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3, of the Second Part, made and entered into on the
Twelfth day of March Two Thousand Fourteen witnesseth as follows:
IN WITNESS OF THE ABOVE AGREEMENT the following persons have signed this AGREEMENT on behalf of the parties hereto at
Colombo on this 14th day of March, 2013.
08 - 216

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
1. Title : This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Clerical Staff Collective Agreement.
2. Employers Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon, whose names
are contained in Schedule 1 hereto and hereinafter referred to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be according to context, for and
in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in Clause 3 hereof.
3. Union and Employees Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter referred
to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by the members of the Federation referred to in Sechedule I on monthly
contracts of employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule II hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements.– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these
categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being any dispute with regard to the
existence of any other terms or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner Gen eral of
Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade union action on the basis
of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration.– Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shall be effective from 1st October
2013 and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial Disputes
Act, subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 30th September 2016.
6. General Terms and Conditions.–
(i) The terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by the
Agreement.
(ii) Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
(iii) Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer, Junior Clerks shall be re-designated as Clerks.
7. Probation.– On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the right
of the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatis factory
performance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period not
being extended after the period of 6 months, the employee shall be deemed to be confirmed notwithstanding there being no letter  of
confirmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notic e or
assigning reasons therefor.
8. First Appointment.– No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he has successfully completed the
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have experience in the
trade.
9. Attendance At Work.– Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work on
every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for
work throughout the normal working hours.
10. Promotions.–
(i) Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers shall
advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and qualifications to
make them eligible.
(ii) Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and if he is confirmed in the senior capacity, he will
not be required to serve a period of probation.
(iii) Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be communicated to
him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of 50% of the difference between his salary and that which was last
paid to the holder of such senior position, subject to a maximum of Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred (Rs. 1500/-) per
mensem.
(iv) Where the acting p eriod, other than in over looking positions, continue for 6 months the employer shall prior to the expiry
of 6 months, inform the employee in writing whether he is confirmed in the post or reverted to his substantive post.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
19A
11. Salaries.–
1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with effect from 1st October 2013 shall be as
follows:
(i) With effect from 1st October 2013, the salaries of all employees in employment as at the date of signing of this
Agreement shall be increased by 25% provided however, in respect of the period October 2013 to February 2014, it
is hereby agreed that the said increase will be regarded as notional arrears (without any consequential benefits such
as EPF, ETF, overtime etc.)
   (ii) ( a) The notional arrears payment will be paid in two equal installments. The Initial payment will be made prior
to the Sinhala/Tamil Year in April 2014 and,
(b) the second installment will be paid in June 2014.
(iii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary scales applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule II of this
agreement.
(iv) After revision effected in terms of (i) above the employees will be placed on the salary point on the salary range
applicable to his/her grade as set out in Schedule III hereof.
(v) In the case of Stenographers/Clerks and Storekeepers/Clerks who are presently entitled to an allowance on account
of work as a Stenographer or Storekeeper, as the case may be, such employee shall continue to receive his/her
allowances at the rate of 10% of the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if the additional
duties are not performed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this
allowance.
2. ( a) With effect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staff quarters being provided to
them, shall receive a 10% increment of the following allowances, depending on the grade to which they belong, and the
revised allowance will be as follows:
Junior Clerk - Rs. 1,020/- x 10%= Rs. 1,122.00
Clerk - Rs. 1,080/- x 10%= Rs. 1,188.00
Senior Clerk - Rs. 1,260/- x 10%= Rs. 1,386.00
Chief Clerk - Rs. 1,380/- x 10%= Rs. 1,518.00
Special Grade Chief Clerk/
Administrative Officer - Rs. 1,440/- x 10%= Rs. 1,584.00
(b) In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the Employer, such parson shall be liable to disciplin-
ary action.
12. Overtime.–  If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the
Employer. Overtime work shall be remunerated at one and a half times the normal hourly rate.
13. Weekly, Statutory and Poya Holidays.–   An employee will be entitled to holidays as provided for in the Shop and Office
Employees Act. Payment for work on such days shall be remunerated at the prescribed statutory rates.
14. Leave.–
(1) Annual Leave and Casual Leave shall be granted as prescribed in the Shop and Office Employees Act. All employees with
more than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to three weeks paid annual leave as a special benefit:
this right shall not extend to any employee recruited after 1st September, 1993.
(2) (i) S
ICK LEA VE – Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will be
granted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and over,
a medical certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner or Government Hospital shall be considered necessary,
subject to the right of the Employer to call for a medical certificate as a aforementioned, where he deems it
appropriate.
(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which
he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the condition
however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit a higher quantum of sick leave he/she shall be permitted
to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him/her.
(3) CASUAL LEA VE – All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay,
not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will not be carried over to the next
year.
15. Gratuity.– Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
16. Age of Retirement.–
(i) Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher retiral age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years and will be applicable
to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
(ii) However, an employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory work performance,
conduct or state of health of the employee. For this purpose “unsatisfactory work performance” shall include any act of
misconduct in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.
(iii) An employer who decides to retire an employee at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii) above shall give such
employee one year’s notice in writing or pay one year’s salary in lieu of such notice. Where such notice is not given and
the employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period, which misconduct would have
otherwise resulted in his retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be retired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the fact
that notice has not been given or payment made in lieu.
17. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment.–
(1) Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension shall
not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
(2) Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry.
18. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries .–
(1) An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary
inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges or misconduct against
him. Such suspension shall be in writing.
(2) Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shall
be on half pay.
(3) The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending
inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Verifications.
19. Administrative Transfers.–
(1) Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of a spouse, will, subject to the
exigencies of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one
month’s notice in writing.
(2) Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account of
children’s schooling or the spouses employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three months’ notice
in writing.
(3) Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred in that
particular year.
(4) No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to his
retirement.
(5) The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the
Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
21A
20. Annual Increments.–
(1) Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of a year's service. The increments will be awarded in
accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employees,
in the event of an employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which  increments are awarded, he
shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.
(2) An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after employee
has been notified in writing of such fact in the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas
stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
21. Disciplinary Inquiries .–
(1) An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal
or where, in the opinion of the employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs to
be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notified in a general manner of the reasons for such
suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
(2) An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management
deems that such measure is necessary.
(3) An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show cause' notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against him
and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation.
Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable amount of time
depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional circum-
stances.
(4) If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and
where appropriate he shall  be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employer
shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working
days from the date on which the explanation to the 'show cause' letter is received, unless circumstances prevent the
employer from doing so.
(5) An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the Inquiry. Such representative shall not be a
professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent of the
name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the Inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may object
to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The failure of an
employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
(6) The Employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days
from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the findings be
delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of a pending
criminal investigation. If no findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply, the accused
employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
(7) Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee
summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification for
summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.
22. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Disputes.–
(1) Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement,  they will not seek to vary, alter or add to an y
of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
(2) Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as
personal, but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consumption
of electricity, where a limit is fixed for all employees.
(3) Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General of
Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.
(4) It is agreed by and  between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members, shall not resort to any
form of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
23. Duty Leave.–
(1) Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other office bearer of the Parent Union will
be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
(2) Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated office bearer of the Parent Union,
as specified in sub clause (1) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between parties.
(3) By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave in
any one year.
(4) By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave
which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed of jointly by these
two Office Bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
PART II
1. The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement morefully described in Schedule I to this Agreement undertakes
to discuss with Unions to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/sub leasing of estates/divisions.
2. Electricity
Free electricity would be granted to members of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
ELEVA TION BELOW 4,500 FEET (FACTORY ELEV ATION)
Senior Staff – 140 units
Junior Staff (Inclusive of Minor Staff) – 100 units
Drivers – 75 units
ELEV ATION ABOVE 4,500 FEET (FACTORY ELEVATION)
Senior Staff – 170 units
Junior Staff (Inclusive of Minor Staff) – 130 units
Drivers – 105 units
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each estate.
Kerosene – Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensum to those employees resident on
estates/divisions without electricity.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
23A
3. Tea Allowance
The employer shall provide free tea, on the following basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits in those categories
presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
Senior Staff – 2 kgs
Junior Staff (Inclusive of Minor Staff) – 1 ½ kgs
Drivers – 1 kg
The staff members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or COP
whichever is lower.
Staff members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June, 1992 would be entitled t o
purchase a maximum of 3 kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever is lower with effect from 1st June, 2003.
4. Death Grant
1. With effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the dependants will be paid a sum of Rs. 50,000/- as funera l
expenses.
2. The dependants of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one month upon
the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependants hand over the staff quarters.
3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the dependants will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 months’ salary
within one month of the death of the staff member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme
A staff member who is a member of the staff medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in the fu nd
inclusive of the company’s contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her employment from the
estate.
24. Interpretation.–
Word Meaning
Union Means the union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.
Dispute S hall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer M eans a company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.
Week Means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.
Y ear Means a continuous period of 12 months.
Gender A reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
In Witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at Colombo on this Twelfth day of March Two Thousand
Fourteen.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
25A
SCHEDULE  I
Agalawatte Plantations PLC
Agarapatana Plantations Limited
Balangoda Plantations PLC
Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC
Elpitiya Plantations PLC
Elkaduwa Plantations Limited
Hapugastenne Plantations PLC
Horana Plantations PLC
Kahawatte Plantations PLC
Kegalle Plantations PLC
Kelani Valley Plantations PLC
Kotagala Plantations PLC
Madulsima Plantations PLC
Malwatte V alley Plantations PLC
Maskeliya Plantations PLC
Maturata Plantations Limited
Namunukula Plantations PLC
Pussellawa Plantations Limited
Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC
Udapussellawa Plantations PLC
Watawala Plantations PLC
SCHEDULE   II
CLERICAL  STAFF - SALARY  RANGES
Junior Clerk Rs. 19,269.00 - Rs. 33,040.00
Annual Increment 300
Clerk Rs. 19,482.00 - Rs. 36,511.00
Annual Increment 400
Senior Clerk Rs. 19,694.00 - Rs. 41,607.00
Annual Increment 500
Chief Clerk Rs. 20,675.00 - Rs. 54,002.00
Annual Increment 750
Special Grade Chief Clerk / Rs. 24,894.00 - Rs. 74,640.00
Administrative Officer Annual Increment 1000

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014


<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
27A


<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014


<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
29A


<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
08 - 217

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
31A
My No.:  CA/State/05/2014.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between  Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the one part and
the Ceylon Estates Staffs' Union, No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03  of the other  part on 12th day of March, 2014 is hereby published in
terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
W. J. L. U. WIJAYAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
27th June, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 16 of 2014
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT – MEDICAL STAFF
THIS  COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the
First part and the Ceylon Estates Staffs' Union, No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03  of the Second  part made and entered into on the Twelfth
day of March Two Thousand Fourteen  witnesseth as follows:–
1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Medical Staff Collective Agreement.
2. Employers Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind the  members of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon,  whose names
are contained in Schedule I hereto and hereinafter referred  to as the Employers or Employer, as the  case may be according to context, for
and in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in Clause 3 hereof.
3. Unions and Employees covered and Bound.–  This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter
referred to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by the members of the Federation referred to in Schedule I on
monthly contracts of employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule II hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements.– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these
categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the  event of there being any dispute with  regard to the
existence of any other term or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General of Labour
in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade union action on the basis of the
existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration.– Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shall be effective from 1st October,
2013 and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in  terms of the Industrial Disputes
Act subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 30th September, 2016.
6. General Terms and Conditions
(a) The terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this
Agreement.
(i) Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
(ii) The following rules of grading shall apply  to the specified grades:
(a) A pharmacist shall be a person who has successfully obtained an acceptable qualification.
(b) A midwife (Grade I) shall be a person with qualifications and training.
(b) All Registered Parctitioners (RMPs), Estate Medical Assistants (EMAs) and Assistant Medical Practitioners (AMPs) with
over 20 years experience shall be placed on the Medical Practitioners Grade.
(c) All Estate Medical Assistants (EMAs) and all Assistant Medical Practitioners (AMPs) with less than 20 years service shall
be placed in the Estate Medical Practitioners Grade.

<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
7. Probation..– On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the right
of the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatis factory
performance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confimation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary p eriod not
being extended after the period of 6 months, an employee shall be deemed to be confirmed notwithstanding there being no letter of
confirmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notic e or
assigning reasons therefore.
8. First Appointment:- No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he has successfully completed the
G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have experience in the
trade.
9. Attendance at Work:- Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work in
everyday other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for
work throughout the normal working hours.
10. Promotions.–
(i) Wherever vacancies exist all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given pereference. The Employer shall
advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and qualifications to
make them eligible.
(ii) Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a  period of 6 months and if he is confirmed in the senior capacity he will
not be required to serve a period of probation.
(iii) Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be communicated
to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting allowance of 50% of the difference between his salary and that which was last
paid to the holder of such senior position subject to a maximum  of Rupees One Thousend five Hundred (Rs. 1,500/-) per
mensum.
(iv) Where the acting period, other than in overlooking positions, continue for 6 months the employer shall prior to the expiry of
6 months inform the employee in writing whether he is confirmed in the post or reverted to his substantive post.
11. Salaries.–
(1) The salaries payble to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with effect from 1st October, 2013 shall be as
follows: –
(i) With effect from  1st October, 2013 the salaries of all employees in employment as at the date of signing of this
Agreement shall be increased by 25%. Provided however, in respect of the period  October 2013 to February 2014 it is
hereby agreed that the said increase will be regarded as notional arrears (without any consequential benefits such as EPF,
ETF, overtime etc.)
(ii) ( a) The notional arrears payment will be paid in two equal installments. The inital payment  will be made prior to the
Sinhala/Tamil New Year in April 2014 and
(b) The second installment will be paid in June 2014.
(iii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary scales applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule II of this
agreement.
(iv) After revison effected in terms of (i) and (ii) above the employees will  be placed on the salary range applicable to his/
her grade as set out in Schedule III hereof.
(v) In the case of Welfare Officers/Storekeepers who are presently entitled to an allowance on account of work as a Welfare
Officer/Storekeeper, as the case may be, such employee shall continue to receive his/her allowances at the rate of 10%
of the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if the additional duties are not performed or not
deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
33A
(2) ( a) With effect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staff quarters being provided
to them shall receive a 10% increment of the following allawances, depending on the grade to which they belong, and
the revised allowance will be as follows: –
Creche Attendant, Orderly and
Ward Attendant Rs. 1,020/-                x 10% =                 Rs. 1,122/-
Midwife (Grade II) Welfare
Officer, Apprentice Pharmacist,
Midwife (Grade I) – Rs. 1,080/- X10% = Rs. 1,188/-
Pharmacist/Junior Estate Medical Assistant – Rs. 1,260/- X10% = Rs. 1,386/-
Estate Medical Practitioner – Rs. 1,380/- X10% = Rs. 1,518/-
Medical Practitioner – Rs. 1,440/- X10% = Rs. 1,584/-
(b) In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the Employer, such person shall be liable to disciplinary
action.
12. Off Days.– A medical staff member shall be allowed one off day each week on which he will not be called upon to undertake
routine duties. He will, however, be required to deal with all urgent cases, which may arise.
13. Calls at Night or on Off Days.–
(i) With effect from the date hereof, an allowance of Rs. 150/- shall be paid to members of the medical staff for calls in the Lines
between 6.00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m. and Rs. 100/- in respect of calls to the hospital, dispensary and maternity ward between
6 p.m. and 6 a.m. In the case of a night call  between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. to the Hospital, Dispensary or Maternity Ward, dealing
with childbirth, the allowance payable shall be Rs. 300/-.
(ii) A call which has to be  attended to in the Lines on a prescribed off day shall be treated as a night call and paid for at
Rs. 150/- per call.
(iii) ''C alls'' shall mean physical visits.
(iv) An Estate Medical Practitioner or Estate Medical Assistant overlooking work on another estate shall be paid an allowance of
Rs. 500/- in respect of each visit he is required to make to such other estate.
(v) Midwives shall be paid a uniform allowance of Rs. 2,500/- per year.
14. Holidays.– Employees will be entitled  to paid holidays on
February 4th – Independence Day
April 13th or 14th – Sinhala /Tamil New Year
May 1st – May Day
15. Leave.–
(1) Employees shall be entitled  to a maximum of 14 days Annual Leave. In the first year the leave entitlement  shall be on a
proportionate basis. All employees with more than 20 years service and Heads of Dapatments shall be entitled to three
weeks paid annual leave as a special benefit: this right shall not extent to any employee recruited after 1st September, 1993.
(2) (i) Sick Leave – Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year . Sick leave will be granted
upto two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and over, a medical
certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to
the right of the Employer to call for a medical certificate as aforementioned, where he deem it appropriate.

<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which he
could use in the event of hospitalization or prolonged illness in a  succeeding year, subject to the condition however that
he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.
(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of sick leave he shall be permitted to
continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.
(3) Casual Leave – All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual leave with full pay, not
more than  three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year  will not be carried over to the next year.
(4) Five (5) days leave on full pay shall be allowed each year to each employee on account of religious festivals in accordance
with the religious persuasions of such employee. Such leave may not , however, be taken in continuation with Casual leave.
16. Gratuity.– Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
17. Age of Retirement.–
(i) Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher retrial age,  the age of retirement shall be 60 years and  will be applicable
to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
(ii) However, an employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory work performance, conduct
or state of health of the employee. For this purpose ''unsatisfactory work performance'' shall include any act of  misconduct
in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.
(iii)  An employer who decides to retire an employee at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii) above shall give such
employee one year's notice in writing or pay one year's salary in lieu of such notice. Where such notice is not given and the
employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period which misconduct would have otherwise
resulted in his retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be retired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the fact that notice
has not been given or payment made in lieu.
18. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment.–
(i) Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension shall
not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
(ii) Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry.
19. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries.–
(1) An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary  inquiry
when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against him. Such
suspension shall be in writing.
(2) Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shall be
on half pay.
(3) The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2)  above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending
inquiries by the Police, by other Public  Authorities or Audit Verifications.
20. Administrative Transfers.–
(1) Transfers not involving hardship in  relation to schooling of children or employment of a spouse, will, subject to the
exigencies of  the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one
month's notice in writing.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
35A
(2) Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship  on account of
children's   Schooling or the spouse's employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three months' notice in
writing.
(3) Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred in that
particular year.
(4) No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to his
retirement.
(5) The provisions of sub-clauses  (1), (2), (3) and (4) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the
Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
21. Annual Increments.–
(1) Annual Increments shall be granted automatically on completion of a year's  service. The increments will be awarded in
accordance with the practice  prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employees,
in the event of an employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, he
shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.
(2) An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred, by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after the Employee
has been notified in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas
stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
22. Disciplinary Inquiries.–
(1) An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal or
where, in the opinion of the Employer a breach of the peace, damage to property  or disturbance of business needs to be
avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notified in a general manner of the reasons for such
suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
(2) An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management
deems that such measure is necessary.
(3) An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ‘show cause’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct  alleged against him
and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days  in which to give the answer or explanation.
Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable amount of time
depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional circumstances.
(4) If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and
where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employer
shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working days
from the date on which the explanation to the show cause letter is received, unless circumstances prevent the employer.
(5) An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the inquiry. Such representative shall not be a
professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent of the
name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may object
to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee  may nominate another representative. The failure of an
employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
(6) The employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days
from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the findings be
delaye beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of a pending criminal
investigation. If no findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply, the accused employee
shall be exonerated of the charges.

<!-- page 36 -->

36A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
(7) Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee
summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification for
summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.
23. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment & Disputes.–
(1) Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any
of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
(2) Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as
personal, but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consumption
of electricity, where a limit is fixed for all employees.
(3) Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreemet shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General of
Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.
(4) It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members, shall not resort to any
form  of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
24. Duty Leave.–
(1) Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other office bearer of the Parent Union will
be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
(2) Where any dispute arises with regard to duty Leave of the President and the nominated office bearer of the Parent Union,
as specified in sub clause (1) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between parties.
(3) By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave in
any one year.
(4) By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave
which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed of jointly by these two
Office Bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
Part II
1. The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement morefully described in Schedule I to this Agreement
undertakes to  discuss with unions to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/sub-leasing of
estates / divisions.
2. Electricity
Free electricity would be granted to memebers of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the
past.
Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior Staff             –  140 units
Junior Staff (Inclusive of minor staff) – 100 units
Drivers             – 75 units
Elevation above  4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior Staff             –  170 units
Junior Staff (Inclusive of minor staff) – 130 units
Drivers             – 105 units

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
37A
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in six months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each estate.
Kerosene.–Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensum to those employees  resident on
estates/divisions without electricity.
3. Tea Allowance
The Employer shall provide free tea, on the following basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits in those
categories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
Senior Staff             –  2 kgs
Junior Staff (Inclusive of minor staff) – 1 1/2 kgs
Drivers             – 1 kg
The  staff members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or COP
whichever is lower.
Staff members who had been entitled to three or more  kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992 would be entitled to
purchase a maximum of 3 kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever is lower with effect from 1st June,
2003.
4. Death Grant
1. With effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the dependants will be paid a sum of Rs. 50,000 as funeral
expenses.
2. The dependants of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one month
upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependants hand over the staff quarters.
3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the dependants will be paid the sum equivalent to three months'
salary within one month of the death of the staff member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme. – A staff member who is a member of the staff medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to
his/her credit in the fund inclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/
her employment from the estate.
25. Interpretation.–
Word  Meaning
Union Means the union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.
Dispute  Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer  M eans a company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.
Week  M eans the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.
Year  Means a continuous period of 12 months.
Gender  A reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

<!-- page 38 -->

38A I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
38A


<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
39A39A


<!-- page 40 -->

40A I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
40A


<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
41A41A


<!-- page 42 -->

42A I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
42A


<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
43A43A
05 - 826


<!-- page 44 -->

44A I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
44A


<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'07'18
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
45A45A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
08 - 218