

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
¡ºø —ïÊË  EXTRAORDINARY
( Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
¡â¨ 2001/8 – 2017 ckjdß 11 Éæ¾ø Â¼å¼å – 2017 .01.11
No. 2001/8 – WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
My No. : CI/ 113.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A, Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02 of
the one part and Inter Company Employees Union, No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatte, Talangama of the other part on 21st day
of October, 2015 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Ena ctments
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
M. D. C. A
MARATUNGA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
30th December, 2016.
Collective Agreement No. 07 of 2016
This Collective Agreement, made this 21st day of  October Two Thousand and Fifteen pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act  between Ceylon
Cold Stores PLC, a Public Limited Liability Company duly registered in Sri Lanka, PQ4 and having its registered office at No. 1 17, Sir
Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02 (hereinafter referred to as " the Employer") of the One Part and the Inter Company
Employees Union, a Trade Union duly registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance in Sri Lanka having its registered office at No. 259/9,
Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatte, Talangama. (hereinafter sometimes referred to as "the Union") of the Other Part.
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – G24893 – 16 (2017/01)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
PART I
1. Parties to be Covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover and bind The Employer, The Union and members of the Union
employed on monthly contracts by the Employer in a Clerical, Supervisory or Allied category and for whom salary scales have been prescribed
in the 1st Schedule hereto. Provided however the provisions of this agreement will not apply to any new employee recruited to a new factory
set up by the Employer elsewhere in the future.
In addition, the provisions of the Memoranda of Understanding entered into between the Union and the Company on 17th May 2006
and 13th October 2009 relating to the Soft Drinks Factory, Ranala and the Memorandum of Understanding entered into on 25th May 2011
relating to the Ice Cream Production Department, Ice Cream Engineering Department, Old Cold Room adjacent to the Ice Cream Production
Department, Ice Cream Raw/ Packing Material Stores, Essence Factory and Quality Assuarance & Research and Development Department
will continue to be applicable to the Clerical, Supervisory or Allied category employees of the said departments including Medical Centre and
the Canteen who are covered and bound in the said MOU. In circumstances, the provisions of the said MOU will be regarded as part and parcel
of this agreement in respect of such employees in the Medical Centre and the Canteen.
2. Earlier Collective Agreement .– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace all terms, which have applied in
the past in terms of any Collective Agreement.
3. Date of Operation and Duration .–  This agreement which shall be effective as from the First day of August Two Thousand and
Fifteen and shall continue in force  unless determined otherwise by either party with three month's notice to the other subject to the following
provisions:
(a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the 1st May 2018 and such notice shall not expire
before the 31st July 2018.
(b) That in the event of a reduction in par value of the Sri Lanka rupee under any provision of law, a party  shall be at liberty to
abrogate this Agreement by giving one month's notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
(c) The Employer agrees to make a lump sum payment as national arrears in view of the delay in signing the Collective
Agreement.
4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment .– During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and
conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by
this Agreement and an Employee covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of service be written or
oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which shall come into being at any time after the date hereof during the
continuance in force of this Agreement.
5. Probation .– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (06) months,
provided, however, that if during the six (06) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such
Employee , the probationary period may be  extended for a further period of three (03) months and in that  event the Employer
shall indicate to the  Employee  in writing  the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of
probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without
notice. If the Employee's services are not terminated for unsatisfactory service during the period of probation or extended
probation and the Employee has not been confirmed by the Employer, the Employee shall be deemed to be confirmed in
the Employer's service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation or extended probation
ended, as the case may be.
6. Attendance  .–
(i) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the Employer, an Employee shall present himself for work on every day
(other than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the office, store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain
available for work throughout the normal working hours.
(ii) If work is temporarily not available for an Employee in his own occupation, he shall be deemed to be ready and
willing to perform work within his  capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the Employer
where work is available subject to existing practice.
(iii) Irregular attendence or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
7. Hours of Work .-The normal working hours shall be those hours, which are customarily worked at an Office,Store, Factory,
Mill or Job of the Employer bound by this agreement and shall include shift work arrangements as may be operated subject to work exigencies.
The work arrangements are also subject to the written understanding (referance CI/ 113/ 2004) reached between the Employer and the Union
on 19.02.2004 before the commissioner of labour (industrial Relations) and the memoranda of understanding reached between the Employer
and the Union on 17th May 2006, 13th October 2009 and 25th May 2011 at the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon. Accordingly, the working
hours of Foremen and Production Assisstants in the Soft Drinks Factory, Ice Cream Engineering Department, Old Cold Room adjacent to the
Ice Cream Production Department and Essence Factory on a two shift basis shall be from 6.00 a.m. to 2.00 p.m. and 2.00 p.m. to 10.00 p.m.
8. Deduction of Wages .- Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer an Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
9. Overtime .–
(i) Any work which is performed in excess of normal working hours shall be remunerated at one and one half (1.5) times the
normal hourly rate.
(ii) Where it appears that in any establishment of an Employer an Employee on being asked to work overtime, other than on
a weekly holiday, is likely to work overtime for a period of more than two (02) hours after the normal working hours, the
Employee shall be entitled to an interval of not less than thirty (30) minutes at the end of such normal working hours before
commencing overtime work.
10. Weekly Holidays .– Subject to Clause 13 of Part I hereof the following provisions shall govern weekly holidays.
(i) The weekly holidays prescribed by the Act shall be the weekly half holiday and the weekly full holiday as defined in Part III hereof.
(ii) Work performed on not more than two such weekly holidays in anyone calendar month may, at the instance of the Employer and
with the consent of the Employee, be paid for in the manner setout here under and the Employee on being paid and in the manner
set out hereunder, shall not be entitled to a half holiday or a full holiday as the case may be in lieu:
(a) For any work performed after the normal closing time up to 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, the Employee
shall be paid overtime remuneration at double the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any
fraction of an hour.
(b) For any work performed after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half-holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remu-
neration treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour.
(c) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (a) above or paragraphs (a)  and (b) above, the Employee
shall be paid the equivalent of the Employee’s salary for one half day.
(d) For any work performed under and up to four (04) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the overtime
remuneration payable to the Employee shall be one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee’s monthly salary.
(e) For any work performed in excess of four (04) hours and up to eight (08) hours befor 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the overtime remuneration payable to the Employee shall be one thirtieth (1/30th) of the employee’s
monthly salary in respect of the excess hours.
(f) For any work performed in excess of eight (08) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration for any fraction of an hour of such excess.
(g) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (d), or paragraphs (d) and (e) or pragraphs (d), (e) and (f)
above, the Employee shall be paid the equivalent of the Employee’s salary for one day.
(iii) Where an Employee has performed work on not more than two weekly holidays in any on calendar month and has been
paid for such work in the manner set out in the preceding sub-clause, then in respect of work performed on any further
weekly holidays in the same calendar month, the Employee shall be remunerated in the manner set out  hereunder and
shall be entitled to and allowed a half holiday and / or a full holiday in lieu of the weekly half holiday and / or the weekly
full holiday as the case may be:

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
(a) For any work performed after the normal closing time up to 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, the Employee
shall be paid overtime remuneration at double the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any
fraction of an hour.
(b) For any work performed after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half-holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble
the normal hourly rate for each hour of proportionately for any fraction of an hour.
(c) For any work performed under and up to four (04) hours after 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the Employee shall be
paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee’s salary.
(d) For any work performed in excess of four (04) hours and up to eight (08) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30
th) of the Employee’s monthly salary in
respect of the excess hours.
(e) For any work performed in excess of eight (08) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal houly rate for each hour or proportionately for any
fraction of an hour of such excess.
11.   Annual Holidays.– Annual Holidays shall be as prescribed by the Act and an Employee may opt to set off absence due to ill-
health in excess of the entitlement provided under Clause 15 of Part I hereof against his annual leave entitlement.
12. Statutory and Customary Holidays .–
The following provisions shall govern statutory and customary holidays:
(i) Public holidays declared under the shop & office employees’ (Regulation of Employment & Remuneration) Act shall be
regarded as Statutory Holidays,. The following holidays shall be allowed each year as paid holidays accordingly.
Thai Pongal Festival Day
Independence Day
Sinhala & Tamil New Year (Two Days)
May Day
The day following Wesak
Prophet Mohamed’s Birthday
Christmas Day
(ii) The following customary holidays shall be allowed each year as paid holidays:
New Year’s Day (1st January)
Good Friday
Christmas Eve (1/2 day)
Boxing day
(iii) ( a) If any of the above days is a statutory holiday and if it falls on a weekly half holiday, an additional halfday shall be
granted on the working day immediately preceding it ; and if it falls on a weekly full holiday,  a substitute holiday
shall be granted on a working day either in six (06) days preceding or in the six (06) days succeeding such weekly
full holiday. No substitute holiday shall be allowable for any day specified above, which is not a statutory holiday,
if such day falls on a weekly half holiday or a weekly full holiday.
(b) If any of the above days is a statutory holiday and some other day not specified above is declared a statutory holiday
in substitution for such day, then such day shall be treated as a normal working day.
(iv) ( a) Where the Employer requires an Employee to work during the half holiday set out in sub clause (ii) hereof (i.e.
after the normal working hours for that day), the Employer shall pay the Employee either -
(1) On the basis set out in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Clause 10 (ii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall
not be entitled to a half holiday in lieu.
OR
(2) On the basis set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Clause 10 (iii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall be
entitled to and allowed a half holiday in lieu.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
(b) Where the Employer requires an Employee to work on any of the holidays set out in sub - clause (I) hereof
and provided that if such holiday is a statutory holiday the Commissioner General of Labour has given his
permission for the Employee to work on such holiday, the Employer shall pay the Employee either -
(i) On th basis set out in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) and (g) of clause 10 (ii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall
not be entitled to a holiday in lieu
OR
(ii) On the basis set out in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Clause 10 (iii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall
be entitled to and allowed a holiday in lieu.
13. Supervisory Staff .– The Provisions of Clauses 10 and 12 of Part I hereof regarding weekly holidays and statuory ans customary
holidays shall not apply to Storekeepers, Assistant Storekeepers, Overseer, Foremen and other like or similar categories whose work involves
the supervision of staff employed in manual work (hereinafter referred to as “ Supervisory Staff”) but in respect of such supervisory staff the
following provisions shall apply :-
(i) Weekly half - holiday:
For any work performed in excess of the normal working hours on the weekly half holiday, the Employee shall be remunerated
at one and one half (1- 1/2) times the normal hourly rate and such Employee shall not be entitled to any holiday in lieu for any
overtime work so performed on a weekly half holiday.
(ii) Weekly full - holiday:
For any work performed on the weekly full holiday the Employee shall be remunerated as follows:
(a) (i) For any work performed under and up to four (04) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee’s monthly salary.
(ii) For any work performed in excess of four (04) hours and up to eight (08) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the weekly
full holiday the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee’s
monthly salary in respect of the excess hours.
(iii) In respect of any work performed in excess of eight (08) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or
proportionately for any fraction of an hours such excess.
(iv) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (i) above or paragraphs (i)  and (ii) or para-
graphs (i), (ii)  and (iii) above, the Employee shall be paid the equivalent of the Employee’s salary for
one (01) day.
Where any work is performed on the weekly full holiday and the employee is remunerated in the manner set out above, the
employee shall not be entitled to any holiday in lieu.
(b) (i) For any work performed under and up to four (04) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee’s monthly salary in
respect of the excess hours.
(ii) For any work performed in excess of four (04) hours and up to eight (08) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the weekly
full holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee’s
monthly salary in respect of th excess hours.
(iii) In respect of any work performed in excess of eight (08) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the
weekly full  holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate
for each hour or  proportionately for any fraction of an hour in respect of such excess.
Where any work is performed on the weekly full holiday and the Employee is remunerated in the manner set out
above, the Employee shall in addition be entitled to and allowed a holiday in lieu.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
(iii). Statutory and Customary Holidays:
Supervisory staff shall be entitled to such Statutory and Customary Holidays as they have hitherto enjoyed prior to the coming
in to force of this Agreement notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement and for any work performed
on such Staturory or Customary Holiday the Supervisory Staff shall continue to be remunerated in the manner in which they
were remunerated prior to the coming into force of this Agreement notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
Agreement. Provided, however, that the Supervisory Staff shall have the same holidays as may from time to time be enjoyed
by the staff employed in manual work supervised by such supervisory  staff and that the total of such holidays shall not
be less than the total of the Statutory and Customary Holidays enjoyed by the Supervisory Staff as at the date hereof.
(iv). Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed in any way as bringing the Supervisory staff within the provisions of the Act.
14. Casual Leave.–
(i). In respect of each year of employment during which any employee has been continuously in employment that Employee shall
be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill health if that Employee’s entitlement to
sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as “Casual leave”) with remuneration for the period or an
aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such casual leave and shall be liable to pay such
remuneration provided however, that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken at any time save and except upon
the ground of ill health. Provided further,  that any Employee shall not be entitled to take casual leave immediately preceding or
immediately following any period of annual holidays. Provided further that in respect of any Employees first year of employ-
ment including any period of probation he shall be entitled to casual leave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each
complete period of two (02) months service.
(ii). Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the employee being required to state the reason for the application.
Where the Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave his difficulty shall be notified to the employee as
soon as possible after the application is made and in such case, the Employee may be required to state the reasons for the
application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him/her casual
leave.
15. Sick Leave.– In any year, an Employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days. Provided that –
(a) His illness is supported by a certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by the employer), where such
period of absence exceeds two (02) days, and
(b) The Employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 5 hereof. Provided however, that an Employee who has
been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be entitled
to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months probation and sick leave not exceeding five
(5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months probation.
16. Promotions.–
(i) The following shall be the principles which will guide Employers on the question of promotion:
(a) Mere length of service shall not be the sole criterion for promotion and the Employer shall be entitled to take into account
other factors such as efficiency , education qaulifications and character. Where suitability if comparable, seniority shall
be given preference.
(b) An employee  in Grade I in the Clerical Supervisory Staff will normally be promoted to Grade II after completing an
year’s service in Stage 7 unless his inefficiency has been established after due inquiry as provided in clause 27  of part
I hereof.
(c) Promotion of Clerical and Supervisory Staff from Grade II to the Higher Grade will depend on vacancies and employees
who have shown the necessary capacity will be eligible for promotion to the Higher Grade.
(d) Promotion of Clerical and Supervisory Staff to the special Grade will be from the Higher Grade and will depend
on merit.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
(ii) The number of Employees in the Higher or Special Grade of the Clerical and Supervisory staff of any establish-
ment will be determined having regard, inter alia, to:
(a)   the strength of the work force:
(b) the work involved in a post , and
(c) the merit of the Employees available for promotion.
(iii) Where an Employee is promoted at the normal incremental date from one grade to another , such Employee shall be
placed at a salary stage in the Higher Grade which will give such Employee a salary not less than that which he would
have received had he remained in the grade from which he is promoted and had been advanced one state in that grade,
but where an Employee is promoted on a date other than the normal incremental date, such Employee shall be placed at
a salary stage in the Higher Grade which will give him a salary not less than that which he would have received if he had
remained in the grade from which he is promoted.Provided, however, that if an Employee is standing at the end
of a grade when he is promoted to the next grade, such Employee may be placed at any stage in the Higher Grade to
which he is promoted which will give him a higher salary than the maximum salary in the grade from which he is
promoted.
17. Transfers–
(i) Where it is a term of employment either express or implied that an Employee is liable to be transferred from one locality of
an establishment to another, such Employee will not be entitled to any additional remuneration if, in consequence of a
transfer from one locality to another, there is an increse in the number of hours of work.
(ii) Where it is not a term of employment either express or implied that an Employee is liable to be transferred from one locality
of an establishment to another, such Employee will be entitled to receive and the Employer shall be liable to pay additional
remuneration in order to compensate for any increase in the number of hours of work arising from a transfer from one
locality of an establishment to another. The amount of such additional remuneration, which will depend on the extent to
which the hours of work have been increased, shall be mutually agreed upon between the Employer and the Employee or
the Union on his behalf. Provided, however, that if the Employee is re-transferred to the locality in which he was previously
employed and/or the hours of work previously worked by him are  restored to such employee, the additional remuneration
granted to him shall be withdrawn with effect from the date of such re-transfer or restoration.
(iii) Where it is not a term of employment either express or implied that an Employee is liable to be transferred from one locality
of an establishment to another and the transfer of such an Employee will cause him substantial domestic disorganization
such as may arise in consequence of a transfer from one station to another such transfer shall be effected by mutual consent
between the Employer and such Employee even if.
(a) Such transfer will not involve a change in the number of hours of work, or
(b) He is offered additional remuneration in terms of sub-clause (ii) above.
(iv) Nothing in the preceding sub-clause of this clause shall prejudice the right of an Employee to make representations to the
Employer against any order of transfer. If an Employer requires an Employee to comply with an order to transfer
notwithstanding such representations, the Employee shall comply with the order of transfer but without prejudice to the
right of the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute such transfer with the Employer thereafter
as provided in this Agreement.
(v) If the Executive Committee of the Union considers that any order of transfer of an Employee by an Employer is calculated
to threaten or undermine the existence of the legitimate activities of the Union or its members or is grossly unfair or
seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union, the Union shall notify the Employer thereof in writing any may, if in the
opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union the circumstances so warrant, instruct the Employee to refrain
from complying with the order to transfer pending settlement of the dispute as provided in this Agreement. If the
Union instructs the Employee to refrain from complying with the order of transfer as aforesaid, the Union shall
notify the Employer thereof in writing and in that event the Employer shall be entitled to suspend the Employee
immediately without pay. Provided, however, that if the Employer subsequently agrees or if an Arbitrator holds
that the order of transfer was not justified the Employee shall be entitled to his salary for the period of suspension.
If on the other hand, an Arbitrator holds that the order of transfer was justified, the Employee shall comply with the
order of transfer and he shall not be entitled to his salary for the period of suspension. The refusal of an Employee
to comply with an order of transfer on instructions from the Union after the Union notifying the Employee as
aforesaid shall not be deemed to be an act of insubordination by the Employee and the Employee shall not be liable
to disciplinary action by the Employer for such refusal.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
18. Carrying out Employer’s Instructions as to Duties.–
(i) If an Employee considers that any duty which he is required to perform by an Employer does not fall within the scope of
his employment under the Employer, the Employee shall be entitled to bring such matter to the notice of the Employer. If,
notwithstanding such notification the Employer requires the Employee to carry out such instructions, then the Employee
shall be entitled to request the Employer to give him such instructions in writing.
(ii) If the Employer gives the Employee such instructions in writing, the Employee shall carry out the same but without
prejudice to the right of the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute such matter with the
Employer thereafter as provided in this Agreement.
(iii) If the Employer refuses to give such instructions in writing, the Employee shall be entitled to refuse to carry out such
instructions and in that event the Employer shall have no right to action against the Employee.
(iv) If the Employer gives such instructions in writing but the Employee fails to carry out the same, the Employer shall be
entitled to suspend the Employee immediately without pay and to take disciplinary action against him without prejudice to
the right of the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute such suspension or such disciplinary
action as may be taken against the Employee as provided in this Agreement.
19. Conversion to the salary scale set out in Schedule I.–
(i) With effect from 21st Day of October, Two Thousand Fifteen, Employees covered and bound by this Agreement shall be
paid salaries in accordance with the salary scales set out in Schedule 1 hereof and accordingly the annual increments
payable to Employees shall be in terms of these scales. The Salaries have been consolidated taking into account all statutory
and other allowances due as at date hereof. This will only apply in the first year.
(ii) To ascertain the stage on which an Employee will be placed in the first year i.e. with effect from 21st day of October, 2015,
on the salary scale set out at Schedule 1 hereof, the following method of conversion shall apply.
(a) A sum equal to 5.5% of the salary payable to an employee as at 30th September, 2015 shall be added to the
salaries of all Employees who are covered and bound by this Agreement and the adjusted salary will take
effect from 21st October, 2015.
(b) Arising from the aforesaid adjustment the employees shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point in the grade
applicable to him in the salary scales set out in Schedule I hereof or in the event of there being no corresponding point
on the next higher point in monetary terms in the said grade and the scale.
(c) With effect from 1st April, 2016 the Employer will increase the monthly salaries of all employees covered by
this Agreement by a sum equal to 5.5% of the monthly salary payable to each employee as at 31st March,
2016 and thereafter place each employee on the corresponding point, or if there is no such corresponding
point on the next higher point on the salary scales given in Schedule I hereof or the grade applicable to such
employee.
(d) With effect from 1st April, 2017 the Employer will increase the monthly salaries of all employees covered by
this Agreement by a sum equal to 5% of the monthly salary payable to each employee as at 31st March, 2017
and thereafter place each employee on the corresponding point, or if there is no such corresponding point on
the next higher point on the salary scales given in Schedule I hereof or the grade applicable to such employee.
(iii) Upon completion of each 5 year period of employment up to the 25th year an Employee shall be entitled to receive a salary
increase  by way of a fixed number of increments on the scale applicable to him totalling to a sum of Rs. 100/-. In the event
of fixed number of increments not totalling to Rs.100/- the amount shall be the figure immediately higher to Rs.100/- on a
fixed number of increments. For example, if the salary scale provides for increments of Rs. 30/- such Employee shall
receive an increase of Rs.30/- X 4 = Rs.120/-, if the salary scale provides for increments of Rs. 25/- such Employee shall
receive an increase of Rs. 25/- x 4 = Rs. 100/-. The Employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point in the
salary scale and grade applicable to him.
(iv) Upon the completion of  30 years in employment an Employee shall be entitled to receive a salary increase by way of a fixed
number of increments totalling to the value of Rs. 250/-. In the event of a fixed number of increments not totalling to Rs. 250/
- the amount shall be the figure immediately higher to Rs. 250/- on a fixed number of incre ments.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
20. The Employer agrees to make the following payments in lieu of consolidating wages based on cost of living and Non -
recurring cost of living gratutity (NRCLG) in addition to the revision to the revision of salaries as set out above.
(i) To add a sum of One Thousand (Rs. 1000/-) into salaries of employees covered and bound by this agreement and who are
in employment as at the date of signing of this agreement, prior to the revision of salaries as set out in clauses 19.ii (a) to
19.ii(d) above. Accordingly the payment will be made as follows;
(a) April 2016 - Rs.1000/-
(b) April 2016 - Rs.1000/-
(c) April 2016 - Rs.1000/-
(ii) To make a Lump sum payment of Rupees Twenty Five Thousand (Rs.25,000/-) to Employees who are covered and bound
by this Agreement as at the date of  signing this agreement based on the following.
(a) May 2016 - Rs.25,000/-
(b) May 2017 - Rs.25,000/-
(c) May 2018 - Rs.25,000/-
These payments shall not attract consequential benefits such as Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Grartutity, Overtime or any
other similar payments.
21. Bonus. –
(i) Subject to what is stated at sub clauses (ii) and (iii) hereunder the Employer will during the continuance in force of this
Agreement pay, subject to prevailing practice, Employees covered and bound by this Agreement who have completed
twelve (12) months continuous service in the Company on the date of such Bonus payment and are in employment on such
date a bonus calculated in terms of the under- noted formula:
 Formula:
A sum equivalent to 3 months (three months) of the annual salary paid to an Employee during the relevant financial
 year, i.e.,  1st April to 31st March, for which such bonus is declared.
(i) The full amount due on this formula to each Employee will be paid in two equal installments in the months of December
and April. For example, in respect of the financial year 1st April, 2015, to 31st March, 2016, the payment of bonus will
be made in the months of December 2015 and April 2016.
(ii) This payment will be extended on a pro- rate basis to any Employee who has retired on reaching the age of retirement
or dies during the period for which the bonus is declared.In the case of the latter the payment will be made to the legal
heris.
(iii) In the case of an Employee confirmed in employment after the successful completion of a period of probation the
Employer will extend to him a pro rated bonus payment notwithstanding such Employee having served less than 12
months.
(iv) In respect of the financial years 01 April, 2015 to 31 March, 2016, 01 April, 2016 to 31 March, 2017 and 01 April,
2017 to 31 March, 2018, the Employer will , taking into  account the performance of the Company in such financial
years, consider the grant of an ex-gratia payment equal to half months salary per employee, after the end of such
financial years. In the event the company decides to make such a payment, it is agreed that it would be paid on 30
 th
May.
22. Profit Share Scheme (PSS). –
(i) It is agreed that the Employer shall implement the following Profit Share Scheme (PSS) with effect from the date of
signing this agreement for the financial years 2015/16, 2016/17 and 2017/18 subject to the conditions stipulated below.
Payments under this scheme shall not attract consequential benefits such as Provident Fund, Trust Fund , Grauity,
Overtime or any other similar payments.
(ii) The profit share due to employees covered and bound shall be ascertained based on the Profit After Tax (PAT) as per
Audited Accounts of the year preceding the payment after adjusting for the following items in the respective years it
may arise.

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
(a) Sale of Land and buildings
(b) Sale of investments
(c) Impact due to revaluations
(d) VRS payments
(e) Compensation received from suppliers of machinery and equipment for late delivery and or for non
perfor mance or delay.
(f) One off  impairment of equipment, including bottles due to discontinuation.
(g) Any other payment received by the company outside its normal trading activities.
(iii) The foll owing table shall be applied to determine the quantum due to an employee.
PAT Adjusted as set  out in 22.2 above Profit Share
From Rs.301 Million to Rs.400 Million Rs.5,000/-
From Rs.401 Million to Rs.500 Million Rs.15,000/-
From Rs.501 Million to Rs.700 Million Rs.25,000/-
From Rs.701 Million to Rs.900 Million Rs.30,000/-
From Rs.901 Million to Rs.1,000 Million Rs.35,000/-
From Rs.1,001 Million to Rs.1,200 Million Rs.40,000/-
From Rs.1,201 Million to Rs.1,400 Million Rs.45,000/-
From Rs.1,401 Million to Rs.1,600 Million Rs.50,000/-
From Rs.1,601 Million to Rs.1,800 Million Rs.55,000/-
From Rs.1,801 Million to Rs.2,000 Million Rs.60,000/-
Over Rs.2,000 Million Rs.65,000/-
(iv) Employees will not be eligible for PSS on a pro - rated basis.
For e.g. If the Company were to achieve an adjusted PAT of Rs.320 million, an employee will be paid Rs.5,000/-
(v) It is the intention of parties continue the Profit Share Scheme and requisite revisions to the PSS shall be made with the
concurrence of the Union.
(vi) Payment under the PSS, if eligible to pay, and the sum set out in 20.(ii) will be made on or before 31st May every year.
23. Wages for Periods Less than one month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any Employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a) for one hour - the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) for one day - the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) for one half day - a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (02)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week - a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (07)
24. Provident Fund.– The Employer shall contribute to the Provident Fund 12% (twelve percent) of the Employee’s monthly salary
and the Employee shall contribute a like sum to the Fund. The rates of contribution are liable to change subject to the requirements of the
Employee’s Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.
25. Annual Increments.– The annual increments provided in each of the scales of consolidated wages in the Schedule hereto
shall be automatic unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irrigular attendance or  punctuality or disciplin-
ary action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped, deferred, in which case where an increment is -

<!-- page 11 -->

11 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
(i) Deferred, the loss of increment shall only be continuous through the year;
(ii) Stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(iii) Suspended, the increment  is suspended pending a desicion to defer or stop an increment, such decision being
dependent upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension where on such decision an increment is
neither stopped nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of
suspension thereof shall accure to the Employee concerned. Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall
only be effected in cases where the Employee has been notified in writing of complaint against such Employee and has
been found guilty after due Inquiry of inefficiency, fraud of misconduct , which in the circumstances does not merit
termination of Employment.
26. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be  conveyed to the Employee by a
letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses and the fact that such written warning was refused to be taken  by the
Employees hall be recorded.
27. Suspension.–
(i) An Employee may, subject as hereinafter provided, be suspended without pay by an Employer -
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct where such charge or    charges
relates to:
(i) Fraud, theft, misappropriation or a like offence by the Employee in the course of his employment;
(ii) Abuse, threat or gross insubordination by the Employee of or to a member of the executive or managerial staff
of the Employer;
(iii) A breach of peace, or damage to property, or disturbance of the business of the Employer.
Provided however that an Employer shall suspend an Employee under paragraph (iii) above only for so long as the
Employee’s continuance in employment will or is likely to be undersirable or to be prejudicial to the proper investiga-
tion of the charges or the Employer carrying on his business;
(a) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (07) working days, after due inquiry.
(b) If an Employee refrains from complying with any order of transfer in terms of clause (17) of Part I hereof or
fails to carry out the Employer’s written instructions in terms of clause 18 of Part I hereof.
(ii) At the time of suspension under sub clause (i) (a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide
the Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter hold and
inquiry into the charge or charges in terms of Clause 28 hereof.
28. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an employee then:
(i) Irrespective of whether an employee has been suspended under clause 27 hereof or not, the employee  shall be furnished
with a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such
employee and such show cause notice shall give the employee not less than Five (5) clear working days in which to give
the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
(ii)  Within five (5) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the employee shall furnish in writing to the
employer the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred against such employee. Provided however, that if in
the circumstances it is reasonable the employee may ask the employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the
written answer or explanation to show cause notice and where such request is made by an employee to the employer, the
employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(iii)  If the employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee, the employee shall if he is under
suspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all emoluments and entitlements due for the period of such
suspension.
(iv) If the employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee to the show cause notice and
such answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within fourteen (14)

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
working days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
(v) After holding such inquiry, the employer shall notify the employee of the findings of each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days
from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and inference adverse to the employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(vi) If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that :
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of Sub - clause 27 hereof be paid all emoluments and entitlements due for the period of suspension
irrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to
the charges in the show cause notice ;
(b) The employee shall be dismissed, then the employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the employee’s
suspension and accordingly the employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges, in the show cause notice against the employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other
authorities for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore, referred to the Police or other
authorities or if in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the employee, the matter has
been previously referred to the Police or any other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such
investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances, the employee may remain suspended
without pay.
(vii) If in any case where an employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c), of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the employee’s own seeking within thirty (30) days
from the date of the employee’s suspension, the employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for the period
of thirty (30) working days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in
excess of thirty (30) working days up to the date on which the employer makes and order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the
preceding Sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(viii) In any case where an employee is suspended as provided herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a) to
(c) of sub-clause (vi) within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the employee unless he is prevented from
so doing by reason of the employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed
between the Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case, the period of ninety (90) days be
extended for such further time as may be agreed.
(ix) An employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in Sub-clause (4) and (5) hereof where the
employer proposes to warn the employee of where the employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided how-
ever, that if the Union disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the employee by the employer and requests
the holding of an inquiry the employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of
an inquiry shall then apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within
fourteen (14) working days after receipt of the employees explanation shall not be material or relevant.
29. Retirement.– An Employee has the option of retiring at the age of fifty five (55) years or at any time thereafter and shall
retire on attaining the age of sixty (60) years. Provided however, that if the Employer requires to retain the services of an E mployee
who has attained the age of sixty (60) years, the Employee shall be offered fresh employment on a temporary basis so long as th e
Employer requires the services of such Employee.
30. Trade Union Action.– The Union hereby undertakes in respect of all the terms and conditions of employment covered by
this Agreement not to seek to vary or alter any such terms or conditions other than by negotiation during the currency of this
Agreement and hereby expressly undertakes, subject to Clause 31 (iv) (d) of Part I hereof, not to engage in a strike or other f orm of
trade union action in respect of a dispute but will have such dispute settled in accordance with the procedure set out in Claus e 31 of
Part 1 hereof.
31. Dispute Procedure.– It is hereby agreed that the procedure to be followed for the settlement of a dispute shall be as set out
in sub clause (i) or (ii) hereof
(i) ( a) where a dispute is between an Employee and an Employer, the Employee shall, in the first instance, raise the matter
through such Employee’s Branch Union with the Employer and both parties shall endeavour to effect and amiable
settlement. Provided however, that if the exigencies of the circumstances warrant, the Union acting immediately in
accordance with the succeeding pragraph (b) it shall not be necessary for the Employee’s Branch union to raise the
matter as herein provided before the Union acts under the succeeding paragraph (b).

<!-- page 13 -->

13 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
(b) In the event of a dispute not being settled under paragraph (a) above, or in the case of a dispute between a Branch
union and an employer, the Union may, if  it so desires, raise the matter with the Federation and thereupon all steps
shall be taken that may be reasonable by the Union and the Federation for an amicable settlement of the matter in
dispute utilizing if desired, the good offices of the Conciliation Division of the Department of Labour.
(c) In the event of a dispute not being resolved or settled under the preceding paragraphs (a) or (b) or in the case of a dispute
between the Union and the Federation, the parties shalll agree to a statement of the matters in dispute and such matters shall
be referred to an arbitrator of arbitrators under section 3 (i) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act for settlement by arbiration.
Provided however, that should the parties fail to agreement to a settlement of the issue in dispute, each party shall furnish
the Commissioner of Labour with a statement setting out the issues in dispute and thereafter the Commissioner of
Labour shall set out the issues in dispute to be referred to the arbitrator or arbitrators.
(ii) (a)  the Union may notify the Federation in writing a statement of the mater in dispute that such dispute should be dealt with
under the sub clause. As soon as possible after such notification by the Union to the Federation, a special Disputes
committee ot the federation shall  endeavour to settle the dispute. If no settlement is effected within seven (07) days from
the date of the Union notifying the Federation, the dispute shall, as soon as possible, be referred to the Commissioner
General of Labour for settlement by arbitration as provided in sub clause (i) (c) above, or if the Union or the Employer so
requests, the dispute shall be referred immediately to a Special Arbitrator for settlement by arbitration.
(b) If a dispute arising from the dismissal or discharge of an Employee by an Employer is referred to a Special arbitrator as
aforesaid and he is unable to make an Award within twenty one (21) days of the date of receipt of reference, the Special
Arbitrator shall be competent but not bound, either of his own motion or at the instance of the Union , to make an interim
Award after duly considering all the relevant facts and circumstances for his failure to make an Award within twenty one
(21) days of the date of reference, directing the employer to pay the Employee a sum not exceeding the equivalent of one
half of the Employee’s normal remuneration for the first thirty (30) days from the date of cessation of employment and for
such period thereafter but, not later than the date of the Award on the reference a sum not exceeding the equivalant of the
Employee’s full remuneration. The parties shall be bound by and comply with the terms of any such interim Award.
(iii) Subject to sub clause (iv) hereof, the procedure for the settlement of a dispute shall be as set out in sub clause (i) hereof.
(iv) The procedure for a settlement of a dispute in respect of the matters enumerated in the suceeding paragraphs (a), (b) or (c )
shall subject to the succeeding paragraph (d) be as set out in sub clause (ii) hereof.
(a) A dispute in connection with the interpretation or implementation of this Agreement arising from an act of the Employer,
which in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union is calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the
legitimate activities of the Union.
(b) A dispute not connected with the interpretation or implementation of this Agreement, arising from an act  of an Employer
which in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union is calculated to threaten or undermine the existence of the
legitimate activities of the Union or its members or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union
or its members. Provided however, that the disputes shall be referred to an arbitrator or arbitrators under the Industrial
Disputes Act or to a Special Arbitrator as the case may be, if no settlement is effected within seven (07) days from the date
of the Union notifying the Federation in terms of sub- clause (ii) (a) hereof, only if the Union so desires.
(c) A dispute arising from the dismissal or discharge of an Employee by an Employer on disciplinary grounds, which
dismissal or discharge is in the opinion of  the Executive Committee of the Union vindictive or in bad faith and is calculated
to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the union. Provided however, that the dispute shall be
referred to an arbitrator or arbitrators under the Industrial Disputes Act or to a special Arbitrator as the case may be, if no
settlement is effected within seven (07) days from the date of the Union notifying the Federation in terms  of sub clause
(ii)(a) hereof, only if the Union so desires.
(d) If the Union does not, however, desire to refer a dispute for settlement by arbitration under the provisions of the  preceding
paragraphs (b) or  (c), the Union reserves to itself the right to engage in or authorize a strike or other form of trade
union action and the Federation and the Employer reserves to itself and himself the right to take such steps as it or
he may deem fit in the circumstances.
(v) (a) In respect of a dispute arising between the parties hereto where arbitration is provided for under this Agreement, it is
agreed that the parties to the dispute shall determine at the date thereof whether the dispute shall be settled by
arbitration by one arbitrator or three arbitrators. Provided however that disputes arising, over dismissals shall

<!-- page 14 -->

14 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
normally be referred to one arbitrator and disputes arising over the proper interpretation or implementation or this
Agreement if involving matters or principle or matters of general importance shall normally, if possible, be re-
ferred to a panel of not less that three arbitrators.
(b) For the purposes of this Agreement an arbitrator or Special Arbitrator shall be jointly selected by the parties. If the parties
fail to agree on an arbitrator or special Arbitrator he shall be selected by the Commissioner General of Labour.
(c) Where a dispute over a dismissal has been referred for settlement by arbitration under the provisions of this Agreement
and the Award contains a finding that the dismissal of the Employee by the Employer was not justified, then it is hereby
agreed between the parties that normally in such a case the arbitrator or the Special Arbitrator  shall order that the
Employee shall be reinstated in his employment with  the Employer and it is hereby further agreed that in any such
arbitrator  or the Special Arbitrator shall take note of this paragraph in making any such Award.
(d) A special Arbitrator shall be competent but not bound to make order in his award as to the manner in which the costs of
the arbitration excluding the legal expenses or either party shall be borne by the parties.
(e) An award of an arbitrator or Special Arbitrator made herein provided shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
(f) (i) Where the Union seeks to settle a dispute by Arbitration as provided for in this clause, such request for arbitration
shall be communicated to the Ferderation within six (06) months calculated from the date on which negotiations fail.
(ii)  Either party  shall be entitled at any stage to inform the other that negotiations have failed.
(iii) An Employer and the Federation shall not be under any obligation to refer to arbitration any dispute where the request
for arbitration is not made within  the period of six (06) months specified in his sub clause.
(g) (i) Where the Union seeks to settle a dispute relating to the termination of the services of an Employee by arbitration as
provided for in this clause, such termination should have been disputed by the Employee with the Employer or by the
Branch Union  with the Employer or by the Union with the Employer or the Federation within three (03) months of
the date of termination.
(ii) An Employer and the Federation shall not be under any obligation to refer to arbitration a dispute  relating to the
termination of the services of an Employee where it has not been disputed as aforementioned within the period of
three (03) from the date of termination of services.
(iii) The date of termination for the purposes of this sub clause shall be the date on which the written communication is
sent to the Employee  terminating his services and not the date on which the termination of services takes effect under
Clause 28(6)(b) hereof.
32. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment, Benefits. -
(i) The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree
with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this agreement they will not seek to vary, alter or add to
all or any of the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and
bound by this Agreement as amended or altered in terms of this Agreement, or all or any of the benifits presently
enjoyed by any of the employees covered and bound by this agreement other than by mutual Agreement.
(ii) The employer agrees with the Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement
that he shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any of the benifits presently enjoyed by the employees
covered and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
(iii) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiation under the provisions of Sub - clause (i) or (ii) may be resolved
by voluntary arbitration but only if all the parties concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settle-
ment by voluntary arbitration.

<!-- page 15 -->

15 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
PART II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONSESSIONS GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
1. Domestic Inquiries.- If an Employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 27 is a member of the Union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice.
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow a member of the Union in the employment of the employer
(hereinafter referred to as “observer”) to be present as an Observer without loss of wages for absence from work.
(b) If the Employee who is served with a show cause notice desires an Observer to be present at the Inquiry to be held
pursuant to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the com-
mencement of the inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any question which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall
not be  entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw there from and an Observe shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such
inquiry, nor the proceedings threat, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
2. Union Meetings.- The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union-
(a) In respect of each meeting the Union desires to hold at the Employer’s permises, an application for permission shall be
previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more of the
under noted conditions :-
(i) That no person other than an employee who is a member of the Union in the service of the employer shall be
present at the meeting of the such Branch Union;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual  General Meeting of the Union, authorised officials of such Union may with the
prior approval of the Employer, attend:
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Branch Union shall be conducted or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its Officials to ensure that the terms  on which permissions to hold a
meeting of the Branch Union is granted are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its officials to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of or in
connection with the meeting of the Branch Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons at the Employer’s
permises  and the Union shall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
(e) The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the General Council of the Union :-
(i) Without prejudice to the right of an Employer to refuse to grant permission if in his discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, an Employer will generally grant permission to a member of the General Council of the
Union in order to attend a meeting of the General council, to leave office not earlier than two (02) o’clock in the afternoon
on not more than one occasion in a month without loss of salary for such absence if an application for permission to attend
is made at least forty eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting of the General Council;
(ii) For the purpose of paragraph (a) above the Union shall forthwith furnish each, Employer in whose service there are
members and keep such Employer informed of all changes therein which may be made form time to time.
3. Duty Leave. -
(i) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave :- Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to grant
permission if, in its discretion, the exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal. The Employer will generally grant
permission for not less than two Office Bearers of  the Union.
(a) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the he Employer’s Federation of Ceylon or the Department of Labour,
in connection with a dispute between the Employees and Employer,
or

<!-- page 16 -->

16 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
(b) To attend inquiries before Industrial Court, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals or Department of Labour without loss
of wages for such absence.
(ii) (a) In respect of the Annual General Meeting of the Branch Union, the Employer shall subject to the discretion)
referred to at sub clause (i) above, permit two hours paid leave for a member of the Union to attend such Annual
General Meeting.
(iii) The Employer will in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration, to an employee to attend a Trade Union
Course or Seminar or Conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad, unless the Employee concerned is entitled to
annual or other  holidays which he wishes to utilize for the purpose.
4. Check Off. –
(i) For the purpose of this clause the Employer shall be bound to grant check off to the Union only if the membership of
the Union is not less than forty percent (40%) of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement.
(ii) The Employer shall; on the Written request of an employee, deduct from the wages due to such employee the current
monthly Union, dues as are specified by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to the Union and remit
the amount so deducted to the Union, in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions
hereinafter set forth.
(iii) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the
form set out in Form No. 1 hereinafter referred to as an “Authorization”.
(iv) Every E mployee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check off at any time by signing a statement to that
effect in the form set out in form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a “Revocation” as set out in the Third Schedule hereto.
(v) As far as practicable, deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date
of receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(vi) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorizations shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation canceling
such authorization.  Provided however -
(a) That an Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with Sub - clause (5) or (6) ;
(b) That, at his discretion, the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check off in any month
in which the deduction by way of check off will together with all other deductions from the Employee’s wages
in that month exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(vii) The Employer shall not later than the tenth day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
employees in the month immediately preceding to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
Authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and cross “Account Payee”.
(viii) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelope
addressed to the Treasurer of the Union as its address for the time being.
(ix) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(x) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf, as aforesaid, any sum other than
the Union dues actually deducted.
(xi) If for the purpose of this clause it becomes necessary to decide the question of whether a Trade Union represents not
less than 40% of the Employees concerned, the same shall be determined by a referendum which shall be held by the
Department of Labour and the result of such Referendum shall be binding on the parties hereto.

<!-- page 17 -->

17 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
SCHEDULE I
Salary Scales in respect of employees who are in perment employment as at the date of singing the agreement.
Clerical and Supervisory Staff
Grade I Rs. 15,602.50 43,732.00 Rs. 70.50
Grade II Rs. 16,040.00 47,008.00 Rs. 79.00
Higher Grade Rs. 16,333.50 51,447.50 Rs. 90.50
Special Grade Rs. 16,683.50 59,307.50 Rs.111.00
Technical Staff
Grade I Rs. 5,679.50 43,809.00 Rs. 70.50
Grade II Rs. 16,051.00 47,019.00 Rs. 79.00
Higher Grade Rs. 16,344.00 51,458.00 Rs. 90.50
Special Grade Rs. 16,677.50 59,301.50 Rs. 111.00
Minor Staff
Rs. 15,455.00 Rs. 43,338.00 Rs. 62.00
SCHEDULE II
BENIFITS/ CONCESSIONS TO EMPLOYEES
1. Soft Drinks Issues.-
(a) 24 bottles free of charge per month per employee.
(b) Funeral of an employee 10 dozens free of charge.
(c) Wedding of an employee - subject to one wedding during an employee’s tenure of service - 6 dozens free of charge.
(d) Funeral of a dependent -200 bottles at ex-factory price.
2. Ice Cream Issue.- 4 litres of Ice Cream to be issued at the ex-factory price less Rs. 15/- per month per employee.
3. Free Mid-Day Meal.
4. Medical benefit under a surgical and hospitalisation insurance cover, where an employee could claim up to Rupees ThirteenThousand
(Rs. 13,000/-) in any one claim with a maximum limit of Rupees Thirty Five Thousand (Rs. 35,000/-) for a year.
5. Funeral Aid Scheme.–
(a) A Grant of Rs. 25,000/- in the event of a death of an employee in service.
(b) A Grant of Rs. 7,500/- in the event of a death of the spouse or any unmarried children under 18 years and if the employee
is unmarried, to his/her parents.
6. Welfare Shop with essential items.
7. Service Awards: –
(a) On completion of 15 years of service Rs. 5,000/-.
(b) On completion of 25 years of service - one gold sovereign and a Wall Clock.
(c) On completion of 30 years of service - one gold sovereign.
8. Retirement grant to employees.–
(a) For employees retiring after a period in excess of 15 years, a gift voucher to the value of Rs. 3,500/- to purchase
Company products.
(b) For employees retiring with less than 15 years service a gift voucher to the value of Rs. 1,250/- to purchase company
products.
9. Monthly salaries / wages to be paid on 25th of each month.
10. Opportunities being made available to suitably qualified employees in the Minor and Clarical grades to obtain appointments i n
Clerical and Executive Grades.
11. Festival Advance of Rs. 5,000/- to be paid for Sinhala/Tamil New Year or Christmas.

<!-- page 18 -->

18 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
12. An advance of Rs. 1000/- from the Lump Sum payment payable only to eligible employees for Vesak festival, subject to the
money lying to the credit of NRCLG.
13. Holiday Bungalow.–
3 Roomed Holiday Bungalow to be provided as and when available. This facility will be reviewed subject to its occupancy levels.
14. Shift Allowances.–
7.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m. Rs. 6.00
3.00 p.m. to 10.00 p.m. Rs. 6.00
10.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. Rs. 10.00
Boiler/ Engineering.–
4.00 p.m. to 12 mid night Rs. 10.00
12 midnight to 8.00 a.m. Rs. 10.00
15. Attendance/ Punctuality Bonus.–
a. A total bonus payable Rs. 360/- per month subject to deductions for absence as given below :
DEDUCTIONS FOR LEAVE
Authorised leave taken Deductions (Rs.)
1/2 day Nil
1 day Nil
1 and 1/2 day Nil
2 days Nil
2 and 1/2 days 75.00
3 days 150.00
3 and 1/2 days 200.00
4 days not eligible
• Accident Leave, continuous 7 days Annual Leave, Special Leave and Duty Leave will not be counted as absence for deduction.
• Any walkouts of more than 4 hours continuously will be considered as 1 day’s leave for this purpose.
• Periods of strikes will be regarded as absence.
• Employees guilty of unauthorised absence and / or who avail themselves of unpaid sick leave for any period will forfeit their right to the
attendance / punctuality bonus.
• Deductions for late attendance :
Late in minutes Deductions
15 Nil
30 Rs. 15.00
45 Rs. 30.00
60 Rs. 50.00
75 Rs. 75.00
90 Rs. 100.00
105 Rs. 125.00
120 not eligible
A quarterly bonus of Rs. 600/- will be paid for employees who collect the full payment of Rs. 360/- in the 3 months representing such
quarter. The year for this purpose shall be from January to December.
16. Spectacle Purchase Expenses Reimbursement.–
Reimburse expenses related to purchase of spectacles of Rs. 1,500, once in 3 years on the production of prescriptions and payment
receipt based on reference and approval of the Company Doctor only in respect of permanent employee.
17. Book Advance .–
A book advance of Rs. 1000/- in December subject to prevailing conditions.

<!-- page 19 -->

19 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
FORM  No.  1
Name of Employer :
Authorisation
I, being an employee covered and bound by this Collective Agreement signed between the Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial and General Workers’
Union (CMU) of which I am a member of Ceylon Cold Stores Limited, kindly request the Company to deduct from my salary each month a sum
of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and, remit the same to the said Union on my behalf. The
first payment should please be made form my wages next due immediately following the date hereof.
Signature of Employee : Date :
Full Name of Employee :
Received on :
(To be filled by Employer)
FORM  No.  2
Name of Employer :
Revocation
With reference to the Authorisation submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour of the
Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial and General Workers Union (CMU) with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following
the date hereof.
Signature of Employee : Date :
Full Name of Employee :
Received on :
(To be filled by Employer)
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and II of the Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set
opposite to them.
Words M eaning
The Act The Shop and Office Employees (Regulation of Employment and Remuneration)
Act No. 19 of 1954.
Check Off The act of the Employer deducting, at the request of the Union subscriptions
payable to the Union by an Employee from the latter’s pay with his concurrence.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
The Federation The Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.
Employee (For convenience sometimes referred An employee covered and bound by this Agreement
to as ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)
Employer (For convenience sometimes referred An employer covered and bound by this Agreement
to as ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive an increment

<!-- page 20 -->

20 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2017 .01.11
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
Union or Unions The Union covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.h
Branch Union The Branch Union of the Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial and General Worker’s
Union (CMU) in the establishment of the Employer.
Wage The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the Schedule
hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the
succeeding Saturday night.
Year A continuous period of twelve (12) months.
Weekly full holiday in respect of any week Shall have the same meaning as “weekly holiday” under the shop / Office
Employees’ Act.
Weekly half holiday in respect of any week Shall have the same meaning as “weekly half holiday” in the shop & Office
Employees’ Act.
Two such weekly holidays Two full holidays or four half holidays or any combination of full or half
holidays which does not exceed two full holidays.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.
01 - 829

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'01'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
21A
My No.: CI/1494
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
The Collective Agreement entered into between Sri Lankan Airlines Limited, Airline Centre, Bandaranaike International Airport ,Katunayake
of the one part and the Airline Pilots's Guild of Sri Lanka, 216/45, Diyawanna Place, Welikada, Rajagiriya of the other part on 12th day of
September 2015 is hereby published in terms of section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of the Legislative Enactm ents of
Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
M.D.C.AMARA TUNGA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
30
th December, 2016.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT No. 22 OF 2015
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is entered into on this 12th day of September 2014 by and between Sri Lankan Airlines Limited, a company duly registered
in Sri Lanka bearing company registration number PB67 and having its registered office at Airline Centre, Bandaranaike International Airport,
Katunayake, Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as '' the Comapny'' or ''Employer '' as applicable which term or expression shal l, unless
repugnant to the   context or meaning there of, mean and include its successors and permittd assigns) and The  Airline Pilots' Guild of Sri
Lanka, a trade union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at 216/45, Diyawanna Place, Welikada, Rajagiriya Sri Lanka
(hereinafter referred to as '' the Guild'' or ''the Union'' as applicable, which expression wherever the context so admits shall include and mean
its successors and assigns).
WHEREAS the Company and the Guild have , after negotiations, arrived at the following terms of settlement in order to revise, terms
and conditions specifically set out herein:
1. Parties Covered and Bound.–   This Agreement shall cover and bind the company and the Guild and its members who are
employed as Flight crew on contracts of employment based on local terms in the Flight Operations Grade structure of the
Company. And other individual flight crew employed on contracts of employment based on local terms who are not members of the
Guild but nonetheless desirous of accepting the terms and conditions of this Agreement by signing on an individual basis.
2. Effective Date and Operation of the Agreement.– This Agreement shall take effect from 1
st September 2014 and shall, unless it
is repudiate by either party by giving one month's written notice to the other in terms of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes
Act, continue to remain in force.
Provided however, neither party to this Agreement shall give such notice of repudiation prior to the 31 st July 2017, and this
Agreement shall not stand terminated prior to the 31st August 2017.
The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall continue to remain in force and survive from and after 31st  August 2017 until the
signing of a new collective agreement after negotiations between the Parties.
3. Earlier Agreements.– This Agreement shall supersede all other collective Agreements entered into before by the Parties  and it
is  also agreed that the collective Agreement No.68 of 2010 entered into between parties on 3 rd November 2010 shall stand
repudiated with effect from the date of signing this Agreement.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'01'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  11.01.2017
4. Existing  Terms and Conditions.–
Parties agree that subject to the revision of terms and conditions specifically set out in this Agreement all existing terms hitherto
applicable shall continue to be force.
For instance, where the existing terms and conditions of employment of an employee covered and bound by this Agreement are more
favourable than the terms and conditions provided for in this Agreement then nothing in this Agreement shall in anyway affect  or
prejudice such existing terms and conditions of  employment and such terms and conditions shall continue to exist  notwithstanding
anything to the  contray contained herein.Likewise, all rights and obligations as well as terms and conditions that accure in favour
of the company and which have not been revised by this Agreement shall continue to subsist.
5. Recognition.–
5.1 The Company recognizes the right of the Guild to represent the interests of, and when required negotiate on behalf of ,all
categories of Flight Crew who are members of the Guild and who are employed on contracts of employment based on local terms
as Flight crew in the flight Operations Grade structure of the Company.
5.2 The Company recognizes the right of the Guild to exercise its functions in accordance with the laws of Sri Lanka, and to manage
the Guild's affairs without interference.
5.3 Such recognition by the company of the Guild shall continue as long as the Guild holds the status of collective Bargaining Agent of
the Flight crew for the Flight Operations Grades of the company, and can verify that at least 40% of all Flight crew  employed by
the company on contracts of employment based on local terms as flight crew are members of the Guild.
5.4 The Guild recognizes the right of the company to plan, organize and manage the operation of each location in a manner which is not
inconsistent with this Agreement in order to achieve maximum safety, efficiency and profitability in the operation.This right includes
inter alia the recruitment, enagagement, training, control, discipline, termination, upgrading, promotion, demotion,transfer and dis
missal of employees(in accordance with the laws of Sri Lanka and the procedures and manuals of the Company etc). This right
also includes inter alia the determination of the rosters, working patterns and times.methods and manner of working, the introduc
tion of technical improvements and the decision to modify extend, curtail or cease operations and all safety aspects of the operation.The
Company will always exercise the above mentioned rights bona fide, reasonably and fairly within the limits prescribed under this
Agreement, and all applicable procedures and manuals of the company, and all applicable laws.
6. Monthly Basic Salary Scales.–
6.1 The salary scales applicable to Captains covered by this agreement with effect from the 1st of April 2015 shall be as follows:
Captains
New Step Salary USD Conversion from Current Step
A 7,890 –
B 8,160 1,2
C 8,430 3,4
D 8,710 5,6
E 8,980 7,8

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'01'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
23A
New Step Salary USD Conversion from Current Step
F 9,250 9,10
G 9,550 11,12
H 9,810 13,14
I 9,940 15
J 10,090 16
K 10,230 17
L 10,360 18
M 10,540 19
N 10,680 20
O 10,830 –
P 10,980 –
Q 11,120 –
R 11,270 –
S 11,420 –
T 11,570 –
Salaries of Captains eligible  to step increases shall thereafter received such revised salaries on 1st April in each successive year in terms of the
scales set out above.
6.2 Provided however in the case of those captains presently placed on steps 2,4,6,8,10,12 and 14 on the existing scales, they will
be placed on steps B, C, D, E, F, G and H respectively in the new scale set out in 6.1 above , as applicable, with effect from
1st September 2014.
6.3 The salary scales applicable to first Officers covered by this Agreement with effect from 1st April 2015 shall be as follows:
First Officers
New Step Salary USD Conversion from Current Step
1J 3,610 –
2J 3,700 –
3J 3,800 –
A 4,710 4
B 5,050 5
C 5,480 6
D 5,550 7
E 5,600 8
F 5,650 9
G 5,700 10

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'01'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  11.01.2017
New Step Salary USD Conversion from Current Step
H 5,750 11
I 5,800 12
J 5,850 13
K 5,900 14
L 5,950 15
With the exception of first officers placed on steps 1J, 2J and 3J salaries of first Officers eligible to step increases shall thereafter receive such
revised salaries on 1st April in each successive year in terms of the scales set out above.
6.4 However, with the exeception of those first officers who are presently on steps 1J, 2J and 3J and for whom similar steps hav e
been provided for in the new salary scales set out in 6.3 above,all other first officers presently placed on step 4 and above will be
placed on the new salary scales ( vide 6.3 above) in the manner depicted in the 3rd column titled ''conversion from current step''
in the matrix set out in 6.3 above, with effect from1st September 2014.
6.5 It is agreed by the Guild that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated in the Flight Operations Manual or any other
document, the Absolute Limit of Flying Hours for Flight crew members shall continue to be 1000 hours within a period of 12
months.
7. Productivity Incentive Bonus.–
It is agreed that the Company shall introduce a new productivity incentive bonus scheme that will come into effect from the 1st September
2014, in terms of the table set out below.
HOURS CAPTAIN FIRST OFFICER
Per month (Used per Hour) (Used per Hour)
0-65 18 12
66-85 25 17
Above 85 35 24
It is agreed by the Parties that the incentive bonus will be paid only to those eligible to receive the payment monthly based on the block times
of the flight and will not be subject to a minimum payment.In the event the block time is exceeded by thirty (30) minutes or more, then the
incentive payable for such flight shall be on the actual time of the flight.
Furthermore it is agreed by the  Parties that the monthly incentive shall not form part of the monthly wage of the employees covered and
bound and accordingly shall not attract consequential benefits such as EPF, ETF and gratuity.
8. Payment for Working on a ' OFF DAY' –
Flight crew covered by this Agreement will be entitle to a payment when called to work on the '' off day '' as follows:
Captains – USD 400 per occasion
First Officers – USD 300 per occasion
9. Loss of License Insurance Scheme–
In the event the Flight Crew member is permanently unable to maintain a License to fly as required by the company and / or the Civil
Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka due to medical reasons,such Flight crew member shall be entitled to the benefits set out below and the
at the discretion of the Company, could be employed to perform duties assigned by the company.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'01'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
25A
Category Less than 5 5-15 Years in rank Over 15 years
Years in rank
Local Captain USD 125,000 USD 150,000 USD175,000
Local First Officer USD 100,000 USD 125,000 USD 125,000
In addition to the above payment , all Flight Crew will be paid  USD 50,000 along with the following payments whichever is applicable:
(a) In the event of Loss of License due to permanent total disability on medical or illiness grounds to a sum equivalent to 60  months
basic salary (60 months to be capped at 55 years. If the Flight Crew employee is above 55 years, the remaining number of
months of service up to the age of 60 shall be taken into account in calculating the months of salary payable);
(b) In the event of Loss of License due to permanent total disability caused by an  accident to a sum equivalent to 84 months' basic
salary( Subject to policy conditions).
10. Warm Clothing Allowance.–
The warm clothing allowance for Flight Crew who are required to perform operational flying duty to Overseas locations
where warm clothing is deemed necessary will be eligible to receive an allowance of USD 400 once in every two years. This
new scheme shall be applicable from the date of signing of this Agreement.
11. Subsistence Whilst on Layover Trips
Meal/ Subsistence Captain First Officer
Breakfast/ Lunch/Dinner USD 25/25/25 USD 25/25/25
Overnight USD 40 USD 30
A320( Turnaround) USD 8 per hours USD 7 per hour
The parties agree to review these amounts in three years.
12. Travel Benefits and Concessions. -
It is agreed by the Company to implement the travel benefits in respect of employees covered and bound by this
Agreement as follows:
(a) To continue the present benefit of offering one set of ID90 tickets on confirmed basis per year upon the completion of
10 years and thereafter in accordance with the conditions applicable prior to this Agreement coming in to force without
any restrictions even in the event of an embargo.
(b) To grant one more set of ID90 tickets on confirmed basis per year upon the completion of 10 years and thereafter
subject to embargo periods that will be stipulated by the Company  which shall be notified 6 months prior to the
commencement of the schedule.
(c) One set of ID90 tickets on confirmed basis shall be offered every year in the case of Flight Crew who have completed
continuous service of three to ten years and subject to embargo periods that  will be stipulated by the Company,which
shall be notified 6 months prior to the commencement of the schedule.
(d)All requests for ID90 confirm  tickets to be made with a minimum period of one month prior to the date of travel.
All other terms and conditions in relation to employee travel benefits and concessions as per the staff travel policy shall
remain unchanged.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'01'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –  11.01.2017
13. Long Service Benifits.–
(a). On completion of 20 years of continuous service, an additional 2 weeks of paid leave shall be granted. This is to be
continued to be granted every 5 years until retirement at 60 years.
(b). Flight crew who have already completed 20 years of continuous service will be eligible for this additional 2 weeks of paid
leave immediately on singing of this agreement and it will be repeated every 5 years until retirement at 60 years.
(c) Flight crew who are eligible for the said two (2) weeks of paid leave shall be entitled to utilize same within a period of five
(5) years. If the company is unable to grant the said leave, the individual has the option of trading in the leave/ the balance
leave at the end of the 5 year period for two weeks' basic salary/ prorated basic salary for number of remaining  days.
(d) On retirement after 25 years of continuous service, all fight crew shall be eligible for a set of sub load tickets every year
on the class of travel at the time of retirment.
14. Trade Union Action.–  The Employer, the Guild and members of the Guild as well as the Employees covered and bound by
this Agreement undertake that they shall not during the continuance of this Agreement seek to vary or change, in any manner, any of the
terms and conditions agreed upon herein unless and except through discussion and mutual agreement.
The Guild and the Employees covered and bound agree that they shall not resort to any form of trade union action in relation to any dispute
connected with or arising our of any matter covered by this Agreement, except in a situation as provided for in clause 15 below.
15. Breach of Agreement by Parties.–  In the event of a breach of the provisions of this Agreement by either party it is agreed by
both parties that they shall first endeavor to resolve such matter through conciliation with the assistance of the commissioner  General of
Labour.
Parties agree that they shall extend their fullest cooperation to the Commissioner General of Labour to conclude the conciliation proceedings
within the shortest practicable period of time.
If such matter cannot be resolved as set out above and if the Company is responsible for the said breach, then the Guild and its members shall
have the right to take trade union action. Provided however the Guild shall not resort to such action in pursuance of their rights without giving
seven days prior written notice to the company.
Likewise, if the Union and its members as well as the employees covered and bound are responsible for the breach, the company reserves the
right to withdraw the facility of check- off to the Guild and all or any of the facilities or benefits granted to employees by this Agreement.
Provided however it is agreed by the company to give seven days prior written notice to the union before taking such action.
16. Matters not covered by the Agreement and Disputes settlement Procedure.–  Both parties will have the right to raise issues and
make demands of matters not covered by this Agreement.
In the event of a grievance and/or dispute arising in relation to any matter not covered by this Agreement it is agreed by parties that
they shall settle such grievance and/or dispute by stricity adhering to the Grievance and Disputes Handilng Policy applicable to the flight
crew as specifically set out in clause 18(4) in the People Administration and Engagement policy Manual to resolve such grievance and/or
dispute.
17. Parties commit themselves to uphold the terms of this Agreement in the spirit of a collective bargaining and foster mutual
understanding at all times with objective of maintaining industrial peace and harmony at the work place as well as safeguard each other's best
interest.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'01'11
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2017
27A
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HERETO HA VE CAUSED THIER AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES TO SET THEIR HANDS HEREUNTO AND TO FOUR
OTHER OF THE SAME TENOR ON THIS TWELFTH DAY OF SEPTEMBER, TWO THOUSAND AND FOURTEEN, IN COLOMBO.
01 - 830
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA