

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
789
789
wxl 1"860 - 2014 wfm%a,a 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'04'25
No. 1,860 – FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 792
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 798
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th May, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd May,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Part II of the Gazette No. 1,859 of 17.04.2014 was not published.
(ii) The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in October to December, 2011 registered under the printers and Publishers Ordinance
has been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
790
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
791
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
792
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
MONARAGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 26th May , 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
02nd April, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Monaragala Katharagama Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Marriages (General) of Katharagama General, Dist rict Secretariat,
Division Monaragala.
04–599
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
793
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 26th May , 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
03rd April, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Harispattu Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Medasiyapattu No. 02 Division and General, District Secretariat,
Post of Marriage Registrar of Kandy.
Harispattu (Kandyan/General)
04–745
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry  of  Sports
RECRUITMENT TO POST OF LEGAL  OFFICER  (EXECUTIVE  GRADE III)  ON OPEN
COMPETITIVE  BASIS
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who possess the following qualifications to be considered for the Post of L egal
Officer in the Ministry of Sports.
01. Mode of recruitment.– Candidates who fulfill the following qualifications laid down in the notification will be recruited on
the basis of the results of a structured interview depending on the numbers of vacancies. Structured interview will be held in accordance
with the marking scheme (indicated under No. 06) approved by the Public Service Commission.
02. Qualifications :
(i) Educational/Professional qualifications. – Should have obtained a Degree in Law from a University recognized by the
University Grant Commission/should have taken oaths as a Lawyer of Supreme Court.
(ii) Experience.– Should possess not less than three (03) year’s active professional experience after taking oaths as a Lawyer
of Supreme Court.
(iii) Physical qualifications .– Should be physically and mentally fit for service in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge the
functions of the post.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
794
(iv) Other qualifications :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
* Should bear an excellent moral character.
* Should have fulfilled all the requisite qualifications for post as at the closing date of application.
03. Terms and conditions of employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. He/She should contribute to the Widows and Orphans Pensions Scheme.
(ii) This appointment is subject to three years probation period. Within three year’s of appointment to the post of Legal
Officer (Grade III) he/she should pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination.
(iii) Within a period of five (5) years of appointment to the post proficiency in the official language (other than the
medium in which he/she was recruited) should be obtained and in case of those who joined the service in a non-official
language, Should obtain proficiency in the official language within the probation period.
(iv) This appointment is subject to Public Service Commission procedures, the Establishment Code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government and other Departmental orders.
04. Age Limit.– Not less than 21 years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of applications.
05. This post carries a monthly salary scale of Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 - 8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Salary Segment SL-1-2006
of PA Circular No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006).
06. Structural interview is based on the following making scheme :
Subject Maximum
Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications : 20
A Law Degree obtained from a University recognized by the University Grants
Commission
- First Class pass 20
- Second Class (Upper Division) pass 15
- Second Class (Lower Division) pass 10
First class pass - final year Law College 15
Second class pass - final year Law College 10
Note.– A honours pass in the final year be given 10 marks
Marks are given only the for maximum qualification
(for a Degree or one of Law College qualifications)
02. Additional Professional Qualifications : 15
A Post Graduate Diploma or Post Diploma in Law in the relevant field of not less than
one year awarded by a recognized institution
(05 marks for each Diploma)
A Diploma (not less than 06 months) in the relevant field awarded by a recognized
institution
(03 marks for each Diploma)
A certificate course (not less than 03 months) in the relevant field awarded by a
recognized institution
(02 marks for each course of study)
03. Additional experience : 30
Experience as a Lawyer in Public Sector or Private Sector more than 06 months and
less than one year - 02 marks
Maximum 30 marks (05 marks for each year)
(Excluding the initial requirement of 03 years of service as a Lawyer)
(A certificate obtained from an Attorney-at-law or a Presidential Counsel or a judge with a
service period not less than 20 years, should be produced to prove additional experience)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
795
Subject Maximum
Marks
04. Knowledge in Information Technology : 15
For a Degree for which technology has been offered as a main subject in a University 15
recognized by the University Grants Commission
For a Diploma course in Information Technology 10
(not less than one year or not less than 1500 hrs)
Followed in an institution recognized by Government
For a certificate course in Information Technology in an institution recognized by
Government
- 06 months/720 hrs 07
- 03 months/360 hrs 05
05 Proficiency in English Language : 15
Post Graduate Degree certificate/Degree/Post Graduate Degree in Law/Degree in Law in 15
English medium.
(Should have answered in English for all question papers at all relevant examinations)
For a Diploma in English Langauge obtained from a University recognized by the 10
University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by Government.
(one year or 1500 hrs)
For a certificate course in English obtained from a university recognized by the
University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by Government
- 06 months/720 hrs 07
- 03 months/360 hrs 05
06 Performance at the interview 05
Total 100
07. Identity of Candidates .– Only all those who have submitted duly completed applications will be called for the structured
interview.
Originals of all certificates and copies duly certified should be produced as required at the interview.
To prove identity, the following are accepted as valid :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons.
(ii) V alid Passport.
08. ( a) Applications should be sent to reach the following address by registered post on or before 19.05.2014. Applications
received after the closing date will be rejected :
Secretary,
Ministry of Sports,
No. 09, Philip Gunawardene Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
(b) An specimen application form is given at the end of this notification. Application should be prepared using both sides
of A4 size paper.
(c) The post applied for should be written on the top left - hand corner of the envelope.
(i) Signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/
Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-law/Notary Public/Commissioned Officer in the forces or a public officer
drawing a monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 27,935.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
796
(ii) The officers in public service or Provincial Public Service
should submit applications through their Heads of
Departments.
(iii) Applications which have not been submitted according
to the above stated specimen form will be rejected and
complaints regarding lost or delayed applications will
not be entertained.
09. Furnishing bogus Information.– If any information furnished
in your application found to be false or incorrect before recruitment
your candidature will be cancelled.
If such information was found to be false or incorrect after the
recruitment you will be dismissed subject to relevant procedures.
Filling the vacancies or leaving the vacancies unfilled will be at the
discretion of the Public Service Commission.
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
A. M. J
AY AWICKRAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Sports.
APPLICATION FORM FOR POST OF LEGAL OFFICER IN THE
MINISTRY OF SPORTS
01. (i) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(ii) Names indicated by initials :––––––––––––.
02. Private address :––––––––––––.
03. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
04. Office address :––––––––––––.
(If already in Public Service)
05. Sex :––––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
07. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
08. Age as at 19.05.2014 :
Years :––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
09. Civil status :––––––––––––.
10. Have you been found guilty of any crime by courts ? Yes/No.
:––––––––––––.
If the answer is "yes" please furnish the particulars :–––––––.
11. Declaration of applicant :
I certify that the foregoing facts are true and correct. If any of
the above facts found to be false or incorrect before enrolment, I
know that I am liable to be disqualified and if any incorrect
information is detected after enrolment I am liable to be dismissed.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
12. Head of Department's Certificate :
(If the applicant is a public employee)
I certify that the information furnished by Mr./Mrs./Miss
........................ is correct and he/she has been serving in this
Department/Institution in the capacity of .................... since
.................. and he/she is not subject to any disciplinary action and
if he/she is selected to this post he/she can be released from the
post presently he/she is holding.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
04–734
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Recruitment for the Post of Video Cameraman on
Temporary Basis
APPLICATIONS are called from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the
undermentioned qualifications for recruitment on temporary basis
to fill the vacancies in the post of Video Cameraman in the Ministry
of Justice.
01. Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed six (6)
subjects at the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination in one sitting with at least four credit passes including
Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil/English Languages.
02. Professional Qualifications.– Should have followed a course
on photography not less than NVQ-Level V (National Vocational
Qualifications) and obtained certificates.
03. Experience.– Special preference is given to the experience in
the relevant field.
04. Physical fitness. – Should be of sound mental and physical
fitness to perform the duties in the post in any part of the island.
05. Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years of age and not
mroe than 45 years fo age as at the closing date of applications.
06. Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should bear an excellent moral character.
(iii) All necessary qualifications should be fulfilled by the
applicants as at the date mentioned in the Gazette

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
797
Notification calling for applications. Copy of the
Certificate of the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination, copies of
the certificates of professional qualifications and
experience and the copies of the Birth Certificate and
National Identity Card should also be submitted along
with the application. Applicants who fail to attach the
relevant copies of certificates to the applications will not
be called for the interview.
07. Salary scale. – Monthly allowance of Rs. 14,425 will be
paid.
08. Method of Recruitment on temporary basis.– Recruitment is
made on merit at a practical test and structural interview.
09. Nature of the duty :
1. Videoing special occasions and editing.
2. Take charge and maintenance of the video equipment and
editing room.
3. Take charge and maintenance of the video record room.
4. Maintaining a register on video tapes and indexing.
5. Take charge of the inventory of the video recording unit
and its stores.
6. Preparation of estimates.
7. Use of any type of camera, taking gemit photographes
and digital photographs and editing.
8. Computerized editing and any other duties entrusted by
the Head of the Department.
10. Conditions of Service.– This post is temporary and does not
carry with it any claim right, privileges and preferential claim
whatsoever to any permanent employment or a permanent officer
is entitled to.
11. Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen form
appended to this notice should be filled correctly and sent by
registered post to the undermentioned address on or before
09.05.2014. The words "Post of Video Cameraman in the Ministry
of Justice." should be written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application. Applicants already in the
public service should send their applications through the Head of
the respective Department/Institution.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
12. Marking Scheme at the Practical Test :
Areas for which marks are Maximum Pass
awarded Marks Marks
01. Ability to operate video cameras and 30
related instruments
02. Competence in selection of locations 20
and sceneries suitable for the
professional coverage and collection
of data
03. Ability to apply natural light for 20
television scenes and electric lighting
for filming 40%
04. Ability to edit news using 10
computer technology
05. Acquaintance with the cassette 10
recording technology and the usage
of connected apparatus
06. General familiarity in filming at 10
television studioes
Total 100
The marking scheme at the structural interview :
Areas for which marks are awarded Maximum Minimum
Marks Marks
awarded considered
for
recruitment
Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Additional Professional Qualifications 25
Professional Experience 30 Not
Information Technology/Computer 10 applicable
Literacy
Language Proficiency 10
Performance shown at the interview 05
Note.– Recruitment will be made in the order of merit at the
practical test and structural interview depending on the
number of existing vacancies.
13. The application should be completed accurately in all
respects. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
No allegation that an application and attached documents have
been lost in the post can be entertained.
14. If any particulars furnished in the application are found to
be false or incorrect, he/she is liable to be disqualified before selection
and to be dimissed if the inaccuracy is discovered after the
appointment.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
798
The authority to determine any matter not provided for in this
notice is vested in the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice.
KAMALINIE DE SILV A,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Colombo 12,
19th January, 2014.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF VIDEOGRAPHER ON TEMPORARY
BASIS IN THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
No. :.....................
(For office use only)
01. Full Name :
In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :
In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––.
03. Residential address :
In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––.
04. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
05. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
06. N. I. C. No. :–––––––––––.
07. Sex :–––––––––––.
08. Marital status :–––––––––––.
09. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
11. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
(As per the notice calling for application)
12. Experience :–––––––––––.
(As per the notice calling for application)
13. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
14. I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and correct. I am also aware that, any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification, if detected before selection and to dismissal
without compensation, if detected after appointment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................., the
applicant above named is serving at ............................ (Department/
Ministry) as a ...................... on permanent/temporary/casual basis
and that the particulars furnished by him/her in this application are
correct as per his/her personal file and that no any disciplinary
action has been taken against this officer and that his/her work,
attendance and conduct are satisfactory. I also inform that if this
officer will be selected for the above post, he/she can be/cannot be
released from the service.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and the official seal of the
Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
04–618
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment of the Students for the Training of the Professions Supplementary to Medicine and
Para Medical Services - 2014
AMENDMENT  MADE TO  THE  NOTIFICATION  PUBLISHED  IN THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  OF  MARCH  28,  2014  BY THE  SECRETARY  OF THE  MINISTRY OF HEALTH
THE closing date of applications is extended to 09.05.2014.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.04.2014
799
02. Course No. 12 in the above Gazette notification is cancelled.
03. Training courses as given below are included as Number 11 and 12 in the section 4 on the page No. 8 in the relevant Gazette
notification.
Code T raining G . C. E. (O/L) G .  C. E. (A/L) Other specific
No. Course Qualifications Qualifications qualifications relevant
for the training course
13 Entomological Should have passed the G . C. E. Should have passed in two subjects * Only the male
Assistant (O/L) Examination with at least in one sitting from Chemistry, applicants are
credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil Physics, Agriculture and along permitted to apply.
language, Mathematics, Science with a credit pass for Biology at
including another subject not the G . C. E. A/L Examination
more than two attempts with
English Language
14 School Dental Should have passed the G . C. E. Should have passed in two subjects * Only the female
Therapist (O/L) Examination with at least in one sitting from Chemistry, applicants are
credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil Physics, Agriculture and along permitted to apply.
language, Mathematics, Science with a credit pass for Biology at * Height should be 4 feet
including another subject not the G . C. E. A/L Examination 10 inches or more.
more than two attempts with * All the applicants
English Language should be single/
bachelor
04. A part (B) in the section 6 of the said gazette notification is cancelled and it should be amended as follows :
6. (B) The signature of the candidate should be attended by a principal of a government school or Justice of the Peace ; or
Commissioner Oaths or Attorney-at-Law ; or Public Notary or authorized other in the Armed Forces or an officers who
holds a Gazetted Post in Police service another whose annual consolidated salary is more than Rs. 273,060 and who
holds a permanent post in the public service.
05. It should be marked “3” in the relevant case with regard to the facts under the sections No. 7, 8, 9 and 11 in the applications
in the above gazette notification.
06. Part (i) in the section No. 08 in the said gazette notification is cancelled and it should be amended as follows :
12(i) application selected from the interview will be attended to the training schools to follow the relevant course. The
course should follow in the medium which is mentioned before the each course in the above Gazette notification.
07. Following section should be courses are included as 13(i) :
* For the services of Professions Supplementary to Medicine given under Code Numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and Para Medical
Services given under Numbers 9, 10, 11, 12.
Grade III - Rs. 15,440 -5x180 -5x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 28,260.
* For the Para medical services given under No. 6 :
Grade III - Rs. 15,260 - 6x180 -4x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 28,020.
* For the Para medical Services given under Numbers 7, 8 :
Grade III - Rs. 15,080 -7x180 - 3x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,780.
Any question that is not covered by this Gazette notification, the decision of the Secretary of the Ministry of Health will be
final.
Dr. N
IHAL D. JAYA THILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
09th April, 2014.
04–717
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.