

<!-- page 1 -->

N.B.—Part I : III of the Gazette No. 2210 of 01.01.2021 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
AtteNtIoN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  05th February,  2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd   January, 2021.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2020.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province  ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... 
2Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 
(published by authority)
pa rt  III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"211- 2021 ckjdß ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'01'15  
No. 2,211 - FRID Ay,  JANUARy   15, 2021
                                
B 82095-353 (01/2021) 1
—

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'15
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 15.01.2021
2
miscellaneous lands notices
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General: - 4/10/54769.
Ref. No. of Deputy Land Commissioner: - EP/28/LB/Tri/
Vim/Gen/2017.
notIfIcatIon  made under state land 
regulatIon no. 21(2)
It is hereby notified that for the purpose of Agriculture. 
Nagenahiru Development society has requested on lease a 
state land containing in extent about Acre 50 out of extent 
marked lots  A & B as depicted in the Plan No. 3772 situated 
in the Village of Kuda Ottachchankulam with belongs to the 
232 B Pulikandikulam Division of coming within the area of 
authority of Gomarankadawala Divisional Secretariat in the 
District of Trincomalee.
02. The boundaries of the land  of Lot A requested are given 
below.
On the North by  :  State Land ;
On the East by  :  State Land ;
On the South by   :  (Path) State Land; 
On the West by  :  State Land. 
Given below are the  boundaries of the  Lot  B of  requested 
land.
On the North by  :  (Path) State Land ;
On the East by  :  State Land ;
On the South  :  State Land; 
On the West by  :  State Land. 
The requested land can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions and 
the following conditions.
 (a) Terms of the lease .- Thirty years. (30) (28.12.2020 
Onwards);
the annual rent of the lease : In the instances where the 
assessed value of the land in the year is less than Five Million 
Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000) 2% of the Unimproved value of the 
land in the said year, as per the valuation of the chief valuer. 
In the instances where the assessed value of the land in the 
effective year of the lease in the more than Five Million Rupees 
(Rs. 5,000,000), 4% of the Unimproved value of the land in 
the said year, as a per valuation of the chef valuer. The amount 
of the lease must be revised in the every Five years and the 
revision shall add 20% to the amount that just preceded.
 Premium         :  Not levied
 (b)  the lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary.
 (c)  The lessee must not use this land for any purposes 
other than for the purpose of Agricultural activities.
 (d) This lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping committee/Board of Investment of 
Sri Lanka, and by other institutions.
 (e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease.
 (g) No sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years, From 12.07.2018;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which this notice is published in 
the Gazette to the effect that this land must not be given on 
lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
 
 M. L. A. 
Sanjeewa, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 For Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
“Mihikatha Medura”, Land Secretariat, 1200/6,
Rajamalwatta Rd, Battaramulla.
15 th  January  2021. 
01-527

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'15
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 15.01.2021
3
PRINTED  AT  ThE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General: - 4/10/63816.
Ref. No. of Provincial Land Commissioner: - EP/28/LB/
LS/TRI/T&G/207.
notIfIcatIon made under state land 
regulatIon no. 21(2)
It is hereby noticed that Dynamic Technologies (Private) Ltd. 
has requested a state land allotment in extent of 03 roods 
depicted in the tracing of Colonization Officer and situated in 
the Village of Muthunagar of Muthunagar Grama Niladhari 
Division which belongs to Trincomalee Town and Gravets 
Divisional Secretary’s Division in the District of Trincomalee 
on lease.
02. The boundaries of the land requested are given below.
On the North by  :  State Land ;
On the East by  :  State Land ;
On the South by  :  State Land; 
On the West by  :  Kandy road. 
The requested land can be granted lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions and 
the following conditions.
 (a)  Term of lease.-  Thirty (30) years (from 26.10.2020 
onwards);
  Annual amount of the lease  .- In the instances where 
the valuation of land in the year 2020 is less than Five 
Million Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 2% of the market 
value of the land in the said year, as per the valuation of 
the Chief Valuer. In the instances where the valuation 
of land in the effective year of lease is more than Five 
Million Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 4% of the market 
value of the land in the said year, as per the valuation 
of the Chief Valuer. This amount of the lease must be 
revised in every five years and the revision shall be. 
added a 20% of the amount that just preceded.
  Premium: Not levied;
 (b) The lessees must, within a period of one (01) year 
from the date of commencement of the lease, develop 
the said land to the satisfaction of the Divisional 
Secretary;
 (c) The lessees must not use the said land for any purpose 
what so ever other than a commercial purpose;
 (d) This lease shall also be Subject to other special 
conditions imposed by the Divisional Secretary / 
Scopin Committee / BOl of Sri Lanka and other 
institutes;
 (e) Existing / constructed buildings must be maintained 
in a proper state of repair;
 (f) If the lessee fails lo substantiate the purpose for which 
the land was obtained within the specified period of 
time, steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of 
lease;
 (g) No permission will be granted for subleasing until 
expiry of 05 years. 
 (h) Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within 06 weeks of herein Gazette publication to the 
effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land shall 
be leased out as requested.
 M. L. A. 
Sanjeewa,
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 For Land Commissioner General.
 Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
’Mihikatha Medura’,
Land Secretariat, No. 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Bataramulla.
15th  January, 2021.
01-508 