

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014' 03'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.03.2014
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1852$34 - 2014 ud¾;= ui 05 jeks nodod - 2014'03'05
No. 1852/34  - WEDNESDAY ,  MARCH  05,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
ANIMAL  DISEASES ACT, No. 59  OF 1992
Order of Declaration of Infected Area under Section 5 and Consequential Arrangements
WHEREAS, foot and mouth disease a specified disease within the meaning of the Animal Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1992, has
been reported to have occured in several areas of the Puttalam District of the North Western Province, I, Dr. W. K. De Silva, the
Director General of Animal Production and Health, do, by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 5(1)
of the Animal Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1992, declare by this Order that -
(a)  Puttalam District of the North Western  Province to be infected area for the purposes and within meaning ;
(b)  Cattle, Buffalo, Sheep, Goat and Pig shall be the susceptible species of Animal to this Disease ;
(c) this order shall come into force on which it is published in the Gazette and shall, unless earlier revoked or
further extended in accordance with the Section 5(3) of the said Animal Diseases Act, cease to have effect
at the expiration of three months from the date hereof.
02. So long as this Order remains in force, I , the Director General of Animal Production and Health do-
(1) Hereby prohibit the following activities within or in relation to the infected area for the purpose of preventing
the spread from and controlling and containing within, the infected area, of the said foot and mouth
disease.
(a) the performance of artificial breeding procedures in the susceptible species of animals ;
(b) the slaughter of susceptible species of Animals ;
(c) holding or conducting live animal markets, shows and competitions involving the susceptible species
of animal ;
(d) sale, exposure for sale, offering for sale, store, supply or distribution of any animal of susceptible
species, animal products and infected material ;
(e) removal, taking or driving or transport within, to or from the infected area, any animal of susceptible
species of animals, animal products or the risk material, without a permit from the Government
Veterinary Surgeon of the Respective Divisional Secretariat Division issued under Section 5(4) of
the Animal Diseases Act ;
(f) throwing or otherwise placing in any body of water, any carcass or any part thereof of an animal that
at the time of its death was suspected of being, affected or contaminated with the Foot and Mouth

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014' 03'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.03.2014
2A
Disease or any other risk material that is suspected of or contaminated with the Foot and Mouth
Disease ; or
(g) placing any carcass or any part thereof, of an animal that at the time of its death was suspected of
being, affected or contaminated with the Foot and Mouth Disease, in such manner as to facilitate
other animal to consume or taking away of those carcass or any part thereof to other places.
(2) declare, in terms of Section of 6 of the said Animal Diseases Act, all the roads and thoroughfares situated
within the infected area to be remaining closed for animal traffic ;
(3) declare, by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 6(3) of the Animal Diseases Act,
No. 59 of 1992 that barriers for the purpose of giving effect to the Provisions of Section 6(1) and 6(2) be put
up at such places on the roads and thoroughfares situated within the infected area as may be specified by
the Government Veterinary Surgeon of the respective infected area.
(4) by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 7 of that Act, hereby require every
person who has in his possession or under his control any animal of susceptible species within the buffer
zone in the infected area determined by the Government Veterinary Surgeon in charge of the infected area
to have that animal vaccinated against foot and mouth disease on such date and place as may be specified
by the Government Veterinary Surgeon of that area ;
(5) by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 38 of the Aminal Diseases Act, nominate -
(a) the followinig officers of the department to be authorized officer for the purposes of Sections 3(3) to
take action to prevent the commission of the prohibited activities set out under paragraph 2(a) of this
order and to take legal action against those committing such prohibited activities and to exercise the
powers of an authorized officer under Section 13 of the Animal Diseases Act for that purpose.
(i) Director (Animal Health) of the Department of Animal Production and Health ;
(ii) Deputy Director (Animal Health) of the Department of Animal Production and Health ;
(iii) The Provincial Director of  Animal Production and Health of the North Western Province ;
(iv) The Government V eterinary Surgeon of the Puttalam District ; and
(v) Every police officers of the Sri Lanka Police.
(b) every Police officer of the Sri Lanka Police to be authorized officer for the purposes and within the
meaning of Section 6(3) of the Animal Diseases Act ;
(c) the V eterinary Investigation Officer of Puttalam to be an authorized officer for the purposes
discharging, within the area of his authority, the functions of an authorized officer under Section 14
of the Animal Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1992 and to exercise the powers of an authorized officer under
Section 13 of that Act ;
(d) every Government Veterinary Surgeon of the Puttalam District to be the Veterinary Surgeon for the
purpose of exercising the powers, duties and functions of a veterinary surgeon under Section 3(2),
5(4), 12(1) and 12(2) of that Act. ;
(e) every Government V eterinary Surgeon of the Puttalam District to be an authorized officer for the
purpose of performing and discharging the duties and functions of an authorized officer under
Section 9 and 11 of that Act and to exercise the powers of an authorized officer under Section 13, for
that purpose.
D
R. W. K. DE SILV A,
Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health.
03 - 504
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.