

<!-- page 1 -->

389 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
389
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 392
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 398
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th May, 2007, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 27th April, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,496 _ 2007 ˜æ˘œ 04 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .05.04
No. 1,496 – FRIDAY , MAY 04, 2007
N.B.— Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,495 of 27.04.2007 was not published.
(i)Note.- Ceylon Hotels Corporation (Repeal) Bill is published as a supplement  to the  Part II  of the  Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 09, 2007.
(ii)The Board of Trustees of the Hewij Trust (Incorporation  Bill is published as a supplement  to the  Part II  of the  Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 09, 2007.
(iii)Gampaha Wickramarachichi Ayurveda  Teaching Hospital (Transfer) Bill is published as a supplement  to the  Part II  of the  Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 09, 2007.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
390
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

391 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
392
Posts - Vacant
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE  AIRMEN  VACANCIES
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Airmen in the trades given below.
1. a. Trade and Educational Qualifications required :-
(1) Aeronautical Engineering
(i) Aeronautical Engine Mechanic
(ii)Air Frame Mechanic
(iii)Aero Electrical and Instrument Mechanic
(2) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
(i) Air Radio Mechanic
(ii) Telegraph Mechanic
(iii)Computer Technician
(iv) Air Communicator
(3) General Engineering
(i) Armament Mechanic
(ii)Motor Transport Mechanic
(iii)Aircraft Welder
(iv) Surface Tech
(v) Sheet Metal Worker
(vi) Operator Motor Transport
(4) Civil Engineering
(i) Mason
(ii)Plumber
(iii)Carpenter
(5) Medicals
(i) Nursing Assistant
(ii)Dental Assistant
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more
than two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) includ-
ing ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages, Math-
ematics and Science (Mathematics II, Scieence II if an applicant of
year 1999/2000). A credit pass for Mathematics/Science is essen-
tial.
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more
than two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) includ-
ing ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English Languages, Math-
ematics and Science (Mathematics II, Science II if an applicant of
year 1999/2000). A credit pass for Mathematics/Science is essen-
tial.
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more
than two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) includ-
ing ordinary passes  in Sinhala/Tamil and English Languages.
(If Mathematics/Science is /are included in the six subjects Math-
ematics II, Science II for an applicant of year 1999/2000).
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more
than two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) includ-
ing ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages, Math-
ematics and Science (Mathematics II, Science II if an  applicant of
year 1999/2000). A credit pass for Mathematics/Science is essen-
tial.
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more
than two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) includ-
ing an ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil language. (If Mathematics/
Science is/are included in the six subjects Mathematics II, Science II
for an applicant of year 1999/2000). Possession of a valid driving
Licence is essential.
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more
than two sittings (without additional and optional Subjects) includ-
ing an  ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language. (If Mathematics/
Science is /are included in the six subjects Mathematics II, Science II
for an applicant of year 1999/2000).
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more
than two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) includ-
ing an Ordinary pass in English Language and credits passes in
Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, Science (Mathematics II,
Science II if an applicant of year 1999/2000) and one other  subject.
Having three passes at the GCE (A/L) Examination in Bio Science
subject in one sitting will be a qualification for advance training.

<!-- page 5 -->

393 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
(6) Logistics
(i) Supplier
(ii)Mess Stewards
(iii)Catering Assistant
 (7) Administrative
(i) Clerk General Duties
(ii) Clerk Accounts
(8) Operations
(i) Operations Air
(ii) Fire Fighter
(iii) Dog Handler
(iv) Musician
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than
two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) including ordi-
nary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English Language and a credit in Math-
ematics/Science/Commerce and Accounts. (Mathematics II, Science II
if an applicant of year 1999/2000).
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than
two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) including ordi-
nary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English Languages. (If Mathematics/
Science is/are included in the six subjects Mathematics II, Science II for
an applicant of year 1999/2000).
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than
two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) including and
ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language. (If Mathematics/Science is/are
included in the six subjects Mathematics II, Science II for an applicant
of year 1999/2000).
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than
two sittings  (without additional and optional subjects) including ordi-
nary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English Languages and a credit in
Mathematics/Science/Commerce and Accounts. (Mathematics II, Seience
II if an applicant of year 1999/2000). Knowledge on computers will be
an added advantage.
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than
two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) including ordi-
nary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages (If Science in in-
cluded in the six subjects Science II for an applicant of year 1999/2000)
and a credit in Mathematics/Commerce and Accounts. (Mathematics II,
Science II if an applicant of year 1999/2000).
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than
two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) including an
ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language and a Credit in English language.
(If Mathematics/Science is /are included in the six subjects Mathematics
II, Science II for an applicant of year 1999/2000).
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than
two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) including ordi-
nary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages. (If Mathematics/
Science is/are included in the six subjects Mathematics II, Science II for
an applicant of year 1999/2000).
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than
two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) including an
ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language.  (If Mathematics/Science is/are
included in the six subjects Mathematics II, Science II for an applicant
of year 1999/2000).
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than
two sittings (without additional and optional subjects) including an
ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language. (If Mathematics/Science is/are
included in the six subjects Mathematics II, Science II for an applicant

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
394
(v) Gunner
(9) Police
(i) Police
b. Other Requirement :- Candidates must fulfil the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force:
(i) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(2) Age: Not less that 18 years of age and not more than 23 years as at 30th June 2007 ;
(3) Height : 5 Feet 5 inches and above ;
(4) Weight : BMI = W eight (Kg) <25
Height (M)2 ;
(5) Chest : 32" (Minimum) ;
(6) Vision Colour Standard : CP2 ;
(7) Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles) ;
(8) Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried. (Airmen are not allowed to marry until the completion of a period of two years
from the date of enlistment or until one year after the completion of the Basic Trade Training Course or which ever is later).
2. Candidates who do not possess the required educational quailifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 (a) and (b)
will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height and vision is below the
standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :-
a. Airmen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with effect from the date of
enlistment.
b. Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the selected trades accordingly. They will be required to perform
combat duties and any type of duty, day and night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or
abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement :- Selected candidates will be enlisted in the rank of Aircraftman (Second and Third Class) in the
Regular Air Force and shall be required to serve for 12 years in which five years will have to be served continuously and for a further 07 years
in the Regular Air Forece (Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen to extend for further  service on completion
of five years of service.
6. Official Language Requirements :- The selected candidates must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Govern-
ment of Sri Lanka.
7. Pay and Allowances :-  (a) Pay rate.– The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen shall be as follows :
Aircraftman .- Rs. 166,560 - 7 x 1,440 - 10 x 1,800 - Rs. 194,640 per annum.
Leading Aircraftman .- Rs. 170,880 - 4 x 1,440 - 11 x 1,800 - Rs. 196,440 per annum.
Corporal .- Rs. 175,200 - 1 x 1,440 - 13 x 1,800 - Rs. 200,040 per annum.
Sergeant .- Rs. 178,440 - 10 x 1,800 - 2 x 2,520 - 1 x 3,480 - Rs. 204,960 per annum.
Flight Sergeant .- Rs.182,040 - 8 x 1,800 - 2 x 2,520 - 3 x 3,480 - Rs. 211,920 per annum.
Warrant Officer .- Rs. 189,240 - 4 x 1,800 - 2 x 2,520 - 9 x 3,480 - Rs. 232,800 per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated pay scale applicable to airwomen. Increments in promotions will be based
in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay scale.
of year 1999/2000). Outstanding achievement in Music and Singing will be added
qualification.
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings
(without additional and optional subjects) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/
Tamil language. (If Mathematics/Science is /are included in the six subjects Math-
ematics II, Science II for an applicant of year 1999/2000).
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Exmination at not more than two sittings
(without additional and optional subjects) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/
Tamil and English languages. (If Mathematics/Science is/are included in the six
subjects Mathematics II, Science II for an applicant of year 1999/2000.)

<!-- page 7 -->

395 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
(b)  Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 1750.00 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance  Rs.600.00 per month
(3) Enhanced allowance Rs. 1,900 per month for those serving in operational  areas.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs.2400 per month for those serving in the Jaffna Peninsular (Rs. 80 will be paid for each working day).
(5) Incentive allowances - After completion of 05 years service (Rs.250.00 to Rs.850.00 per month.)
(6) Ration allowance .- Rs.5649.75 per month for living out Airmen. (Free messing for living - In Airmen).
(7) Accommodation .- Free for personnel living - in.
(8) Travelling .- Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (For Airmen, Wife and Children). One set of railway warrants per
month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living - in Airmen.
(9) Disturbance allowance .- When proceeding on duty outside permanent  station. (Rates vary with married/unmarried).
(10) Qualification pay .- For personnel  who have qualified in special courses or passess qualifications, which are of special value
to the Service. (up to maximam of Rs.637.50 per month)
(11) Good Conduct Badge pay .- Paid to personnel whose behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high standard.
(Rs.30.00 to Rs. 204.00 per month).
(12) Uniform Upkeep allowances Rs.170.00 per month.
(13) Re-engagement pay .- Personnel are entitled to Rs.300 per month during the  period of re-engagement.
(14) Medical facilities .- Provided  through Air Force expense for Airmen and their families.
(15) Free travel from residence to work in S. L. T. B. buses for living - out Airmen within a radius of 30 miles (48km).
(16) Following rent allowance are payable to married Airmen not in occupation of Government married quarters Rs.1200.00 -
Rs.3300.00 per month.
(17) Instructional Pay .- (Rs.425.00 to Rs.510.00 per month)
(18) Other allowance .- (separation and overseas etc) will be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(19) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended from time to time.
All airmen are contributors to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme Rate of contributions are as per
widows' and orphans’ pensions (Armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
8. Instructions to Applicants :-
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicants own handwriting in terms of the form specified below. All cages of the
application should be filled with much details as possible. Applications should be  sent by registered post addressed to “Chief
Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to reach there not later than 1200 noon on 24 May 2007. The
Envelope enclosing the application should be marked “Application for Airman” on the top left corner. Applications received
at Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda after closing date and time and not in accordance with  the requirements of this
notification and not in registered post will not be considered.
(b)  Candidates who are in Government  Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their applications
through their Heads of Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate to the effect that
the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interviews or when called
upon to do so :-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate issued for the purpose of the Education Code will not be accepted)
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications required.
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training and or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the Principal of the last school attended and the other
from the responsible person who has the know of the applicant for more than two years or from the present employer
(If employed)
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and cadeting etc.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
396
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when required to do so will not be considered.
(e) No original  documents or copies of documents should be attached to the applications form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
9. Interviews will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force Station Colombo Candidates considered suitable  for the interview will be required
to appear for an interview at their own expense before an  Air Force Recruiting Board. Such candidates will be informed
individually of the date and time.
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews, he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do not
have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of the accepted identification. However, no candidates will be
enlisted with out the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected according to merit order.
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt to
influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidates.
13. Any Statement  in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy
is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after the selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
W.D.R.M.J. G
OONETILEKE ,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
Application for Trade in the Sri Lanka Air Force
01. Full Name :———.
(According to National Identity Card)
02. National Identity Card Number :———.
03. Applied Trade :———.
04. Postal Address :———.
05. Permanent Address :———.
06. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :———.
07. District :———.
08. Electorate :———.
09. GS Division :———.
10. Telephone Number :———.
11. Date of Birth :———.
(Age as at 30th June 2007)  Years :———. Months :———. Days :———.
12. Married or Single :———.
13. Height : Feet :———. Inches :———.
14. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :———.
Year Index No Subjects Passed Grading

<!-- page 9 -->

397 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
15. G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
16. Any special qualifications for the post :———.
(E. g. Technical, Training and Experience etc.)
17. Details of special achievements in sports  :———.
18. Other achievements of note at school or with outside organizations :———.
19. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police give details :———.
20. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military Court? If so, give details :———.
21. Particulars of Testimonials :———.
Name Description Permanent Address
22. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :———.
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are selected as
Airmen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force Published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
..................................................
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
05-42
RECRUITMENT OF POLICE CONSTABLE FOR THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
AS per the Government Gazette Notification Number 1489 of 16.03.2007 in connection with the above Recruitment, the closing date of
applications has been extended by 03 months till 16.07.2007.
Inspector - General of Police.
05-99

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
398
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
NATIONAL  INSTITUTE  OF  SOCIAL  DEVELOPMENT
(Ministry of Social Services and Social Welfare)
Bachelor of Social Work Degree Programme 2007/2011
THE National Institute of Social Development entertains
applications for admission to the Bachelor of Social Work Degree
(BSW) - 2007 from suitably qualified persons. This is a four year
full time course, which will commence in July 2007 and will be
conducted in English Medium.
Eligibility for Admission :-
(1) A pass in G. C. E. (A/L) (2001-2006) Examinations) with
eligibility to enter a National University.
Applications :-
Self prepared application with following details - Full Name,
Address, Contact Numbers, Educational Qaulifications and the
Highest Qualification in English Language should be forwarded to
the Director General, National Institute of Social development, No.
191, Dharmapala Mawatha, Colombo 07.
As application processing charge a money order for Rs.100.00
encashable at the Cinnamon Garden Post Office written in favour of
the Director General of the NISD should be forwarded along your
application.
Closing Date of Applications :- 08.05.2007
Selection Criteria :-
All Applicants with requisite qualifications will be called for a
written admission test to be conducted in English Medium on the
General Knowledge on Social Services and Social Welfare. Sucessful
candidates at the examination will be called for and interview. The
final selection will be on the basis of merits.
Contact  No. :-  011-2678838
M. A. W
ARNAKULASOORIYA ,
Director General,
National Institute of Social Development.
National Institute of Social Development,
191, Dharmapala Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
05-96/1
NATIONAL  INSTITUTE  OF  SOCIAL  DEVELOPMENT
(MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES  AND  SOCIAL
WELFARE)
Bachelor of Social Work Degree Programme - 2006/2010
(Admission of Diploma Holders in Social Work into the
second year of BSW)
APPLICATIONS are called from Diploma holders in Social Work
for admission to the 2nd year of Bachelor of Social Work Degree
(BSW) programme. Candidates who apply should have high
proficiency in English to follow the course conducted in the English
medium and be able to continue studies full time for three years.
Self prepared application should include, the following information
Full Name :
Address :
Contact Numbers :
Educational qualifications (Year of the Diploma) :-
Highest qualification obtained in English :-
Only a very limited number of applications will be selected.
As application processing charge a money order for Rs.100.00
written in favour of the Director General of the National Institute of
Social Development encashable at the Cinnamon Garden post office
Colombo 07 should be received at the address given below on or
before 08.05.2007.
M. A. W
ARNAKULASOORIYA ,
Director General,
National Institute of Social Development.
National Institute of Social Development
191, Dharmapala Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
05-96/2

<!-- page 11 -->

399 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments
to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 5 1 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 3 1 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road,
Colombo 01, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.04
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2007
400
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road, Colombo 01.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2007
MAY 04.05.2007 Friday — 20.04.2007 Friday 12 noon
11.05.2007 Friday –– 27.04.2007 Friday 12 noon
18.05.2007 Friday –– 04.05.2007 Friday 12 noon
25.05.2007 Friday –– 11.05.2007 Friday 12 noon
JUNE 01.06.2007 Friday — 18.05.2007 Friday 12 noon
08.06.2007 Friday –– 25.05.2007 Friday 12 noon
15.06.2007 Friday –– 01.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
22.06.2007 Friday –– 08.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
29.06.2007 Friday –– 15.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
JULY 06.07.2007 Friday — 22.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
13.07.2007 Friday –– 29.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
20.07.2007 Friday –– 06.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
27.07.2007 Friday –– 13.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.