

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs.  5.50 Postage  : Rs. 4.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
—————————
[Certified on  20th  March , 2003]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of  March 21, 2003
TERMINATION   OF   EMPLOYMENT   OF
WORKMEN   (SPECIAL   PROVISIONS)
(AMENDMENT)    ACT,    No.   12   OF   2003
—————————
—————————

<!-- page 2 -->

Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special
Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2003
1
[Certified on 20th March, 2003]
L.D.—O. 53/2002.
  AN   ACT   TO   AMEND   THE   TERMINA TION   OF   EMPLOYMENT  OF
W ORKMEN  (SPECIAL  PROVISIONS ) ACT , NO . 45 OF  1971
Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Termination of
Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) (Amendment)
Act, No. 12  of 2003, and shall come into operation on such
date as the Minister may appoint by Order published in the
Gazette  (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”).
2. Section 2 of the Termination of Employment of
Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, No. 45 of 1971,
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) as
amended by Act, No. 51 of 1988, is hereby further amended
as follows :—
(1) in subsection (2) of that section  by the  substitution
for paragraph  (a) of that subsection, of the following
paragraph :—
“(a) such approval may be granted or refused on
application made in that behalf by such
employer, a copy of which application shall be
served on the workman concerned, who shall
be afforded an opportunity of being heard;”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection
(2) of that section, of the following new
subsection :—
“(2A) It shall be the duty of the  Commissioner
on receipt of an application under subsection (2), to
call upon the workman concerned within three days
of the receipt of such application, by the
Commissioner, to submit his response to such
application within seven days of the receipt of the same
by such workmen :
2—H 16862—5,600 (10/2002)
Amendment of
section 2 of Act
No. 45 of 1971.
Short title and
date of operation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special
Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2003
2
Provided however, that where the workman fails to
respond within the above period, the Commissioner
may grant a further period not exceeding seven days,
upon his being satisfied that such failure was due to
circumstances beyond the control of such workman.”;
3. Section 6A  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section.
4. Section 6B  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “within six months of the termination”, of the
words “within three months of the termination”.
5. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 6
B  and shall have effect as sections
6C  and section 6D  of the principal enactment :—
6C . Where the Commissioner orders any sum
of money to be paid to a workman under
subsection (2) of section 6 or section 6
A  of this
Act, the Magistrate’s Court having jurisdiction in
the area where such workman is or was employed
by his employer shall, if satisfied on the written
petition of such workman that payment of such
money has not been made within the time
specified in that behalf by the Commissioner,
make order that the amount of such money shall
be paid by such employer to such workman and
that such amount if not paid in compliance with
the order, be recovered in like manner as a fine
imposed by the Court, and the amount so
recovered shall be paid to such workman.
6
D . Any sum of money to be paid as
compensation to a workman on a decision or order
made by the Commissioner under this Act, shall
be computed in accordance with such formula as
shall be determined by the Commissioner, in
consultation with the Minister, by Order published
in the Gazette.”.
Amendment of
section 6A  of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 6B  of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
sections 6
C  and 6D
in the principal
enactment.
“Magistrate to
make order
where money
has not been
paid on an
order made
under section
6 or 6
A .
Computation
of any
compensation
payable.

<!-- page 4 -->

Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special
Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2003
3
6. Section 7 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No. 51 of 1988 is hereby further amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “order made under section 6”, of the
words “order made under subsection (2) of
section 6,”; and
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “order made under section 6”, of the
words “order made under subsection (2) of
section 6,”.
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special
Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2003
4
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.