

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1832
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1828
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"127 – 2019 cqks ui 07 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'06'07
No. 2,127  –  fRiday ,  JuNE 07, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th June, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th June, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1825 - B 81529- 5,403 (06/2019)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1826
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1827
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1828
Posts – vacant
mINISTRy  Of  mAhAWELI  DEvELOPmENT  AND  ENvIRONmENT
Recruitment to the Post of Legal Assistant in the Associate Officers Category of Service of the 
Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management - 2019
aPPLicatioNS are invited from eligible Candidates who have fulfilled qualifications mentioned in the paragraph No.02 as 
at 28.06.2019 which is the closing date of applications for recruitment to the post of Legal Assistant in the Associate Officers 
category of Service of the department of coast conservation and coastal Resource Management.
1. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made from the candidates who fulfill the required qualifications 
mentioned in the notification subject to the results of a suitability assessment interview.
1.1 the effective date of appointment in respect of this post will be decided by me, the director General of 
the department of coast conservation and coastal Resource Management as the appointing authority.
1.2 the suitability assessment interview will be conducted in accordance with the marking scheme approved 
by the Public Service Commission mentioned under paragraph No. 05 of this notification.
2. Qualifications :
 2.1  Educational Qualifications.– Should have obtained the degree of Bachelor of Laws (LLB) from a 
university recognized by the university Grants commission or have taken oaths as an attorney-at-Law at 
the Supreme court.
 2.2  experience.– Not relevant. However, marks will be alocated for experience at the  suitability assessment 
interview (it should be proved in writing).
 2.3 Physical Fitness.– Every candidate should have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri 
Lanka and to perform the duties of the post.
 2.4  Age :
  2.4.1.  Minimum age Limit: not less than 21 years
  2.4.2.  Maximum age Limit: not more than 35 years 
 2.5  Other :
 2.5.1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 2.5.2 Should be of excellent character.
 2.5.3  The qualifications required to recruit to this post as mentioned in 2.1 to 2.4 should be completed in 
all respects as at the date referred to in the Notice/Gazette calling for applications.
3.  Conditions of employment and Conditions of Service  :
3.1 This post is permanent and pensionable. (Subject to the policy decisions taken by the Government in future 
with respect to the pension scheme). 
3.2 Should be subject to a probation period of 03 years.
3.3 the selected candidates are required to serve in any part of the country as directed.
3.4 Language Proficiency
3.4.1  Official Language Proficiency :
 An officer who has been recruited in English Medium should acquire proficiency in Sinhala or Tamil 
language during the probation period. The required proficiency level will be to pass in Sinhala/Tamil 
language at the G.C.E (O/L) examination as a main subject (not as second language or optional 
subject) and to pass in the special competence examination conducted by the Department of Official 
Languages.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1829
3.4.2 Proficiency of other Official Languages:
Period in which the 
proficiency to be 
acquired
Proficiency level to be 
acquired
Language Proficiency 
Language medium in 
which recruitment to 
the service
Official language to which the proficiency 
to  be acquired 
During the first 
five years (05) after 
being recruited to the 
service
Language proficiency 
should be obtained in 
terms of the Public 
administration circular 
No. 07/2007 and other 
circulars incidental 
thereto.
Sinhala tamil
tamil Sinhala
English Other official language besides the official 
language to which proficiency has been 
obtained as per the sub paragraph 3.4.1.
4. Monthly Salary Scale.– in terms of Public administration circular No. 03/2016, this post is entitled to a monthly  
salary scale of Rs.31,490-10x445-11x660-10x730-5x750- Rs. 54,250/= relevant to MN 4-2016 category ( this salary will be 
paid according to the provisions of the  Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 and its ii schedule).
5. the below-mentioned marking scheme will be followed at the suitability assessment interview.
Note:- 
5.1 the recruitment to the post will be made from the eligible candidates based on the merit order at the 
suitability assessment interview and number of existing vacancies.
5.2  on instances when there is more than one candidate who have obtained equal marks, i, director General as 
the Appointing Authority will take an appropriate decision and it will be considered as the final decision.
5.3  the below mentioned marking scheme will be followed in at the suitability assessment interview.
The areas for which the marks will be awarded Maximum 
Marks
Minimum marks reckoned for 
selection
Additional Educational Qualifications* 20
   Not Relevant.
Additional Professional Qualifications* 15
Experience* 30
Language Proficiency* 15
Literacy in Information Technology * 15
Skills demonstrated at the interview 05
total 100
*Aforementioned qualifications should be proved in writing. 
6. Identity of the Candidates :
 6.1 candidates who have forwarded completed applications in every aspect will only be called for the 
suitability assessment interview.
 6.2 The originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should be submitted at the interview.
 6.3 One of the following means of identification papers should be submitted by the candidates in respect of 
their identity at the interview. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1830
6.3.1.1 National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons,
6.3.1.2 Valid Passport,
6.3.1.3 Valid driving License.
7. Method of Application :
7.1  The application form should be in accordance with the  specimen appended to this notification and should be 
prepared on an A4 size paper in a manner that items from 01-06 be on the first page, items from 07-09 be on the 
second page and items from 10-11 be on the third page and should be filled clearly by the candidate himself/
herself using own handwriting. applications which are not in conformity.
 With the specimen application form and those incomplete applications will be rejected without any notice. (It 
will be appropriate to keep a photocopy of the application).
7.2  the completed applications should reach the director General of the department of coast conservation and 
coastal Resource Management to the address of  director General department of coast conservation and 
coastal Resource Management, P.o. Box 566, New Secretariat, Maligawatta, colombo 10 by registered post 
or hand delivered on or before 28.06.2019  “Recruitment to the Post of Legal assistant of department of coast 
conservation and coastal Resources Management” should be marked on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application. any application received after the closing date will not be accepted. No complaint 
regarding lost or being delayed in the post will be entertained.  
7.3  The signature of the candidate in the application should be certified by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Justice of Peace/ Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/ Commissioned Officer of Tri Forces 
or any officer holding a permanent post in the public sector drawing a consolidated monthly salary of Rs. 47,615.
8. Furnishing False Particulars.– any of the particulars mentioned in the application by a candidate found to be false or 
erroneous, his/her candidature will be cancelled, if detected before the recruitment. if such false or erroneous information 
revealed after being appointed to the post, action will be taken to dismiss him/her subject to relevant legal procedure.
• In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
  B.K.
 Prabath Chandrakeerthi,
  director General,
  department of coast conservation and  coastal Resource Management.
on this 29th day of May, 2019
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN
Ministry of Mahaweli develoPMent and environMent
reCruitMent to the Post of legal assistant of the dePartMent of Coast Conserv ation and Coastal resourCe ManageMent 
01. Name with initials-: (Mr./Mrs./Miss)  …………………………………………..................................................................
   ............................................................................................................................................................................................
 in Sinhala -: 
 ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………....................
.............................................................................................................................................................................................
 in English -: ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………
….........................................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1831
 01.1 Names denoted by initials (in clear handwriting) 
 
in Sinhala :
……………………………………………………
………………….....................................................
in English : 
…….………………………………………………
………………….....................................................
02. National identity card No. : ............................................
03. date of Birth :-
   y ear :………… Month :…………….  date :……………
     
04.  Sex  : female – 1    Male - 0  
05. Permanent address (in clear handwriting) -:  
 …………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………
06. telephone No. -:   
 fixed Line : .....................................................................
Mobile : ...........................................................................
07. Educational Qualifications -:
07.1  Particulars of G.c.E (advanced Level) 
Examination :
  i. y ear and Month of the Examination- : .........
     .....................................................................
  ii. index Number -: ...........................................
  III. Subjects Passed -: .......................................... 
 Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
07.2 Qualifications relevant to the Post -: 
Relevant 
Qualification
Institution from 
which the said 
qualification 
was acquired
Validity 
Date
07.3  Other Qualifications-: ...........................................
08. Have you ever been convicted for any offense in a court 
of Law? yes/No 
08.1 if ‘yes’, state the particulars-: 
 .........................................................................................
.........................................................................................
09. two non-related Referees -: 
 1. Name :- 2.  Name :- 
       Post :-   Post :- 
       address :-  address :- 
       t elephone Number :-  t elephone Number :- 
10.  declaration by the applicant-:
 (a)  i declare that the information furnished by me in 
this application is true and accurate to the best of 
my knowledge.
 (b)  i am also aware that if this statement, i made herein 
is found to be false, i am liable to disqualify for 
recruitment and subject to dismissal form service if 
it is detected after the appointment.
 (c)  any information mentioned herein will not be 
changed subsequently.
 .................................,
 Signature of the candidate.
date:…………………….. 
11. attestation of the candidate’s Signature -: 
i hereby certify that the candidate named ……………… 
who furnished this application is known to me 
personally and he/she placed the signature before me on 
……………………....… in terms of the aforementioned 
paragraph No.10.
    
 ..............................................,
 Signature of the attester.
date:…………………….. 
Name of the attester:…………………….. 
Post:…………………….. 
address:…………………….. 
(to be certified by the Official Frank)
06–235
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                    

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1832
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
INSTITuTE  Of  TEChNOLOGy
uNIvERSITy  Of mORATuWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology 
Course 2019/2020
aPPLicatioNS are invited from eligible candidates for 
admission to the National diploma in technology, 3-years 
fulltime course conducted by the institute of technology, 
university of Moratuwa. the course will be conducted in 
the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa at 
Diyagama, homagama.
1. General.– the National diploma in technology 
course consists of two years of academic study and one year 
of industrial training and is conducted in English medium. 
The course is offered in the following fields of study : 
 (a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I) :
   (i) Marine Engineering technology.
   (ii) Nautical Studies and technology.
 (b) Other Fields of Courses (Set II) :
 (i) chemical Engineering technology.
 (ii) civil Engineering technology.
 (iii) Electrical Engineering technology.
 (iv) Electronic and telecommunication Engineering 
technology.
 (v) information technology.
 (vi) Mechanical Engineering technology.
 (vii) Polymer technology.
 (viii) textile and clothing technology.
2. eligibility : 
   2.1  Age : 
 (a) applicants should be below 24 years of age on 
31.12.2018.
 (b) applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2018 
will be given preference for admission to the 
Marine Engineering technology and Nautical 
Studies and technology courses. a special 
medical test and interview would also be 
conducted for selection of students to Marine 
Engineering and Nautical Studies courses. 
 (c) those who are fulltime registered students of 
any university under the uGc (except the open 
university of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational 
institute under the Ministry of Higher Education 
are not eligible to apply. 
2.2  Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) applicants should have obtained passes in 
any three (03) of the following subjects :–
 (i) Physics,
 (ii) chemistry,
 (iii) combined Mathematics,
 (iv) advanced Mathematics.
  at one and the same sitting of a G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2016 
or 2017 or 2018.
 (b) applicants who are applying for "Marine 
Engineering technology" and "Nautical 
Studies and technology" (Set i) courses 
should have obtained a credit Pass (c) 
for English Language at G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. 
3. Selection Criteria : 
 3.1 Admission to the Course : 
  the selection of students for admission will 
be based on the performance at G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination and the aptitude test to be conducted 
by the institute of technology, university of 
Moratuwa. 
  from those who pass the aptitude test, selections 
will be done in the merit order of G.c.E. (a/L) 
results, i.e. in the order of z-scores. in the selection, 
40% merit and 60% district quota will be applied.
 3.2  Field of Study :
  aptitude test marks together with the applicant’s 
order of preference for the field of study as 
indicated in the field preference will be considered 
in the allocation of the field of study.
4. Application Procedure :
 4.1  Application Form :
 (i) application should be made according to 
the Specimen form given in this Gazette 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1833
Notification. Specimen application will also 
be available in the following Web address.
http://www. itum.mrt.ac.lk
 (ii) applications should be forwarded under 
Registered Post marked “NDT Admission                 
2019/2020” on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope and addressed to the “assistant 
Registrar, academic and Student affairs 
division, institute of technology, university 
of Moratuwa, diyagama, Homagama.
 (iii) application should reach the assistant 
Registrar, institute of technology, university 
of Moratuwa, diyagama, on or before the 
closing date of the applications.
 (iv) a  self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope                      
(Rs. 45 worth), should be enclosed along 
with the application form.
 (v) No copies or originals of the certificates 
should be sent along with the application 
form. However, the content of the application 
has to be certified as indicated. (See cages 3 
& 5 in the form of application).
 4.2  Field Preference :
 (i) there are  two SETS of fields.
 (ii) applicants may apply to either Maritime 
Studies (SEt 1) or Other Fields (SEt  2) or 
Both sets of fields. The preference must be 
indicated if candidate applies to both sets of 
fields.
 (iii) SEt 1 - insert order of preference as 1 for 
first preference and 2 for Second preference. 
this should be completed only by the 
candidates who are applying for Maritime 
Studies.
 (iv) SEt 2 - insert order of preference as 
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 “1” for the “most preferred”, 
“2” for the next, and so on “8” for the least 
preferred. 
5.  (i)  Application Fee.– a receipt of payment in favour 
of “Institute of Technology, University of 
Moratuwa, A/C No. 0000308280 of bank of 
Ceylon, homagama branch” to the value of               
Rs. 500.00 (Rupees five Hundred) application fee 
for set i or set ii and Rs. 700.00 (Rupees Seven 
Hundred) application fee for both set i and set ii, 
obtained only from any branch of the bank of 
Ceylon should accompany each application. this 
application fee is non-refundable.
 (ii)  Closing Date.– the closing date of applications is 
08.07.2019.
6. Aptitude Test and English Language Proficiency Test.– 
applicants, short-listed according to the G. c. E. (a./L.) 
performance in Merit and district Quota will be called for 
an aptitude test and English Language Proficiency test that 
will be conducted by the institute of technology, university 
of Moratuwa.
Study materials for English Language proficiency test 
will be available in the ituM web site http://www.itum.mrt.
ac.lk
7. Registration :
 (i) candidates selected for admission will be required 
to produce the originals of the following certificates 
on the date of registration :–
 * G.C.E. (A/L) Certificate,
 * Certificate indicating G. C. E. (A./L.) 
Z-Score,
 * School Leaving Certificate,
 * Birth Certificate,
 * Affidavit in support of any changes in name 
appearing in different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
 (i) A candidate once registered for the National 
Diploma in Technology Course will not be 
eligible for admission to any other course in this 
Institute or in any other University in Sri Lanka 
(except Open University of Sri Lanka) or in any 
other higher Educational Institute under the 
ministry of higher Education during the tenure 
of the course.
 (ii) A student who has already registered in this 
Institute or any other University in Sri Lanka 
(except Open University of Sri Lanka) or in any 
other higher Educational Institute is not be 
eligible for applying. 
 (iii) All the particulars in the application should 
be true and accurate. If the particulars in the 
application are found to be false or inaccurate, 
the applicant should agree for any relevant 
decision taken by the Institute. 
 competent authority.
 institute of technology,
 university of Moratuwa.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1834
 
 aPPLicatioN  foR  adMiSSioN  to  tHE  NatioNaL  diPLoMa    For office use only
 iN  tEcHNoLoGy  couRSE 
  application No.
 institute of teChnology university of Moratuwa 
  district
 aCadeMiC year - 2019/2020 
application for (Please     )
  1. Maritime fields  - Set 1 
  2. other fields - Set 2
   [applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2) or both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
1.   Personal details :    (Please use bLOCk CAPITALS)
  Name in full :
  
      (Leave one blank cage between names)
  Name with initials :
      (Leave one blank cage between names)
 Nationality    Sex Male/female
  
 age (years)    (Months) date of Birth date Month y ear
 as at 31st dec. 2018    
 National id Number
2. contact details :
  a ddress (Residence):
  
      (Leave one blank cage between different segments of the address) 
  t elephone :  Mobile
  E-mail (if available) :
 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1835
 3. Results of G. c. E. (advanced Level) Examination :
Subjects & Details of examination Grades & Details obtained at the
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
year
Physics
chemistry
combined Mathematics
advanced Mathematics
index Number
Z-Score . . .
Please indicate if your Z Score is Minus 
(M)
Results of the year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether 2016 or 2017 or 2018)                                                                                           

 4. Medium :
  
Medium in which you wish to sit the aptitude test Sinhala English tamil
      
 5. School(s) attended from year 11 to year 13 :
  
Year
 
Name &  Address of 
School District
 Period of Attendance
From To
Year M D Year M D
11
12
13 1st attempt
2nd attempt
3rd attempt
 6. Certification of Results and Schools attended :
  It is compulsory to certify the results under No. 3 and details under No. 5 in the application by the 
School Principal for the School Candidates, and by a Justice of Peace for External Candidates.
  i certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in the cage No. 03 and No. 05 are true and accurate 
according to the original certificates.
  Name of the Principal/Justice of the Peace : Rev./dr./Mr./Mrs. ................................................................
  
  Official Seal
                                                                                                           ......................................  
                                    Signature. 
date :...............................

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1836
 7. field Prefe rence :
SEt 1 - insert order of preference as 1 for first preference and 2 for Second preference. this should be completed 
only by the candidates who have applied for Maritime Studies.
SEt 2 - insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. 8. ‘1’ for the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on ‘8’ 
for the last preferred.
 Set 1 Set 2
 Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
 Marine Engineering  technology chemical Engineering technology
 Nautical Studies and technology civil Engineering  technology
  
  Electrical Engineering technology
 
  Electronic and telecommunication     
 State Priority, if applied for both sets –  
  Engineering technology
 SEt 1
  information technology
 SEt 2
  Mechanical Engineering technology
 
  Polymer technology  
  textile & clothing technology
are you registered as a fulltime student in any other university under the uGc (other than 
open  university) or any other Higher Educational institution under the Ministry of Higher 
Education ? (delete whatever is inapplicable)
yes No.
  APPLICANT’S  DECLArATION :
 1. i certify that all the particulars given by me in this application are true and accurate. i am aware that if the 
particulars given by me in this application are found to be false or inaccurate, i will be discontinued from the course 
at any time.
 2. i declare that i am not a fulltime registered student at any university (except open university of Sri Lanka) or any 
Higher Educational institution under the Ministry of Higher Education.
 3. i am aware that if i am found to be registered in another university or any other Higher Educational institution 
under the Minister of Higher Education at the time of sitting for the aptitute test for the National diploma in 
technology course, i will not be selected for the course. 
 4. in the event of my being selected for admission after the test, i shall abide by  Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations and 
the Rules of the institute of technology, university of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1837
 5. i have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt obtained from Bank of ceylon, drawn in favour of “institute of 
technology, university of Moratuwa - account No. 0000308280 of Bank of ceylon, Homagama Branch”.
 6. i also enclose a self addr essed stamped envelope (Rs. 45/= worth) in size 9" x 4".
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––.
Paste your cash deposit/cash transfer original Slip here.
06–123
–––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of LANDS & PARLIAmENTARy REfORmS
Survey Department of Sri Lanka
REcRuitMENt to PoStS of SuRVEy fiELd aSSiStaNt iN PRiMaRy SEMi SKiLLEd SERVicE catEGoRy 
WHicH REMaiN VacaNt iN SuRVEy dEPaRtMENt of SRi LaNKa
tHE Gazette notification No. 2,125 and dated 24.05.2019 is revised and published to mention the Number of Posts to be 
recruited to the Post of Survey field assistant of Survey department of Sri Lanka as 290 and to extend the closing date of 
application as 19.06.2019.
1. Applications are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit to the post of primary semi skilled                         
(PL 02 -2016) survey assistant which remains vacant in Survey department.
1.1                  Post  Grade  Number of Vacancies 
 i. Survey  field assistant Grade iii   290
1.2 Nature of duties of posts :
Post Main Functions
Survey field 
assistant
•	 Giving assistance to draw the sketch relevant to the survey
•	 Preparation of survey lines as possible as to observe old boundaries,using Survey field books and 
plans. 
•	 Placing and opening of relevant land marks and pickets in area relevant to the Survey.
•	 Giving Assistance to Survey duties relevant to finding out and placing of bench marks relevant to the 
Survey. 
•	 Giving Assistance to maintenance relevant to the Safety and storing of instruments, use in the field.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1838
Post Main Functions
•	 Setting out of G.P.S. instruments in survey points in field For surveys which are done, using of satellite 
technology including of theodolite, leveling instruments and new electronic total stations. 
•	 Giving assistance to all activities of placing of geo control points require for air photography.
•	 keeping of  targets properly that  require  for determination of location and level of all stations which 
made in surveys and giving assistance to collect data.
•	 Setting out of landmarks and bench marks using correct data in survey,
•	 Setting out of landmarks relevant to blocking out of lands which basically done using the data in 
survey field books and tracing entries.
•	 attending to any duty assigned by Surveyor General or his representative as applicable to surveying.
•	 Supervision of works of other survey field assistants is assigned for those who hold the post of 
overseers in survey field assistant grade, in addition to the above duties.   
2. the number of appointments and the date of 
appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. 
The appointing authority has power to fill all or any number 
of vacancies
3. Salary.– in terms of public administration circular 
No. : 03/2016 and dated 25.02.2016 monthly salary scale 
applicable for the iii, ii, i and special grade of Survey field 
assistants’ Service is Rs. 25,250 -10 x 270 -10 x 300 - 10 
x 330 - 12 x 350 – Rs. 38,450 and  the  effective date of 
said salary will be 01.01.2020. Salaries will be paid from 
the effective date of the appointment in terms of provision in 
Schedule ii of above circular.
4. this post is permanent. the Pension entitled to 
the officers  appointed to the grade III of Survey Field 
assistants’ Service, by this examination will be determined 
in terms of the policy decision, on pension scheme taken by 
the government in future. This appointment is subject to 03 
years probation period and selected candidates are prepared 
to serve in any part of the country and subject to general 
conditions applicable to appointment to the public service 
specified at the beginning of this Gazette notification.
5. Qualifications :
 5.1  Educational qualifications :
 (a)  Should have passed the G.c.E. ordinary Level 
Examination in six (06) subjects with at least 
two credits passes in not more than two sittings
 5.2  Professional qualifications :
  Should have obtained a skill at least in level two 
of National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) 
as determined by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission as appropriate for the 
post of survey field assistant.
 5.3  Minimum skills :
 (a)  Giving assistance to identify survey fields.
 (b)  attending to Safety and maintenance of survey 
instruments and equipments.
 5.4  Physical fitness :
  all candidates should have physically and 
mentally fit adequate to serve in any part of Sri 
Lanka and to carry out duties in the post.
 5.5  Other :
 i. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii. the candidate should be of excellent moral 
character
 III. All the necessary qualifications for recruitment 
to the post should have been fulfilled in all 
respect as at the closing date of calling for 
application.
 5.6 Age :
 (a) the minimum age should be 18 years and 
maximum age should be 45 years as at the 
closing date of applicable.
  (the maximum age limit is not applicable for 
those who hold a permanent post already in the 
public service)
6. Furnishing false information.– In filling these 
vacancies, if a candidate is found not to have necessary 
qualifications, his/her candidature can be cancelled. If any 
of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be 
false within his /her knowledge or if he/she has willfully 
suppressed by material fact he/she will be liable to dismissal 
from the public service.
7. Method of recruitment.– By a written examination and 
an interview to as certain qualifications. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1839
examination Procedure.– the examination will consists 
of written test consisting two subjects. This examination will 
be held in Sinhala tamil and English mediums. the medium 
applied for will not be allowed to change subsequently.
Maximum 
marks
obtainable
Minimum 
percentage of 
marks required 
For a pass
Time
1. General 
Knowledge
2. intelligence
100
100
40%
40%
02 hours
01 hour 
and 15 
minutes.
7.1 Syllabus  :
 (i) General knowledge.– including the knowledge 
of environment of the candidate lives, political, 
social, cultural, religious, and economical 
environment in Sri lanka, scientific and 
technological development, internationally 
important general facts are expected by this 
paper. 
 (ii) Intelligence Test.– a  question paper made in 
multiple choice method, consists of questions 
to judge the rationality,  ability of thought and 
ability to take decision, of the candidate.
8. Interview :
 8.1. after an interview held by an interview board 
appointed by Surveyor General only to ascertain 
whether the qualifications have been fulfilled 
by the candidates, recruitment will be made 
as survey field assistant  Grade III in order of   
merits  obtained by candidates in the written 
examination.
  the number of candidates decided by the 
Surveyor General as per the vacancies remain 
will be called for the interview for as certaining 
of qualifications. 
  One month field and theoretical training will 
be given to those who recruited as survey field 
assistants by the training institute of Survey 
department.
  
9. Preparation and submission of applications :
 (a) the application should be prepared by the 
applicant himself on a paper size 21×29(a4) 
using both sides as per the specimen application 
appearing at the end of this notice. item No. 01 to 
06 should be on page 01, No. 07 – 09.2 on page 
02, No. 10 – 14 on page 03, and No. 15 – 16.2 
should be on page 04.
 (b) candidates who are already employed in public 
service should forward their applications through 
their heads of the departments before the closing 
date of application.
 (c) applications should be in the language in which 
the candidates in eligible to sit the examination. 
 (d) applications which are not complying with 
the specimen form, examination fees have 
not been paid before the prescribed date, of 
improper filling, will be rejected without any 
notice. candidates should bear consequences 
of improper filling of applications. It would be 
useful to retain a photocopy of the application. 
It is responsibility of the candidate to find out 
whether the completed application complies 
with the application specified in the notice. If not, 
application will be rejected.
 (e) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
complaints for any loss of applications in the 
post will not be considered.
 9.1  Only those who have fulfilled qualifications 
prescribed in chapter 5 of Gazette  notification  as 
at the closing date of application should apply. 
Surveyor General will allow candidates who have 
paid specified examination fees and submitted 
application on or before 19.06.2019 to sit the 
competitive examination. issuing of admission 
card shall not be deemed as the applicant possesses 
qualifications to the post or to sit the examination. 
 9.2  the envelope containing the application should be 
clearly marked “Recruitment to posts of primary 
semi skilled - Survey  field assistant” on the top 
left hand corner.
 9.3  the signature of the applicant in the application 
should be certified by a principal of a government 
school/ justice of the peace/ commissioner of 
Oaths/ Attorney – at – law/ Commissioned officer 
in the army / an officer in police service hold a 
Gazetted post or an officer who hold a permanent 
post in public service in tertiary or senior level 
in terms of the grading of public service circular            
No. 3/2016.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1840
10. examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 800/=. 
this fee should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor 
General office in No. 150, Kirula road, Colombo 05 or at 
any of District Survey office or at institute of Surveying and 
Mapping – diyathalawa. the receipt should be pasted in 
the relevant cage in the application form. (it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with applicant). the fee is 
not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and 
cheques will not be accepted. applications without cash 
receipts will be rejected.
11. Submission of application.– completed application 
should be sent by registered post to reach to the following 
address on or before 19.06.2019
Senior Superintendent of Survey ( Examination),
Surveyor General's Office,
colombo 05.
12.Appearing for the examination.– Every candidate 
should hand over their admission card to the Supervisor 
of the Examination centre. a candidate who fails to hand 
over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. the candidate should sit the examination at 
the examination hall assigned to him.
13. Identity of candidate.– candidates should prove 
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor for each paper they sit. any of the following 
documents will be accepted for their purpose.
 i. the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of persons.
 ii. a  valid postal identity card issued by the post 
Master General.
 iii. a valid passport.
14. Any matter not specified here, will be determined by 
the Surveyor General.
15. it is informed that re submission of applications by 
the candidates who have submitted applications on due date 
in terms of the Gazette Notification No. 2,215 and dated 
24.05.2019 will not be required. 
   S. M. P. P. 
sangakkara, 
 Surveyor General (Acting).
Surveyor General's Office,
colombo 05,
04th June, 2019.
sPeCiMen aPPliCation forM
reCruitMent to PriMary seMi skilled Post (Pl 02 – 2016)
whiCh reMain v aCant in survey dePartMent-survey field 
assistant
  
    For office use only
01. index No. :
   
02. Medium of examination
 (Sinhala – S,    tamil – t,    English – E)
 (indicate the letter/code in given cages)
03. Name with initials (Mr/Mrs/Miss) :
   in Sinhala  :–––––––––––––.
  in English  :–––––––––––––.
 03.1 Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
    in Sinhala   :–––––––––––––.
    in English   :–––––––––––––.
04. National identity card No. :
05. date of birth :
       year :                   Month :           date :                         
 05.1 age as at the closing date of application :–––––––.
06. Gender : (Male – M  /  female – f) 
07. Permanent address (in legible letters) :
  in Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
  in English :–––––––––––––.
 07.1  administrative district to which address belongs 
(See the schedule 1) :
  district No. :         
  Name of the district :
 07.2 date from which the applicant is resident in the 
district :–––––––––––––.
08. telephone No. : Permanent :–––––––––––––. 
     Mobile :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1841
09. Educational Qualifications :
 09.1 details of G.c.E. ordinary level examination
         1st attempt:
   (a) year and month of the examination :–––––––––.
   (b) index No. :–––––––––.
   (c) Subjects passed :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8
 09.2 details of G.c.E. ordinary level examination :
           2nd attempt
   (d) year and month of the examination :–––––––––.
   (e) index No. :–––––––––.
   (f) Subjects passed :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8
10. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
 (Mention the NVQ qualifications that have been 
obtained)
11. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any 
offence :
   y es    No 
 12.1 if yes give details :–––––––––––––.
13. details of Receipt which the examination fees paid
   I. Office at which the payment made :–––––––––.
   ii. Receipt No. and date :–––––––––.
   iii. amount paid :–––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
14. Certificate of the candidate :
 (a) i declare that the particulars furnished by me in this 
application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge.
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration made by me is 
found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit 
for the appointment and if it is found after the 
appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from the 
service.
 (c) the cash receipt obtained for the payment of 
………….. has been pasted in relevant cage.
 (d) further, i declare that i agree to comply with the 
rules and regulations laid down by the Surveyor  
General in respect of the examination.
 (e) i shall not subsequently change any of the particulars 
mention here.
            ––––––––––––––,
      Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
15. Certification of signature of the Applicant :
 i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss………….............. who is 
submitting the application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his /her signature under the section 13, in 
my presence.
   ––––––––––––––,
   Signature of attester.
date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
16. Recommendation of the Head of the department (only 
for the applicant who are in public / provincial public 
service).
 16.1 According to the personal file of the officer, during 
the five years immediately  prior to the closing 
date of application.
  Work, Behavior, attendance satisfactory / 
unsatisfactory
  all salary increments have been earned /have not 
been earned
   Has not been /  has been subject to any disciplinary 
action

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1842
16.2  If selected to the post applied for, this officer can 
be / cannot be released from the post he holds at 
present.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of  the department
 official stamp.
date :–––––––––––––.
      
SChEDuLE  01
this Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts 
to which address belongs on No.7.1 of the application.
 Town/District Name  Town/ District No.
 i. colombo 01
 ii. Gampaha 02
 iii. Kaluthara 03
 iv. Kandy 04
 v. Matale 05
 vi. Nuwara Eliya 06
 vii. Galle 07
 viii. Matara 08
 ix. Hambanthota 09
 x. Kurunagala 10
 xi. Puttalam 11
 xii. anuradapura 12
 xiii. Polonnaruwa 13
 xiv. Badulla 14
 xv. Monaragala 15
 xvi. Rathnapura 16
 xvii. Kegalle 17
 xviii. ampara 18
 xix. Batticaloa 19
 xx. t rincomalee 20
 xxi. Jaffna 21
 xxii. Vavuniya 22
06–585
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of mAhAWELI  DEvELOPmENT 
AND ENvIRONmENT 
Department of Forest Conservation 
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoSt of foRESt fiELd 
aSSiStaNt of tHE dEPaRtMENt of foRESt 
coNSERVatioN - 2019
tHiS refers to the Gazette Notification Number 2118 dated 
05.04.2019 and 2123 dated 10.05.2019 concerning the 
above Examination. 
2. accordingly, closing date of inviting applications 
for the above competitive Examination is extended up to 
14.06.2019.
 W. a. c. 
weragoda, 
 conservator General of forests.
forest department, 
Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla, 
30th day of May, 2019.
06–354
 Town/District Name  Town/ District No.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1843
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SUbSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.06.2019
1844
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2019
 JuNE 07.06.2019 friday — 24.05.2019 friday 12 noon
  14.06.2019 friday –– 31.05.2019 friday 12 noon
  21.06.2019 friday –– 07.06.2019 friday 12 noon
  28.06.2019 friday –– 14.06.2019 friday 12 noon
 JuL y 05.07.2019 friday — 21.06.2019 friday 12 noon
  12.07.2019 friday –– 28.06.2019 friday 12 noon
  19.07.2019 friday –– 05.07.2019 friday 12 noon
  26.07.2019 friday –– 12.07.2019 friday 12 noon
 AuGuST 02.08.2019 friday — 19.07.2019 friday 12 noon
  09.08.2019 friday –– 26.07.2019 friday 12 noon
  16.08.2019 friday –– 02.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  23.08.2019 friday –– 09.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  30.08.2019 friday –– 16.08.2019 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2019.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.