

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1657$5 - 2010 cqks 07 jeks i÷od - 2010'06'07
No. 1657/5  -  MONDAY,   JUNE  07,  2010
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A - G12940— 345 (2010/06) 1A
My No.  : C1/1260.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement  entered into between Hatton National Bank PLC,  479, T. B.  Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10
of the one part and the Hatton National  Bank  Ltd. Union, 24/16A, Sri Sangabo Road, Kawdana of the other part on
06th November, 2009 regarding the Junior Executives  is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial
Disputes Act Chapter 131, Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
W. J. L. U. WIJAYAWEERA,
Commissioner General
 of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
26th April, 2010.
Collective  Agreement No.:  21 of  2010
This Collective Agreement made this 06th day of November, 2009 between Hatton National Bank PLC, a Bank
duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at No. 479, T. B.  Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 (hereinafter
referred to as “the Bank”).

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
2A
OF THE ONE PART
and
Hatton National  Bank  Ltd. Officers Union, (HNB Officers’ Union), a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and
having its registered Office at  24/16A, Sri Sangabo Road, Kawdana, Dehiwala  (hereinafter referred to as “the HNB
Officer’s Union”)
OF  THE  OTHER  PART
Whereas the HNB Officers’ Union submitted proposals for a revision of salaries and other benefits in respect
of their members among the employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement and subsequent to negotiations
between the Bank and the HNB Officer’s Union, agreement has now been reached between the said two parties for the
purpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the HNB Officers’ Union
and the employees and maintaining an efficient and productive working environment, the matters so agreed upon are
set out hereunder.
1. Parties to be Covered  and Bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind Hatton National Bank PLC (“the Bank”) the Hatton National Bank Ltd Officers’
Union (“the HNB Officers’ Union”) and members of the HNB Officers’ Union employed by the Bank in the category of Junior
Executives (hereinafter referred to as the “employees”) for whom salary ranges have been prescribed in this Agreement.
2. Date of Operation and Duration
This Agreement shall come into force on the 1st April, 2009 and shall continue until either party terminates
it by written notice in terms of this Industrial Disputes Act, but no such notice shall be given before the 31st March, 2012.
The HNB Officers’ Union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised Collective Agreement
at any time on or after 1st July, 2011.
3.  Matters Covered and Bound
(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters
raised by the HNB Officers’ Union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties
before the conclusion of this Agreement and the HNB Officers’ Union agrees that it will not during the continuance
in force of this Agreement raise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the
parties preceding this Agreement except to the extent agreed.
(b) The HNB Officers’ Union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement
seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment or benefits presently
applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than by mutual agreement with the Bank.
4. Consolidated Salary.
(a) With effect from 1st April, 2009, each employee covered and bound by this Agreement shall be paid salaries in
accordance with the salary ranges prescribed hereunder.
Junior Executive Grade 1 – Rs. 41,000/- to 80,000
Junior Executive Grade 2 – Rs. 44,000/- to 94,000
Junior Executive Grade 3 – Rs. 50,000/- to 100,000

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
3A
(b) Annual increments will be based on performance in accordance with the performance appraisal scheme of the
Bank subject to a minimum increment of a sum equal to 2% p.a. of an employee’s salary subject to the condition
that those who are rated as “Poor” will not receive any increment.
(c) The scale of rating under the performance appraisal scheme to determine levels of performance of
employees for the grant of annual increments will be as given below.
Outstanding : 1 – 1.9 - Achievement of not less than 90%
Good : 2 – 2.9 - Achievement between 80% and 90%
Satisfactory : 3 – 3.9 - Achievement  between 60% and 80%
Average : 4 – 4.9 - Achievement between 50% and 60%
Poor : 5 - Below 50%
5. Conversion to Revised Salaries with effect from 1st April, 2009.
For the placement of an employee in the  alary range   as set out at clause (4) above with effect from  1st April, 2009,
the following provisions shall apply.
1. A sum equal to 18% of the basic salary payable to an employee as at March, 2009 shall be added to the basic
salary paid to each employee in the month of April, 2009.
6. Incremental Date
The annual incremental date will be 1st April.
7. Fuel Allowance.
Employees will be entitled to receive a conveyance/fuel allowance in accordance with the amounts stated below.
Junior Executive Grade 1 — a sum equal to 55 litres of petrol per month
Junior Executive Grade 2 & 3 — a sum equal to 80 litres of petrol per month
8. Holiday Allowance
(a) The Bank shall pay a lump sum allowance in accordance with the amount stated below.
Junior Executive Grade 1 — Rs. 25,000/- p.a.
Junior Executive Grade  3 — Rs. 27,500/- p.a.
(b) In the case of an employee promoted during the course of a year, the payment for a period of service less than
a completed calendar year will be computed proportionately at the rate of 1/12th of such entitlement in respect
of each completed month of service.
9. Special Payments.
(a) Tea & Dinner Allowance
Employees will be paid for work outside normal working hours on a normal working days as follows :
1 Hour – Rs. 150/-
Up to  1 1/2 hours – Rs. 225/-
Up to 2 hours – Rs. 300/-
Up to 2 1/2 hours – Rs. 375/-
Up to 3 hours – Rs.  450/-
Up to 3 1/2 hours – Rs.  525/-
4 hours & above would be at the rate of Rs. 150/- for one full hour.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
4A
(b) Working on Holidays
Where an employee works on a holiday he will be paid a sum of Rs. 250/- for each completed hour so worked.
(c) Disturbance Allowance
(i) Employees reporting for work prior to 7.00 a.m. will be paid a sum of Rs. 700/- in respect of such day ;
(ii) Employees required to perform work in relation to ATM breakdowns during non working hours including
weekends and other holidays will also be entitled to a payment of Rs. 700/- in respect of each such instance.
(d) Pawning
Employees engaged in duties relating to the pawning of articles in the Bank will receive an allowance
of Rs. 125/- per day subject to a maximum allowance of Rs. 2,000/- per mensem.
10. Bonus
Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay to
every employee in service as at the date of payment covered by this settlement, a bonus of three months basic salary as
drawn by such employee for the month of December in respect of one complete year of service, meaning January
to December, and proportionately for service less than one year at the rate of one twelfth of such entitlement in respect
of each complete month of service.
11. Provident Fund
(a) Rate of Contribution
The rate of contribution to the Provident fund by the Bank shall be :
Bank’s contribution - 12% (twelve percent) of salary
Employee’s contribution - 8% (eight per cent) of salary
Provident fund contribution shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof subject to the Rules
of the Provident Fund.
(b) Interest on Provident fund contributions held by Banks.
Where Provident Fund monies are invested in the Bank, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid
on 12 months Fixed Deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000 published by the N. S. B. or HNB whichever is higher
prevailing as at  the  1st January for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailing on the 1st July for the
second half of the year on the net Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.
(c) Deficiency in Bank’ s Contribution to Provident Fund to an Employee Not Entitled to a Pension.
Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitle him to a
pension or payment in lieu of pension, as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to the difference
between the Bank’s contribution made to the Fund during his period of service and the Employer’s minimum  rate
of contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the Employees Provident fund Act and its amendments
from time to time as a contribution to the fund by the Employer on behalf of such employee. Such deficiency will
be the difference between the following minimum rates of contribution under the Act and 10% of basic salary
actually contributed by the Bank up to 31st March 1992.
From 01.01.71 to 31.12.80 - 9% of gross salary.
From 1.1.81 onwards - 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12.70 the Employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary) which
was less than 10% of  basic salary and therefore no deficiency arises.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
5A
12. Death Gratuity.
On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the Bank, the Bank
will make a compassionate payment of two month’s basic salary for each year of completed service, subject to a minimum
of Nine months basic salary, to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may be determined by the
Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the case of the death of an employee who is
not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a confirmed employee provided that
in the case of an employee who has not been confirmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity
payable will be calculated as in the case of a confirmed employee.
Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents
shall be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of Compensation or under
any laws in force at the time on  account of Employees Compensation or under any other law or an Award of Court, whichever,
is higher. Provided further, that in the case of an employee whose death occurred in consequence, the pre-acceptance
of Death Gratuity as provided herein, shall not restrict the right of such dependents in subsequently claiming any
balance compensation due to them under any written law.
13. Gratuity on Resignation/Termination Prior to  Retirement.
An employee shall, upon resignation/termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances which
do not entitle him to the terminal benefits referred to at the aforementioned Clauses be entitled to a gratuity computed
in terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983), which shall be paid within 30 days of the cessation of employment.
The salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referred to at Clause 5.
Completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding
absence/leave without pay, but subject to the provisions of the Payment  of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 20 thereof.
14. Promotions
Grade I
(a) Any employee promoted to the Grade of Junior Executive from the Grade of Banking Assistant will be
entitled to an addition of Rs. 1,000/- to his last drawn gross monthly salary as a Banking Assistant and
he shall thereafter be place within the salary range for Junior Executives as provided for at clause (5) above.
His salary and other entitlements will thereafter be in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
(b) On promotion, an employee will serve a period of probation of 06 months. This period shall be extendable
by a period of 3 months. An employee who does not reach the required level for confirmation will be reverted
to the post from which he was promoted.
Grade II
(a) A Junior Executive with 3 years’ service in Grade I, with a good all round record of service and has successfully
completed at least Part 1 of the examination conducted by the Institute of Bankers, will be promoted to Grade 2 in
the Junior Executive Grade.
(b)  A Junior Executive in Grade 1 who is not eligible for promotion to Grade 2 in terms of (a) above, will be considered
for promotion to Grade 2 subject to completion of 5 years’ service in Grade I and a good all round record of
service.
(c) A Junior Executive in Grade 1 shall on promotion to Grade 2 receive an increase of Rs. 2,000/- in his monthly basis
salary with effect from the date he is so promoted.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
6A
Grade III
Following principles shall apply to the promotion of an employee from Grade 2 to Grade 3 :
(a) An employee who is eligible under following criteria (b) will be considered for promotion to Grade 3 subject to an
application being made by the employee.
(b) An employee eligible to make such application will be—
(i) A Junior Executive with 3 years service in Grade 2, with a  good all round record of service and
had successfully completed at least Part 1 of the examination conducted by the Institute of Bankers.
(ii) A Junior Exective in Grade 2 who is not eligible for promotion to Grade 3 in terms of (i) above,
will be considered for promotion to Grade 2 subject to completion of 5 year service in Grade 2 and
a  good all round record of service.
(iii) A Junior Executive in Grade 2 shall on  promotion to Grade 3 receive an increase of Rs. 3,000/- in his
monthly basic salary with effect from the date he is so promoted.
(c) An employee will be considered for promotion from the first date of the month succeeding the month in
which the application is received by the Human Resources Division.
15. Annual Leave, Medical and Casual Leave
(a) Annual Leave
(i) Entitlement
in respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) during which an employee
has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following year 21 working days paid leave.
He shall avail himself of  at least 7 days out of the 21 days on successive days and shall in respect of each year
avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 21 working days.
(ii) Availment
The availment of all annual leave shall be prior authorization of the Bank upon the employee’s application,
giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
(iii) Accumulation
Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively for the following purposes ;
(a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank ;
(b) For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill ;
(c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given ;
(d) For marriage of the employee ;
(e) Prolonged illness of the employee ;
(f) On account of the death of a family member provided that the employee has exhausted his current year’s
leave ;
(g) For purpose of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
Provided that in the case of (b) to (d) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the Management.
Family member for purposes of (b) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.
Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted up to a maximum of seven (7) days per year and
provided further that such total accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of ninety (90) days.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
7A
(b) Medical Leave
(i) Entitlement
An employee shall be entitled to not less than Twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other holidays
in any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.
(ii) Availment
The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not supported
by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(a) where a such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays, or
(b) where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a Medical
Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days in any one year.
(iii) Accumulation
An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as  prescribed above shall be entitled to
avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject to the
following provisions :
(a) in no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed ninety
(90) days, and
(b) the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalization, an
similar circumstances supported by a certificate from a Registered medical practitioner.
(c) where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such as an
infectious disease or prolonged hospitalization an employer may permit him to set off any further absence
on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the leave taken for such
earlier prolonged illness.
(iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and/or take
any action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported by a
Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances.
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bone fides of the application and/or reason
for absence of an employee, or
(b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any weekly
or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or
reason for absence of the employee.
(c) Casual Leave
An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employment.
All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for such absence is justified
to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not have been foreseen by
such employee.
16. Retirement.
(a) The age of retirement shall be 55 years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its employees, and
on reaching the age of 55, or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso facto  retire and cease to
be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such employee any notice of such
retirement.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
8A
(b) An employee may also be retired and be eligible for retirement benefits if he is not less than 50 years and has
10 or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee, his HNB Officers’ Union
and the employer that he should be given such concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party
to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.
(c) An employee who is found to be unable to continue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/disability,
as certified by the Bank/s Doctor/Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent
employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual continuous
service (excluding absence/leave without pay) is entitled to a pension or any other superannuation scheme
introduced by the Bank in Lieu of Pension. Provided, However, that where an employee is entitled to compensation
by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or an Award of Court, such employee shall only be entitled
to a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both. Provided further that in the case of an
employee whose premature retirement occured in concequence of an accident which entitled him to compensation
the pre-acceptance  of pension or a benefit under any other superannuation  scheme introduced by the Bank in
lieu of such pension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any
balance compensation under any written law.
17. Suspension.
(a) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to the provisions
of sub-clauses (b) and (c) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six months and full pay
thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
(b) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud of  misappropriation,
the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is  not concluded
within six months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary (salary plus cost of living
allowance) during his suspension beyond the said six months period, Provided that if the delay beyond six months
is due to the employee’s own conduct or due  to the employee being in custody or remand thereby making it
impossible for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned will not be payable.
(c) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concluding
the inquiry within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as where the employee
makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in Police custody or where the matter is
under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will not receive full pay
in these circumstances.
18. Disciplinary Procedure.
Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, in the case of oral
warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall apply :
(a) Irrespective or whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a show cause
letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause letter shall
give the employee not less than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation in writing to the
charges preferred.
(b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the
Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable the
employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation and where
such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of times as is considered
necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show cause
and the Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the employee and

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
9A
if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall pay to such
employee his salary and entitlement in respect of the period of such suspension.
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank
is not satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to  sub-clause ( k)(iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into
the charges against such employee.
(e)  The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the
date of  receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not   possible to do
so for reasons beyond the Bank control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason
of unforeseen circumstances.
(f) The Bank will permit a member of the HNB Officers’ Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the
accused employee or an office bearer of the HNB Officers’ Union  irrespective of grade  ( in which case the
Bank reserves to itself the right to prevent the person carrying on the defence for unacceptable conduct)
or a Executive Committee Member of the HNB Officers’ Union employed in the Bank to defend the accused
employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained a legal qualification.
The defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absence from work on this account.  The Bank
will further allow another member of the HNB Officers’ Union to be present at the Inquiry as an Observer
without loss of salary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Bank in writing
the name of the defending employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the
commencement of the inquiry. The defending employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused
employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The Inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a
defending employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw there from and the defending
employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with such   requirement. The absence of a defending employee
or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry   for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry,
not the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to
participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the Inquiry Officer may ask him.
(g) The HNB Officers’ Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the
Observer and the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been
certified and a copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as
a true copy of such proceedings before the Inquiring  Officer. In respect of any document marked at an inquiry,
the Bank will release copies of such documents to the HNB Officers’ Union with the proceedings, provided
however, that the Bank may refuse to release any such documents provided such documents in its opinion are of
a confidential nature.
(h) The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution
as well.
(i) within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in writing,
of the findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days except
for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such employee shall not
be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee shall be drawn in
respect of such charges.
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any of the
following circumstances :
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to show
cause in which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such employee
had no cause to show.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
10A
(ii) Where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
(iii) Where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the HNB Officers’ Union
right to request the employer thereafter to hold an inquiry in which even the fact that the inquiry
did not commence within Twenty One (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall
not be material or relevant.
(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding
on the Bank and the employee and the HNB Officers’ Union, unless the employee or the HNB Officers’
Union shall within  three (3) months from the date on which the Bank had notified such employee of the
findings or punishment, raises a dispute in respect of such findings and/or punishment.
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that :-
(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall take
effect as from the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine ; provided further that
the Bank shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to the
employee in respect of such period of suspension, if any such payment has been made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed  forthwith
and shall be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the
right of the Bank to impose such other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole or
part of the period of suspension pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.
(n) The observance by the Bank of Sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not  held in
view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other
authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the
employee.
(o) The above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries that commenced after the date of signing of this
Agreement.
19. Medical Scheme
  I.  Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-Hospitalization Expenses.
The Bank will  reimburse an employee up to a maximum of Rs. 25,000 in respect of medical expenditure incurred
by him on his own behalf, on behalf of his spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 18 and the parents
of the employee in respect of routine non-hospitalisation/non-surgical and  specialist treatment, and subject to the following:
(a) All medical claims shall be supported by valid and relevant prescriptions, bills and receipts.
(b) Prescriptions of Doctor’s bills are from Registered Medical Practitioner.
(c) The unutilized portion of the allocation for the year could be utilized during a period of three years subject to
valid bills being submitted as aforesaid.
(ii) The Bank will further reimburse a sum upto a maximum of Rs. 7,500/- on a non-cumulative basis for Medical Reports
in respect of a Annual Health Checkup only for the employees over 40 years of age subject to the following.
(a) The entitlement could be utilized only once in 12 months.
(b) The medical tests specified in the Annexure I must be carried out concurrently to  be entitled for reimbursement.
No part reimbursements will be made.
(c) The Claim Form accompanying the bills should be forwarded to the Centralized Payroll Division, Head Office for
payment.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
11A
 (iii) Special Non-Hospitalization and Non-Surgical Expenditure
The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum as stipulated below
for specific purposes as mentioned hereinafter on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family members.
(a) Spectacles - Rs. 12,500/-
(b) Dentures & Nerve Fillings - Rs. 8,000/-
(c) Hearing Aids - Rs. 8,000/-
Subjects to valid documentation as in the case of (i) above and subject to the provisions that no claim is made
in relation to any particular item more than once in three years and in the case of spectacles it must be
supported by a prescription from a Medical Eye Specialist. In case of Spectacles an employee is also entitled
to replace the lenses only within the overall limit of Rs. 12,500/- Provided further however, in the case of
employees over the age of 50 years, a claim for spectacles may be allowed once in two years.
 (iv) Surgical and Hospitalization Expenditure.
Employees will  be reimbursed on account of surgical and hospitalization (whether Government or Private) expenses
incurred on behalf of the employee, his spouse and unmarried legitimate children under 18 years of age, subject to
the production of valid documentation covering every claim or expenditure, up to the following limits per annum :
(a) Hospital or Nursing Room Charges :
Day Limit - Standard A/C Room charge per day
Government Hospital Allowance Rs. 1.000/- per day
(b) Emergency Treatment Travel
Expenses (maximum) Rs. 2,000
* The rate is Rs. 30/- per kilometer
(c) Overall Limit for any one event Rs. 120,000/-
(d) Overall Limit for any one year Rs. 160,000/-
Provided however that in the case of a recurrent illness, i.e. of the same kind, the Bank will make payment
on this account only once in a period of three years.
The First Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.
(v) Maternity Grant
(a) an employee who is married will be entitled to a grant of Rs. 12,000/- in respect  of two births of children.
If both spouses are employed in the Bank only one shall be entitled to this grant.
(b) In the case of reimbursement under surgical and hospitalization expenses, for maternity, an employee shall not
be entitled to this grant in terms of (i) above.
20. Trade Union Action
   ( a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement.
The HNB Officers’ Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with
the Bank that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form
of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action
against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
12A
(b) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement
The HNB Officers’ Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree
with the Bank that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or
other form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of
collective action against the Bank in respect  of any dispute that may arise on any matter not related to this
Agreement until :—
(i) The HNB Officers’ Union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably
with the Bank.
(ii) HNB Officers’ Union has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the
Bank and  the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.
(iii) in the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the HNB Officers’ Union has
to give notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that  there has been no satisfactory
settlement of the dispute and that is wishes to resort to trade Union action. Such notice shall be given
to the Bank. the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and to the Commissioner General of Labour.
21. HNB Officers’ Union Check-off
During the  continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the HNB Officers’ Union has not less than forty
(40) percent membership among the employees covered by this agreement the Bank shall continue to grant check-off,
provided, however, that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the HNB
Officers’ Union violating any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
22. Implementation and interpretation of this Agreement
(a) Where either the HNB Officers’ Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective Agreement
is being Implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technology change
such matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting of two representatives
from the Bank and two representatives from the HNB Officers’ Union. The Bank or the HNB Officers’ Union may
request that a matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee by communication addressed to the Employers’
Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
(b) Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 3
of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1950.
23. Consequences of Termination Agreement.
On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits facilities and concessions enjoyed by the
HNB Officers’ Union and/or its members shall ipso facto cease.
24. Definitions
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings :
Bank Hatton National  Bank PLC
Employee an employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Employer Hatton National Bank PLC
HNB Officers’ Union Hatton National Bank Ltd Officers Union
Dispute A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the
Industrial dispute  Act and shall include any dispute arising between the
Bank and the HNB Officers’ Union.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
13A
THE  FIRST  SCHEDULE
(1) (a) The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified in Clause 19(iv) of
the Agreement. It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll  members of his family immediately on becoming
eligible to be included in this Scheme.
No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.
(2) Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least one night stay in a hospital.
(3) The Bank must be notified promptly, and in any event lot later than on the first business day following admission to
hospital.
(4) The Bank will be entitled to take out  Insurance Policies covering reimbursement under this Scheme and the employee
shall be required to make declarations (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal forms) and submit
documentation required by Bank/Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable the Bank to obtain
reimbursement from the Insurance Companies. The Bank will advise by internal circular issued from time to time the
documentary requirements and time limits within which documents should be submitted. Where an employee does
not comply, he will not be entitled to benefits under this Scheme.
(5) Employee shall uphold the principle of uberrima fide when making declarations and submitting claims under
this scheme and any deviation would disqualify the employee from received any benefit under this scheme.
In addition, the employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set-out in this Agreement.
(6) (a) The Bank will circulate by internal circular published from time to time a list of hospitals/nursing homes, expenses
incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the Scheme. Additions and/of deletions to this list will
also be made by internal circular.
(b) If for reasons of geographical location any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of the
Institutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of
amendments to the list referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use a
named Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall consider such application on a case by case basis and, where
deemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensation, provided however, that the decision of the Bank on this
matter shall be final and conclusive.
(7) Exclusions
The Scheme shall not cover benefits/ expenses :
(a) Arising from an injury sustained or a sickness contracted outside Sri Lanka or for treatment outside Sri Lanka.
(b) Occasioned by or happening through.
(i) The participation by the employee or other eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign
Enemy, Hostilities (whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, Mutiny
or Usurped Power, Military, Popular Rising or while serving as a member of any Defence, Police, security
Force, Home Guard etc.,
(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, Venereal Disease, Insanity and Illnesses resulting from Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome.
(iii) Normal child or pregnancy subject to clause 19(iv).  Provided that if an employee has been employed
for a continuous period of twelve months, the Bank will pay the medical expenses incurred for any
abnormality of maternity which is in excess of what a normal child birth would have cost. The responsibility
for furnishing the Bank with the required proof of the extra cost involved, such as a letter from the
Doctor/Hospital, will be on the employee who makes the claim.
(iv) Earthquake, V olcanic Eruption of Tidal Wave.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
14A
(c) Incurred whilst traveling in an aircraft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard
type of civil aircraft operated by a recognized Airlines on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type
of civil aircraft having two or more engines operated by a  recognized Air Charter Company  or owned by a
Commercial or Industrial firm and piloted by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.
(d) In respect of Eye Tests or Dental Treatment.
(e) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.
(8) The benefits under this Scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “any one year” in Clause 19(iv) of the
Agreement shall be deemed to be the period 1st January, to 31st December. In the case of employees who join
during the course of a year the overall limit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st December will be
pro-rated to the number of full months of service up to 31st December.
(9) In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the
entitlement of either or both years, subject, however, to the event limit specified in Clause 19(iv) of the Agreement.
Annexure 1
HEALTH  CHECKUP  FOR  STAFF  MEMBERS  OVER  40  YEARS  OF  AGE  CLAIM  FORM
EPF No. Branch/Department..............................................
Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss.).................................................................................................................................
Age .................................. Category........................................... Amount................................ .........
(Please tick “X”)
Haemogram
Haemoglobin
P.C.V .
R.B.C.
MCHC MCV MCH
Total W. B. C.
E.S.R.
Peripheral Smear
Biochemical Parameters
Fasting & PP Blood Sugar
Urea
Creatinine
Uric Acid
Lipid Profile
Total Cholesterol
HDL Cholesterol
LDL Cholesterol
Triglycerides
Total Cholesterol/HDL Ratio

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
15A
Liver Function Tests
Total Protein
Albumin
Globulin
SGPT
Alkaline Phosphatase
GGTP
SGOT
Serum Bilirubin
General Tests
VDRL
Blood Grouping and Rh typing
complete Urine Analysis
Stools Test
Pap Smear for women/P.S.A. for men
E.C.G.
Chest X-Ray
Ultrasonogram of the Abdomen
Cardiac Stress Analysis (CSA/TMT)
Pulmonary Function Test (PFT)
I certify that this claim and the bills submitted therewith are genuine in respect of expenditure incurred by me.
I also declare that I have not made a claim under the Health Checkup for the past 12 months.
............................................... ......................................
Signature of Claimant Date
In witness hereof the said parties have set their hands hereunto on this 6th day of November, 2009 at Colombo.
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
Hatton National Bank  PLC Hatton National Bank  Ltd. Officers’ Union.
Name : J. R. P. M. Paiva Name : A. R. Uduwela
Designation : Deputy General Manager, Designation : President.
Human Resources & Administration.
Name : R. L. P. Peiris D. I. V . Senadhira
Director General, General  Secretary.
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon Hatton National Bank  Ltd. Officers’ Union
Witness :
U. P. P. Gooneratne, T. M. P. Peiris
Senior Manager - Industrial Relations, Executive Committee Member.
Hatton National Bank PLC. Hatton National Bank  Ltd. Officers’ Union.
G. F. Thomas,
Executive Committee Member,
Hatton National Bank  Ltd. Officers’ Union.
We hereby certify that this is the Collective Agreement signed on behalf of the Hatton National Bank PLC
with the Bank’s Officers’ Union.
Indrani Goonesekera (Mrs.) R. Theagarajah.
DGM (Legal) Board Secretary. Managing Director.
06-477

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
16A
My No.  : C1/111.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
Collective Agreement  entered into between Bogala Graphite Lanka Limited, No. 20, Tickell Road, Colombo 08 of the
one part and  the Inter Company Employees’ Union, No. 158/18, E. D. Dabare Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on
19th January, 2010 is hereby published in terms of  Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act Chapter 131of the
Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
W. J. L. U. W
IJAYAWEERA,
Commissioner General
 of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
17th May, 2010.
Memorandum of Understanding No. 31 of 2010
BOGALA  GRAPHITE  LANKA  LIMITED  COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT  -  2010
This Collective Agreement is  made  on this 19th day of January, 2010 pursuant to the Industrial Dispute Act,
between Bogala Graphite Lanka Limited, a Company duly registered in Sri Lanka having its registered office at No. 20, Tickell
road, Colombo 08 (hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”) of the one part and Inter Company Employees Union, being a
Trade Union duly registered and having its registered office at No. 158/18, E. D. Dabare Mawatha, Colombo 05, (hereinafter
referred to as the “Union”) of the other part.
Witnesseth and hereby agreed between the parties as follows :
1. Title :
This Agreement will be called and known as Bogala Graphite Lanka Limited “Collective Agreement (CA) 2010”.
2. Parties Covered and Bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and members of the Union who are Employed
by the Employer as permanent Employees on the date of signing of this Agreement, and permanent Employees who
shall be recruited after the said date, except the Executive and Managerial Staff.
3. Date of  Operation and Duration
This Agreement will come into effect from 1st January, 2010 and will cover a minimum period of 1year.
The Agreement will thereafter continue to be in force and will not end till a new Collective Agreement called and
known as “Collective Agreement 2011 - 2013” will be signed, or till terminated in writing by either party with one month’s
notice to the other and according to the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.
4. General Terms and Conditions.
The Terms and Conditions of this Agreement shall as from the date hereafter and during the continuance in force of
this Agreement be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment between the Employer and the Employees covered
and bound by this Agreement.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
17A
5. Income Structure
With effect from the date of operation, the employer shall secure for each employee covered and bound by this
Agreement the following Income Structure :
– Basic salary in accordance with the approved Salary Scale of the Employer and with the
Sri Lankan laws, payable monthly.
– Production Incentive (formerly known in Bogala as “PVD”), calculated as shown in the paragraph 7,
payable monthly.
–  Annual Bonus based on productivity targets achievement, calculated as shown in the paragraph 8,
payable yearly in two installments in April and in December.
– Other statutory payments.
6. Salary Sacle
From the date on which the Agreement is signed (January 2010 the following Salary Scale will be implemented :
Manual and Operative Grade
   Grade Start Annual Increment Nos. Increments Maximum
SP 8500 300 16 13300
I 7950 285 15 12225
II 7380 265 14 11090
III 7000 240 10 9400
IV 6700 215 9 8635
V 6485 190 7 7815
VI 6195 170 4 6875
Supervisory Grades
     Grade Start Annual Increment Nos. Increments Maximum
I 8500 320 18 14260
II 7815 285 19 13230
III 7700 250 20 12700
Trainee 6195 170 3 6705
Clerical and Allied Grades
Grade Start Annual Increment Nos. Increments Maximum
SP 8500 300 16 13300
I 7950 285 15 12225
II 7380 265 13 10825
III 7000 240 9 9160
IV 6700 215 5 7775
The Employer will add to each employee’s basic salary a sum of Rs. 3,000 starting from January 2011. From
the same moment the Employer will deduct Rs. 3,000 from the component “A” of the production Incentive
(See paragraph 7).

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
18A
7. Production Incentive Scheme (formerly known as “PVD”)
With effect from the date of operation, the monthly Production Incentive (P1) will be calculated according to the
following formula :
P1 = (A+B)*(C/D) where
A =   Attendance allow. + Interim allow. + UG allow. + CA allow.
Attendance allowance   =   Rs. 500
Interim allowance  = Rs. 400 (considered only for the underground Division)
Underground allowance  =  Rs. 440 for Manual and Operatives in Underground Division only
                                     =  Rs. 380 for Supervisory in Underground Division Only
CA Allowance   =   as agreed between the Employer and the Union and shown below
Period Monthly Cummulated
allowances Rs. Rs.
Months 01 - 12 3,000 3,000
B = rate agreed with the Union shown in the table below (in Rs.)
Manual and Operative Grades
SP I II III IV V VI
Underground 1000 950 900 850 800 750 700
Processing 950 900 850 800 750 700 650
Plant Engineering 850 800 750 700 650 600 550
Transport 800 750 700 650 600 550 500
Estate and Admin. 700 650 600 550 500 450 400
Supervisory Grades
I II III Trainee
1150 1100 1050 700
Clerical and Allied Grades
SP I II III IV
900 850 800 750 700
C  =  Calculated monthly individual bonus points in Rs. (see calculation in paragraph 8)
D =   Base point for bonus calculation (see calculation in paragraph 8).

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
19A
After the Implementation of the above scheme, all allowances mentioned in the formula for calculation of
“A” will  cease their existence as separate allowances.
In the event an employee does not qualify, in a particular month, for the payment of the bonus due
to non achievement of the target, the calculated individual bonus will be considered in the formula above.
8. Annual Bonus based on productivity
With effect from the date of operation, the Employer and the Union agree upon the following calculation
of the Annual Bonus (AB) based on productivity achievements :
AB = Sum of the 12 months individuals bonus points (C) in Rs.
 For one month, the calculation is shown below.
C =  (AP/TP)*D
Where
AP  =  Achieved Productivity by individuals or group of individuals established monthly
 TP  =  Targeted  Productivity established monthly by the Management for individuals or group of individuals
D  =  Base point established as follows :  D 2010 = (“OP2009”/“OP2008") *D 2009
Where
OP 2006 - 2009 = Overall Productivity in each of the years 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 calculated with the formula :
OP = ROM/MS
Where
ROM = Yearly underground graphite production in (Kg)
MS  =  Total number of man shifts performed by all employees in the year
The Annual Bonus points are calculated each month for each employee and if qualified, the equivalent in Rupee
value will be paid, each year as follows :
In April —  December (previous year) to March
In December —  April to November
To qualify for yearly payment, an individual’s or a group’s monthly ratio (AP/TP) shall be equal or greater than 1.
1C Point - Rs. 1
9. Welfare Facilities
With effect from the date of operations, the following welfare facilities will be altered or provided as follows :
1. The scholarship granted for the University Education to the qualified Children of the employees will be increased
from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 2,500.
2. “When, and if passing, the Grade 5 exam, a scholarship of Rs. 1,000 only will be granted to  the qualified children
of the employees.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
20A
3. A gift up to the value of Rs. 500 will be given to each employee who will be retiring after reaching
the age of 55/60.
4. The Employer will introduce the price control for the sales of the food products in the Workers’ Canteen to
assure a correlation with the prices practiced outside the Company. The Company’s Estate products will be
sold through the Canteen or given to the Employees for ceremonies.
5. In the event of a death of an Employee, the funeral expenses paid by the  Employer to an immediate
family member of the Employee, will be increase from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 17,000. In addition a payment of
Rs. 25,000 is provided from  the Company’s insurance coverage.
6. The Distress Loan will be granted within a period of one month after receiving the required details, in accordance
with the currently established regulations. The minimum amount of the loan will be Rs. 100,000 provided
that the calculated payback installment doesn’t exceed 40% from the basic salary.
7. On two consecutive nonworking days of the year 2010, the Union will organize a trip for all employees whom
wish to join and the Employer will pay for transport, food and accommodation to the tune of Rs. 250,000.
However, if the total cost of the trip is exceeding the above amount a reasonable portion of the additional
cost, determined by negotiation at the time, will be born by the Employer.
All the other welfare facilities agreed upon in the “CA 2002 - 2005” and not altered above will be continued as agreed
previously.
10. Safety Equipment
The Employer shall  supply to each employee the Safety Equipment established as necessary in accordance with the
Company regulations and the Union agrees to convince the employees to wear it, failing which the Employer is entitled to take
disciplinary action against such employees.
11. Working Hours and Arrangements
Depending on exigencies of business, the Employer is entitled, in consultation with the Union, to change the current
working hours of the Company.
The Union agrees that when all the preparative action is completed, the Underground Employees will work
continuously at their working places. In this regard, the Employer will provide a free light meal at the beginning of the shift to
be taken and consumed at the working place. In addition a main meal will be provided to each employee on surface, at the
Company’s Canteen, at the end of the shift.
The Union also agrees to comply with the Main Shifts riding schedule introduced by the Employer.
The details regarding the above are given in the Annex 1.
12. Unauthorized Absence
The following schedule will apply with regard to unauthorized absence. The prevailing disciplinary action for
unauthorized absence will be applicable on a pro rata basis.
01 to 12 months - 10 Days
13. Medical Certificates on Grounds of Sickness/Injuries.
The Union agrees that only Government Hospitals Medical Certificates are to be considered to justify
absence due to sickness or injuries.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
21A
14. Transfers
It is a condition of employment that every employee is liable to be transferred from one Mine of the Employer
to another or from one Department/Section to another. If the Management is of the opinion that training is necessary,
such training will be given to the employees. A transfer will not affect the salary of the employee. However, the allowances,
incentives or bonus payments will be according to the schemes applicable to that particular Department/Section to which
the employee has been transferred.
Without any deductions to the salary an Underground employee will be entitled only on medical grounds
to be transferred to the Surface for a maximum period of two weeks. If the period exceeds two weeks the salary will be
subject to a reduction according to the present scheme that is in operation. This is applicable only for personal sickness
covered by relevant medical certificates.
15. Half  Days’ Leave.
The present scheme applicable under the Collective Agreement 2002 - 2005 will be continued.
16. Disciplinary Action
The employees shall be covered and bound by the current disciplinary Procedure of the Company.
17. Trade Union Action
The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree
with the Employer that during the continuance in force of the Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of
Trade Union Action against the Employer in respect of any dispute covered by this Agreement.
18. Interpretation
If any dispute arises regarding the interpretation of this Agreement, parties agree to refer the matter to the
Commissioner - General of Labour and abide by the ruling given by him.
In witness hereof parties have hereunto set their hands on this 19th day of January, 2010 at Colombo.
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
Bogala Graphite Lanka Limited Inter Company Employees’ Union,
Name : Amila Jayasinghe Name :  Piyadasa Gamage,
Designation :  CEO Designation : Director Secretary,
Witness : Witness :
Name : Nimal De Silva Name :  S. A. J. Sankapala,
Designation :  Financial Controller Designation : Branch President.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
22A
TIME  SCHEDULE  OF  UNDERGROUND  WORKING  ACTIVITIES  FOR  COLLECTIVE   AGREEMENT   - 2010
1st Shift 2nd Shift
Serial Description of Activities Start End Duration Start End Duraction
No. Hrs. Min. Hrs. Min.
1 Arrival of the Bus – 6.45 a.m. – – 2.15 p-.m. –
2 Card punching/Partaking of 6.45 a.m 7.15 a.m. 00.30 2.15 p.m. 2.45 p.m. 00.30
breakfast/Lunch
3 Getting ready fo the work 7.15 a.m. 7.30 a.m. 00.15 2.45 p.m. 3.00 p.m. 00.15
Handing tag, Muster, Dressing etc.,)
4 Alfred Shaft riding (First Section) 7.30 a.m. 7.45 a.m. 00.15 3.00 p.m. 3.15 p.m. 00.15
5 5th Pit riding (Down) 7.45 a.m. 8.18 a.m. 00.33 3.15. p.m. 3.48 p.m. 0033
(2 times riding  x 16.5 minutes)
6 Walking from shaft Collar of each 8.18 a.m. 8.25 a.m. 00.07 3.48 p.m. 3.55 p.m. 00.07
level to working place
7 Time period for working 8.25 a.m. 1.20 p.m. 4.55 3.55 p.m. 8.50 p.m. 04.55
8 Coming back to Shaft Collar from 1.20 p.m. 1.25 p.m. 00.05 8.50 p.m. 8.55 p.m. 00.05
working place
9 Blasting 1.25 p.m. 1.30 p.m. 00.05 8.55 p.m. 9.00 p.m. 00.05
10 5th Pit riding (Up) 1.30 p.m. 1.51 p.m. 00.21 9.00 p.m. 9.21 p.m. 00.21
(1 1/2 times riding x 14 minutes)
11 Alfred Shaft riding (Second Section) 1.51 p.m. 2.00 p.m. 00.09 9.21 p.m. 9.30 p.m. 00.09
12 Bathing/Dressing and Other activities 2.00 p.m. 2.20 p.m. 00.20 9.30 p.m. 09.50 p.m. 00.20
13 Partaking of meal 2.20 p.m. 2.45 p.m. 00.25 9.50 p.m. 10.15 p.m. 00.25
14 Card punching 2.45 p.m. 3.05 p.m. 00.20 10.15 p.m. 10.35 p.m. 00.20
15 Departure of the bus 3.05 p.m. – – 10.35 p.m. – –

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2010
23A
RIDING  SCHEDULE  OF  05th  PIT  LIFT  CAGE   FOR  COLLECTIVE   AGREEMENT   - 2010
1st Shift 2nd Shift
Start End No. of  Time Start End
ridings  for the
Time Level Time Level Riding Time Level Time Level
Transportation of Workers/ 7.45a.m 72 FM 8.18 a.m. 72 FM 2 16.5 3.15 p.m. 72 FM 3.48 p.m. 72 FM
Supervisors to the U/G and
Transportation of trolleys
Supply of materials/Services 8.18 a.m. 72 FM 9.00 a.m. 72 FM 2 21 3.48 p.m. 72 FM 4.30 p.m. 72 FM
and transportation of trolleys
Transportation of trolleys and 9.00 a.m. 72 FM 10.31 a.m.275 FM 5 1/2 16.5 4.30 p.m. 72 FM 6.01 p.m. 275 FM
Water bunkers
Inter-level transporation/riding 10.31 a.m.275 FM 10.39 a.m.72 FM 1/ 2 16.5 6.01 p.m. 275 FM 6.09 p.m. 72 FM
of half-day leave takers and
miners with other physical
requirements
Transportation of trolleys 10.39 a.m. 72 FM 12.18 p.m.72 FM 6 16.5 6.09 p.m. 72 FM 7.48 p.m. 72 FM
Transportation of
Explosives/ Inter- 12.18 p.m.72 FM 12.34 p.m.72 FM 1 16.5 7.48 p.m. 72 FM 8.04 p.m. 72 FM
level transportation and
riding of miners with
other physical requirements
Transportation of trolleys 12.34 p.m.72 FM 12.43 p.m.275 FM 1/2 16.5 8.04 p.m. 72 FM 8.13 p.m. 275 FM
Inter-level riding of 12.43 p.m.275 FM 12.59 p.m.275 FM 1 16.5 8.13 p.m. 275 FM 8.29 p.m. 275 FM
explosive takers /tansport-
ation of trolleys
Riding of explosive man 12.59 p.m.275 FM 1.07 p.m. 72 FM 1/2 16.5 8.29 p.m. 275 FM 8.37 p.m. 72 FM
and workers for cutting SH
rails and timber
Transport of trolleys 1.07 p.m. 72 FM 1.16 p.m.275 FM 1/2 16.5 8.37 p.m. 72 FM 8.46 p.m. 275 FM
Riding of tool carriers 1.16 p.m. 275 FM 1.23 p.m. 72 FM 1/2 14 8.46 p.m. 275FM 8.53 p.m. 72 FM
Transportation of empty 1.23 p.m. 72 FM 1.30 p.m.275 FM 1/2 14 8.53 p.m. 72 FM 9.00 P.M. 72 FM
trolleys/lowering of lift
cage for men riding up
Workers/supervisors riding 1.30 p.m. 275 FM 1.51 p.m. 72 FM 1 1/2 14 9.00 p.m. 275 FM 9.21 p.m. 72 FM
up and transportation of
empty trolleys
06-478
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA