

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1959
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1954
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"983 – 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 02 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'09'02
No. 1,983 –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 02, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd  september, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th  september, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
21st June, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1951
Note.— Lak Janasetha foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 10, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1952
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1953
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1954
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars marriages, births and Deaths in Tamil medium
 
JaffNa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or 
before 03rd october, 2016.
 E. m. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
15th august, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Jaffna sandilipay Post of Registrar of births and deaths the district secretary/the
    of manipay division and marriages  a dditional Registrar General,  
   (General) of sandilipay divisional  district secretariat, Jaffna. 
   secretary's division.
09–117
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
mataRa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1955
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said muslim marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
03rd october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
15th august, 2016. 
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
    Applications are called Applications should be sent
matara Weligama Post of Registrar of muslim marriages district secretary/additional
    of New street area of Weligam   Registrar General, district   
   Koralaya division  secretariat, matara. 
08–109
––––––––––––––––
Notice of change
mINISTRy Of SPORTS
Institute of Sports medicine
i, do hereby inform that the notice appeared (No. 05) 
in Government Gazette on 05th august, 2016 calling 
applications to fill the Vacancy in the post of Nutritionist in 
the institute of sports medicine is amended and the closing 
date of application is extended till 13.09.2016. accordingly, 
applications should be sent by registered post to reach 
the secretary, ministry of sports, Philip Gunawardena 
mawatha, colombo 07 on or before 13.09.2016. 
Age limit.– age as at the date of application shall not be 
less than 21 years and not more than 35 years. this 
age limit does not apply in the case of those who are 
already holding permanent and pensionable posts, in 
the Public service. 
 dr. d. m. R. b. 
dissanayaka, 
 secretary, 
 ministry of sports. 
ministry of sports, 
No. 09, Philip Gunawardana mawatha, 
colombo 07.
09–182/2

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1956
Notice of change
mINISTRy Of SPORTS
Institute of Sports medicine
i do hereby inform that the notice (No. 06) appeared 
in Government Gazette on 05th august 2016 
calling applications to fill the vacancy in the Post of 
Physiotherapist/Pharmacist/medical Laboratory technical 
specialist under segment of supplementary vaocational 
service for physiology in the institute of sports medicine is 
amended and the closing date of application is extended till 
13.09.2016. accordingly, applications should be sent by 
Registered Post to reach the secretary, ministry of sports, 
Philip Gunawardena mawatha, colombo 07 on or before 
13.09.2016. 
Age limit.– age as at the date of application shall not be 
less than 18 years and not more than 35 years. this 
age limit does not apply in the case of those who are 
already holding permanent and pensionable posts, in 
the Public service. 
 dr. d. m. R. b. 
dissanayaka, 
 secretary, 
 ministry of sports. 
ministry of sports, 
No. 09, Philip Gunawardana mawatha, 
colombo 07.
09–182/1
––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  INTERNAL  AffAIRS  
WAyAbA DEVELOPmENT AND CuLTuRAL 
AffAIRS 
Calling Applications for Vacancies in the 
Department of National museums
aPPLicatioNs are invited from sri Lankan applicants 
for the following posts vacant in the department of 
National museums. 
1. three (03) vacancies in the Post of driver- Grade iii 
of Primary (skilled) service category.
 1.1 Educational Qualifications.- should have passed 
06 subjects with at least 02 credit passes including 
sinhala/tamil language in not more than two 
sittings at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination. 
 1.2 Professional Qualifications :
  should have obtained a driving license issued by 
the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic for 
driving private/taxi and station vegan less than 
unladen weight of 24 hundredweight (should 
have obtained at least b class driving license 
according to the new driving license or c and c1 
class driving license before 3 years to the date of 
recruitment).
 1.1  should have sound knowledge in rules of the 
Highway code. 
 1.3 experience.- should have 3 year work experience 
as a driver. (Should be proved by the certificates).
 1.4 Physical Requirements :
  minimum height - 5 feet
  Should have better vision and physical fitness to 
serve day and night. it should be proved through 
a formal certificate issued by a Government 
Medical Officer. 
 1.5 Salary Scale -PL 3-2016 :
  Rs. 25,790 -10x270 - 10x300 - 10x330 - 12x350 
- Rs. 38,990. Will be placed in the initial salary 
step relevant to Grade 3 according to the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016. 
 1.6 Recruitment Procedure : 
  Will be recruited through a professional test and 
general interview. the applicants will be selected 
depending on the highest marks obtained from 
the test conducted by a panel approved by the 
director General of combined services with the 
recommendation of the secretary to the ministry. 
  Basic recruitment qualifications will be inspected 
by a general interview board approved by the 
director General of combined services with the 
recommendation of the secretary to the above 
ministry. 
  (marks will not be given in the general interview 
board). 
  Professional Test : 
  Subject Highest Pass 
    Marks Marks
driving skills 40 20
Practical knowledge in rules  40 20
 in Highway code 
basic knowledge in motor 20 10
 mechanism

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1957
2. Primary (semi skilled) service category. 
Gardener Grade iii - 01 vacancy
carpenter Grade iii - 01 vacancy
 2.1 Educational Qualifications.- should have passed 
06 subjects with at least 02 credit passes not 
in more than two sittings at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. 
 2.2 Professional Qualifications.- should have 
obtained at least 2nd level competency in National 
V ocational Qualification as stipulated by Tertiary 
and V ocational Educational commission relevant 
to the field. 
 2.3 experience.- two year work experience in the 
relevant field obtained from a recognized institute. 
(Should be certified by the certificates). 
 2.4 Salary Scale - PL 2-2016.
  Rs. 25,250 -10x270 -10x330 -12x350 -    Rs. 38,450. 
  Will be placed in the initial salary step relevant 
to the Grade iii according to the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016.
 2.5 Recruitment Procedure.- applicants who obtain 
highest marks from the professional test and the 
structured interview will be recruited upon the 
decision of the interview board. 
  Professional Test : 
  Subject Highest Pass 
   marks marks
 Professional test relevant to  100% 40%
 the post 
  Structured Interview.- Qualifications will be 
examined in the structural interview : 
Headings for which marks are given 
Additional educational qualifications
additional experience 
courses followed and trainings obtained relevant to the 
field from an institution recognized by the Government
Personality and attitude shown at the interview
3. Primary (non skilled) service category - museum 
attendant Grade iii.
Vacancies - 53.
 3.1 Educational Qualification.-  should have passed 
06 subjects with at least 02 credit passes in 
not more than two sittings at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. 
 3.2 Salary Scale - PL 1-2016.
  Rs. 24,250  -10x250 - 10x270 - 10x300 - 12x330 
- Rs. 36,410. 
  Will be placed in the initial salary step relevant 
to the Grade iii according to the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016. 
  Recruitment Procedure.- applicants who obtain 
highest marks from a structured interview 
conducted by the board of interview appointed by 
the director General of National museums will be 
recruited, based on the decision of the board of 
interview. 
Headings for which marks are given.
Additional educational qualifications
additional experience
courses followed and trainings obtained 
relevant to the field from an institution 
recognized by the Government
sports and other activities
Personality and attitude shown at the interview
conditions of above all employment
Conditions of employment.- these posts are permanent. 
the appointment is subjected to 3 year probation period. 
you are subjected to the policy decision taken by the 
Government in the future relevant to the pension scheme 
entitle to you. applicants recruited should contribute to the 
Widows/Widowers and orphans Pension fund. 
Other Qualifications :
 (a) applicants should be citizens of sri Lanka.  
 (b) should have an excellent moral character.
 (c) should not be less than 18 years and more than 45 
years of age as at 23.09.2016.
 (d) Each applicant should have a better physical and 
mental fitness to discharge duties of the post and 
serve in any area of the island.
 (e) All the qualifications should be completed as at 
the closing date. 
Method of sending the Application .- the applications 
should be prepared according to the given specimen 
by using both sides of a4 papers and completed by the 
applicant's own handwriting. application should be 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1958
prepared as Headings No. 01-09 to appear on the first page, 
headings 10-12 to appear on the second page and headings 
13-15 on the 3rd page. 
the applications prepared in compliance with to the 
specimen appended hereto should be sent by the registered 
post to the director, department of National museums, 
Post box 854, sir marcus fernando mawatha, colombo 
07 on or before 23.09.2016. 
the applications which are not duly completed and 
those received after the closing date will be rejected. the 
receipt of application will not be acknowledged. Name of 
the post should be mentioned in the top left-hand corner of 
the envelope in which the applicant is enclosed. 
Attestation of the Signature.- the applicant's signature 
should be attested by a chief incumbent of a place of 
worship/Justice of the peace/government principal or 
staff officer in public service who is entitled to a salary 
scale of which the initial annual salary is not less than 
Rs. 240,360. the applicants who are currently employed 
should direct their applications through the relevant Head 
of the institution. 
Other Remarks.- the decision of the director of 
Museums shall be final regarding recruitment and any 
matter not covered by this notice. 
  director, 
  department of National museums.
No. 854, 
sir marcus fernando mawatha,
colombo 07,
19th august, 2016.
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN 
application for the post of ........................... in the 
department of national museums
(For office use only)
01. Name of applicant :
  1.1 Name with initials : 
    (i) in sinhala/t amil :–––––––––––.
    (ii) in English (in block letters):–––––––––––.
  1.2 Name denoted by initials :
    (i) in sinhala/t amil :–––––––––––.
    (ii) in English (in block letters) :––––––––––.
02. address :
  (i) Private address :–––––––––––.
  (ii) district :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Official address (if employed) :–––––––––––.
03. t elephone Number : 
 Permanent :–––––––––––.
 Official :–––––––––––.
04. date of birth :–––––––––––.
 age as at 23.09.2016 :
  y ears :––––––––. months :––––––––. days :–––––––.
05. National identity card Number :–––––––––––.
06. sex :–––––––––––.
07. civil status :–––––––––––.
08. citizenship : by descent/by registration :––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualification :–––––––––––.
  (i) G. c. E. (o/L) Examination :
   index Number :–––––––––––. 
   y ear :–––––––––––. 
   medium :–––––––––––.
 Subject Grade 
(1) ....................... .........................
(2) ....................... .........................
(3) ....................... .........................
(4) ....................... .........................
(5) ....................... .........................
(6) ....................... .........................
(7) ....................... .........................
(8) ....................... .........................
10. details about professional knowledge and competency 
:–––––––––––.
 Course Institution Subject Result
N. B.- Copies of all certificates should be attached. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1959
11. Work experience : 
 Post Institution Period
12.  if currently employed, give details :
 1. Post and Grade :–––––––––––.
 2. date of appointment :–––––––––––.
 3. institution :–––––––––––.
 4. Whether the post is pensionable or not :–––––––.
i, hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. if the particulars are furnished are found to be 
incorrect or false i am aware that i am liable for immediate 
termination of my service at any time even though i have 
been appointed to the post. 
   ––––––––––––,
   signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
13. attestation of the applicant's signature : 
i, do hereby certify that ................................................ 
who forwards this application is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature before me                         
on ................................
   –––––––––––,
   Signature of the attester with official seal. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name of the attester :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
Official seal :–––––––––––.
14. Certification of the Head of the Department, if the 
officer is employed in Public Service/Provincial Public 
service :
i, hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ........................... 
currently (employed) functions in the post of ....................... 
as permanent officer in this Ministry/Department and the 
particulars furnished by him/her are correct and he/she 
...................... can be released from the present post. if 
selected to this post. 
 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Head of the Department (Official Seal).
date :–––––––––––.
09-157
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy  Of  EDuCATION 
First Efficiency Bar Examination For Officers 
in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Education 
Administrative Service – 2016
it is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar 
Examination for officers in Grade III in the Sri Lanka 
Education administrative service will be held in 2016 
december in colombo.
02. the syllabus and other provisions relating to this 
Examination have been published in the Gazette extra 
Ordinary of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka bearing No. 1225/32 dated 01.03.2002. the syllabus 
and other provisions are indicated below for convenience.
Examination Procedure :
 (a)  The first Efficiency Bar Examination will consist 
of the following subjects.
subject Number 01 General administration – 
constitution of sri Lanka. 
Provisions of the Establishments 
code and other regulations of 
the government.
  
subject Number 02 finance
subject Number 03 Education, Educational Law, 
administration and supervision
 (b)  An Officer may take up the subjects of the 1
st 
Efficiency Bar Examination on one and the   same 
occasion or on separate occasions.
 (c)  Each paper will be of 3 hour duration.
03. Syllabus of examination :
(01) General Administration
 (a) the ceylon Government order in council, 
1946 and 1947 (chapter 973) 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1960
  the citizenship act, No. 18 of 1948 
(chapter 349)
  the constitution adopted and enacted on 
22nd may 1972
  Registration of persons eligible to vote – 
act, No. 44 of 1980
  Parliamentary Elections act, No. 19 of 1981
  Referendum act, No. 07 of 1981
  Presidential Elections act, No. 15 of 1981
  the constitution of the democratic socialist 
Republic of sri Lanka.
 (b)  Office and Field Organization and Methods 
the Establishments code and other 
Government Regulations
  chapters i, ii, iii, iV , V , Vi, Vii, iX, X, 
Xi, XVi, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXiX, 
XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii, XLViii 
of the Establishments code.
 (02) finance :
 (a)  the financial Regulations of the Government 
– Part i (Except chapter i).
 (b)  the Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure 
of the current year, e.g their arrangements; the 
Head of Revenue, finance and appropriation 
acts. 
 (c) ordinances and other Legislation relating to 
Specific Accounts dealt with in Education 
Offices.
03. Education, Education Law, Administration 
and Supervision
 (a) Education Law – candidates are excepted 
to be familiar with following ordinances 
and acts of Parliament.
	Education ordinance No. 31 of 1939
	amendment ordinance No. 26 of 1947
	amendment act, No. 05 of 1951
	amendment act, No. 43 of 1953
	code of Regulations for Government 
schools
	assisted schools and training colleges 
(special Provisions amendment) act, 
No. 05 of 1960
	assisted schools and training colleges 
(supplementary Provisions) act, No. 
08 of 1961
	Education  (change of designations) act, 
No. 35 of 1973
	Pirivena act, No. 64 of 1979
	the assisted schools and training colleges 
(special Provisions amendment) act, 
No. 65 of 1981
	National institute of Education act, No. 
28 of 1985
 (b)  Education Administration - 
 1.  Policies of the ministry of Education
   
 (i) ministry of Education
 (ii) organization and functions of the 
ministry of Education and the 
departmental institutions under 
the ministry including district 
departments.
 (iii) Educational Planning developments 
at National and Regional levels; aims 
and objectives, methods (including 
school mapping), implementation 
etc.
    
 2.  school management, school community 
relationship
 3.  Educational management information 
systems
 4.  special Education Programmes.
 (c) Educational Supervision   -
	 scheme for school supervision and 
criteria used in evaluation of teacher 
performance,
	 continuous evaluation programmes in 
school,
	 self evaluation programs in schools,
	 school supervision by the district 
departments and the ministry of 
Education,
	 Validation of internal Evaluation by  
External teams,
 (candidates are advised to be thorough 
with the circulars, manuals and other 
Publications issued by the ministry of 
Education)
 Reference :-
	 asian institutes of Educational 
Planning and administration (1970),
	 modern management techniques in 
Educational administration,
	 a Report of a seminar – New delhi,

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1961
	 barry and tye. (1975) Running a 
school – temple smith London,
	 bush t. Glatter, R Good, c. Riches, 
(eds. 1980) schools,
	 approaches to school management, 
Harper and Row,
	 dr. Khan mohideen sheriff (1983),
	 school administration, New delhi,
	 ministry of Education –Education in 
ceylon (1969),
	 a centenary V olume Part ii, Part iii 
ministry of Education and cultural 
affairs, ceylon,
	 open University (1981) Policy making, 
organization and Leadership in schools 
(block 4 of course E 323) open 
University Press, London, shipman, 
murten (1983) in school Evaluation, 
Heineman Education books, London, 
Report on the management Reforms in 
the ministry of Education 1984.
04. total marks allocated for each paper is 100. a 
candidate should obtain 40% or above of total marks to 
pass each paper. 
05.  Language  medium of the examination :
  (i) Examination would be held in sinhala, tamil 
and English language,
 (ii) candidates can answer the question papers 
either in the Official Language or in the 
National Language,
 (iii) candidates can answer in the Language 
medium of the competitive Examination he 
passed to enter the Public service or if there 
was no competitive Examination, Language 
medium of qualifying examination to enter the 
Public service.
06. if it is detected that a candidate has answered the 
question papers in a language medium for which he is not 
entitled his/her candidature will be cancelled. He will not 
be  allowed to change the language medium applied for, at 
a later stage.
07. application should be prepared and submitted by 
using both sides of a4 size paper in conformity with the 
specimen form indicated below. (item 01 to 05 should 
appear in the first page and the remaining items should 
appear in the second page) in the sinhala application the 
name of the examination should be indicated in English 
in addition to sinhala and in the tamil application the 
name of the examination should be indicated in English in 
addition to tamil. Relevant information in the application 
should be clearly written in candidate’s own handwriting. 
applications which are not in conformity with the specimen 
form and those which are incomplete will be rejected 
without notification. It is advisable to keep a photo copy 
of the application with the candidate. candidates should be 
vigilant as to whether the duly completed application is in 
conformity with the specimen form and it should be noted 
that the application will be rejected if it is not so.
08.  (i) the Examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examination  
and the candidates are bound by the rules 
prescribe by him for conducting examinations. 
these rules are indicated at the end of this 
notification.
 (ii) Exam Results
  the results of all the applicants who face 
for the above examination will be issue to 
secretary, ministry of Education.
09. applications should be forwarded under registered 
post through Heads of departments addressed to the 
commissioner General of the Examinations, organizations 
and foreign Examinations branch, sri Lanka Examinations 
department, P.o. box – 1503, colombo. to be received on 
or before 03.10.2016. Name of the Examinations should 
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. any 
application received after this date will be rejected.
10. admissions will be issued by the commissioner 
General of Examinations for the applicants who have 
submitted perfected applications accurately along with 
the receipt obtained subsequent to paying the relevant 
prescribed examination fees if it is required to pay the 
examination fee on or before the closing date of receiving 
applications as mentioned in the notification and with the 
language medium of sitting the Examination, signature of 
the candidate and the certificate issued by the Head of the 
department.
immediately after the issue of admission cards to 
the candidates a news paper notification to that effect 
will be published by the department of Examination. if 
the admission cards are not received even after 02 or 03 
days of the news paper notice it should be notified to the 
department of Examinations according to instructions 
in the news paper notice. A certified photo copy of the 
application retained with the candidate, the registration 
receipt, and the fax number for sending the admission card 
if the candidate is resident out side colombo should be sent 
to the department of Examinations. a copy of the letter of 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1962
request sent to the department of Examinations should be 
retained with the candidate. (fax No. - 011-2784232)
 (i) Name of Examination
 (ii) full name of candidate
 (iii) address of the candidates in full
 (iv) date of posting the application, registered letter 
Number and post office.
11. Complains from candidates who fail to fulfill 
the requirements indicated in para 9 above will not be 
considered.
12. (i)  Every candidate should get his / her signature 
attested and the admission card with attested 
signature should be submitted to the supervisor 
on the first day of examination. 
 (ii) at the examination hall it is the responsibility 
of the candidates to produce evidence in proof 
of their identity and for this purpose only the 
identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons or a valid Passport will 
be accepted.
13. fees for examinations will be charged as follows. 
the relevant examination fee should be paid at any Post 
Office / Sub Post Office to be credited to revenue Head 
2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations. 
the receipt obtained for the payment from the district / 
divisional secretariat should be pasted in the relevant box 
of the application form. (it is advisable to retain a copy of 
the receipt with you)
 (a) first sitting (fees won't be levied for the whole 
examination or part of it)
 (b) thereafter, for each sitting
   for the whole examination Rs. 1000.00
   for one subject Rs.   500.00
(14) (i) the issue of an admission card should not be 
considered an acceptance that he/she has 
fulfilled the qualifications to appear for the 
examination.
 (ii)  all candidates are subject to the rules and 
regulations given by the commissioner General 
of Examinations. any candidate who breaches 
such rules and regulations will be subject to 
the punishments given by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. 
15. in a case of any inconsistency among the sinhala, 
Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
16. the right of taking a decision regarding any matter, 
which has not been covered by this notification is reserved 
by the secretary to the ministry of Education.  
       
 W. m. 
Bandusena,
 secretary, 
 ministry of Education,  
   
ministry of Education,
“isurupaya”,
battaramulla.
11th august, 2016. 
    (For official use only)
aPPLicatioN  foRm
first  efficiency  Bar  examination  for  officers  in  
grade  iii  of the  sri lanka  education  service – 2016
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha iii jk fY%a‚fha 
ks,Odßka i|yd jk m<uqjk ld¾hlaIu;d lvbï 
úNd.h - 2016
(to be forwarded to commissioner General of 
Examinations, sri Lanka department of Examinations, 
Pelawatta, battaramulla by registered post through the 
Head of the department).
Language medium for the examination : 
 sinhala 2
 t amil 3
  English 4
   (Relevant number to be written within cage)
(Name of examination should be written on the top left 
corner in the envelope)
01.  (i) Name in full (in English block capitals) :           
–––––––––––.
        Eg: - HERatH mUdiyaNsELaGE samaN 
KUmaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa 
  (ii) Name indicating last name first and the initials 
of the other names : (in English block capitals) 
:–––––––––––.
        Eg: - GUNaWaRdHaNa, H.m.s.K. 
  (iii) Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1963
02. address :
  (i) address to which the admission of the 
Examination should be sent (in English block 
capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
  (iii) Private address (in sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––.
  (iv) t elephone Number :–––––––––––.
03.  National identity card No. :
04. subjects offered with subject numbers as indicated 
in para 02(a) in the notification to be written 
clearly.  
subject Number  subject ....................
subject Number subject ....................
subject Number subject ....................
05.  sex  :                    
  male           -   0
  female       - 1
        (Relevant number to be written within the cage)
06.  date of birth :
  y ear  month date
07.  (i) designation :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Department / Zonal Education Office/ Divisional 
Education Office / School :–––––––––––.
08. state whether you have appeared for this examination 
previously, in whole or in part and if so state year, 
subjects and medium in which answers were written :
      y ear subject medium
 ..................... .................... .......................
 ..................... .................... .......................
 ..................... .................... .......................
09. details of the receipt:
 (i) Name of the Secretariat Office where you paid 
the examination fee :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Receipt number and date :–––––––––––.
 (iii) the amount paid :–––––––––––.
 
Paste the receipt received after payment here 
(A photocopy to be retained by the candidate) 
Only if relevant
10. i hereby declare that the particulars furnished 
above are true and correct and that i am entitled to sit this 
examination in the medium indicated in the application. i 
also agree to abide by all the rules and regulations of the 
examination. i also declare that i will be subject to the rules 
and regulations to be imposed relating to this examination 
by the commissioner General of Examinations.
          --------------------,
 signature  of  candidate.
date  :–––––––––––.
commissioner General of Examination :
submitted
i certify that the candidate whose particulars appear as 
above is eligible to sit this examination and that he/she is 
entitled to sit in the language medium indicated by him/her 
in the application.
I mention further that the receipt for payment is affixed 
above (*).
    
 –––––––––––––––,
               signature and designation of the 
 Head of Department and official frank.
date :–––––––––––.
(*) to be deleted when payment of fees is not requested.
09–86
––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy   Of  AGRICuLTuRE
Department of Agriculture
oPEN/LimitEd comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR 
REcRUitmENt to GRadE iii of tHE Posts of 
sRi LaNKa tEcHNoLoGicaL sERVicE iN tHE 
dEPaRtmENt of aGRicULtURE - 2016
aPPLicatioNs are called from citizens of sri Lanka 
who have fulfilled the following qualifications for Open/
Limited competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
Grade iii of the Posts of Engineering assistant (civil), 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1964
Engineering assistant (mechanical), Engineering assistant (Electrical) of the sri Lanka technological service in the 
department of agriculture. the closing date of applications is 30th september 2016. 
 02.1 Recruitment on Open Basis :
 02.1.1 the age of applicants should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years as at 30th september 
2016, the closing date of applications. Accordingly, an applicant qualifies to sit the examination in 
terms of the age only if his/her date of birth falls on of before 30.09.1998 and on or after 30.09.1986. 
The age limit will not be applicable to Officers who are already in the Public and Provincial Public 
services. 
 02.1.2 The candidates are required to fulfill the following Basic Educational Qualifications and Professional 
Qualifications :
 Code Post  02.1.3 Educational Qualifications 02.1.4. 
 No.   G. C. E. (O/L) G. C. E. (A/L) Professional Qualifications
 relevant to
 the  post
a pass in G. c. E. 
(o/L) Examination 
in 06 (six) subjects 
with credit passes 
in sinhala/t amil/ 
English Langauge, 
mathematics, science 
and any other subject 
at one sitting.
a pass in G. G. E. (a/L) 
in 03 science subjects 
including two subjects 
out of applied maths, 
Pure maths, chemistry, 
Physics, combined 
maths at one sitting. 
(except General English 
and General test)
Professional Qualifications in 
the field relevant to the post out 
of the following qualifications 
should be obtained.
 (i) National technological 
diploma awarded by 
University of moratuwa 
or Hardi institute, ampara 
or
 (ii) National diploma in 
Engineering awarded 
by National apprentice 
training and t echnical 
training authority 
or
 (iii) National Higher diploma 
in Engineering awarded 
by ministry of Education 
and Higher Education 
or
 (iv) technical diploma 
awarded by open 
University of sri Lanka
or
 (v) successfully completion 
of part i of the Engineering 
Examination conducted by 
the sri Lanka Engineering 
services institution 
or
 (vi) Have completed 
qualifications at the Level 
6 of National V ocational 
Qualifications (NVQ)
 
 01.  Engineering 
  assistant (civil)
 02 Engineering 
  assistant 
  (mechanical)
 03 Engineering
  assistant
  (Electrical)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1965
 Code Post  02.1.3 Educational Qualifications 02.1.4. 
 No.   G. C. E. (O/L) G. C. E. (A/L) Professional Qualifications
 relevant to
 the  post
or
 (vii) Have obtained  
Technological qualifications 
that recognized by the 
tertiary and V ocational 
Education
commission as equal in 
every respect to the aforesaid 
Technological qualifications 
having consulted the ministry 
of Higher Education and the 
institutions that award above 
mentioned certificates. 
 02.1.5 Other Qualifications.– All applicants should certify that they have fulfilled the following qualifications.
 * should be a citizen of sri Lanka,
 * should be an excellent moral character, 
 * a  clergy in any religious sect is not eligible to apply for this examination, 
 * Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island.
02.2 Recruitment on Limited Basis -
 02.2.1
 Code Post 02.2.2. educational 02.2.3 Professional  
 No.   Qualifications Qualifications Experience
 relevant to  G. C. E. (O/L) 
 the  post  examination
a pass in G. c. E. 
(o/L) Examination 
in 06 (six) subjects 
with credit passes in 
sinhala /Language 
or Literature 
mathematics, 
science at not more 
than two sittings.
Professional 
qualifications in the 
field relevant to the post 
out of the following 
qualifications should be 
obtained.
 (i) National diploma 
in technology 
awarded by 
University of 
moratuwa or Hardi 
institution, ampara 
or
 (ii) National diploma 
in Engineering 
awarded by 
National apprentice 
and technical 
training authority
or 
five years (05) experience with 
professional qualifications in a 
primary unskilled departmental 
post (PL-1) in the relevant field 
or in a post higher than that.
 01.  Engineering 
  assistant (civil)
 02 Engineering 
  assistant 
  (mechanical)
 03 Engineering
  assistant
  (Electrical)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1966
 Code Post 02.2.2. educational 02.2.3 Professional  
 No.   Qualifications Qualifications Experience
 relevant to  G. C. E. (O/L) 
 the  post  examination
 (iii) National Higher 
diploma in 
Engineering awarded 
by ministry of 
Education and 
Higher Education
or
 (iv) technical diploma 
awarded by open 
University of sri 
Lanka
or
 (v) successfully 
completion of Part 
i of the Engineering 
Examination 
conducted by the sri 
Lanka Engineering 
service institution
or
 (vi) Have completed 
qualifications at 
the Level 6 of 
National V ocational 
Qualifications (NVQ)
or
 (vii) Have obtained 
technological 
qualifications that 
recognized by 
the tertiary and 
Vocational Education 
commission as equal 
in every respect 
to the aforesaid  
technological 
qualifications 
having consulted 
the ministry of 
Higher Education 
and the institutions 
that award above 
mentioned 
certificates.
 02.2.4 Other Qualifications :
 (i)  Should be confirmed in the post.
 (ii)  should have completed active and satisfactory service during the period of 05 years immediately  
proceeding to the due date.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1967
03. Fulfillment of the qualific ations required to appear 
in this written examination for recruitment to the sri Lanka 
Technological Service will be recognized only if the officer 
has completed the all qualifications in every respect on or 
before the closing date of applications.
04. by vacancies existing in the department 70% will be 
filled from open stream and 30% will be filled from  limited 
stream. In case, there is no sufficient number of internal 
applicants who have satisfied the basic qualifications in 
the Department of Agriculture to be filled the percentage 
allocated to recruit from limited competitive examination, 
remaining vacancies will be filled from external applicants 
who will be selected by the open competitive Examination. 
further, the appointing authority has reserved the authority 
to fill some of or all vacancies or to unfill all vacancies.
Salary and Efficiency Bar Examinations :
salary code  -  mN 03/2016
salary scale  -  Rs. 31,040 - 10x445 - 11x660 
10x730- -10x750 - Rs. 57,550.
The First Efficiency Bar Examination should be 
completed within three (3) years from the date of 
appointment to the Grade III and the second Efficiency 
bar Examination should be completed within three (3) 
years from the date of promotion to Grade II. An officer 
who has joined the Public service in a Language other 
than the Official Languages should acquire the proficiency 
in official language as prescribed within the period of 
Probation. For the fulfillment of the proficiency in other 
language prescribed for the post, the test of secondary merit 
level language course conducted by the commissioner 
of Official Languages should be passed as per sub - 
para: 1(b) of the P.A. Circular 07/2007, within five (5) 
years from the date of appointment. failure to obtain the 
proficiency in official languages and pass the Efficiency 
bar Examinations within the periods as prescribed will be 
a cause for the deferment of salary increments.
05. Terms of engagement :
 (i) these posts are permanent, pension will be 
determined according to policy decisions taken 
by the Government.
 (ii)  you should serve in any part of the island in 
which you are called upon to serve.
 (iii)  you will be subject to the conditions of the 
minutes on sri Lanka technological service 
published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka 
No. 1426/34 of 06.01.2006, effective at present 
and any other amendments hereinafter made 
thereto and to the recruitment procedures.
06. Method of Application :
 (a)  the specimen of the application for this 
examination is appended at the end of 
this notification. The  Application should 
accordingly be prepared only on a4 size, 
(21cm x 29cm) paper using both sides of the 
paper, so as heads 01 to 02 in the first page, 
03 to 05 in the second page, and the rest in 
the page 3 of the application. the relevant 
particulars should be filled by applicant in 
his/her own hand writing. the name of the 
examination appears in the heading of the 
application prepared either in sinhala or tamil 
Language  is required to be printed in English 
language as well. applications which are not in 
accordance with the  specimen and incomplete 
applications will be rejected without notice. 
if would be an advantage to keep a photocopy 
of the application with you. further, applicant 
should check whether the application prepared 
by him/her is in order of the specimen appended 
to this notification. Unless the application may 
be rejected.
 
 (b)  Hence, both open/limited examinations will 
be held as one examination, an applicant can't 
apply for both open and limited categories of 
examinations. accordingly, an applicant can 
apply only for one category out of open and 
limited categories.
 (c) As Specified in (g) below, only one post should 
be applied.
 (d) the application should  be completed only in 
the language in which the applicant intends to 
sit for the examination.
 (e) duly completed applications should be 
sent by registered post to commissioner 
General of Examinations, organization and 
foreign Examinations branch, department 
of Examinations, P.o. box 1503, Palawatte, 
battaramulla on or before 30th of september 
2016.
 (f) the words "competitive Examination 
for recruitment to the Posts of sri Lanka 
technological service in the department of 
agriculture - 2016" should clearly be marked 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1968
on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application.
 (g) an applicant can apply for only one post and 
the examination fee is Rs. 750/-. the receipt 
(original) obtained on the payment of the 
above examination fee to any Post Office / Sub 
Post Office in the Island with the instructions 
to credit the payment to the Revenue Head 
2003-02-13 of the commissioner General  of 
Examinations should be affixed in the space 
provided in the application. Keeping a copy 
of the receipt with you would be an advantage 
in the future. the Examination fee will not be 
refunded in any circumstance and money orders 
and stamps will not be accepted.
 (h) applications which are not complete in every 
respect or delayed will be rejected without 
notice, and no complaint that an application 
has been lost or delayed in the post will be 
considered.
 (i) the signature of the applicant in the application 
for the Examination and admission card should 
have to be got attested. an applicant apply 
for the examination through an institution 
should get attested his signature by his Head 
of Institution or an Officer who is authorized 
by him and other applicants should get attested 
their signatures by a Principal of a Government 
school, Grama Niladhari in the division, a 
Justice of Peace, a commissioner for oaths, a 
Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer in there 
Forces, a Staff grade  Officer in the Public or 
Provincial Public service, who has drawn an 
annual salary of Rs. 240,360/- or above.
 (j) those who are already in the Public or 
provincial Public service should forward 
applications through  heads of their respective 
institutions.
 (k)  serial Nos. 07 - 12 are applicable only to 
applicants who apply on Limited basics.
07. Scheme of examination :
 (a) Admission Card :
  on pre - determination that only the applicants 
who have fulfilled the qualifications prescribed 
in the Gazette  Notification have applied for 
the examination, the commissioner General 
of Examinations will issue admission cards 
to applicants who are within the age limits 
specified in the notification, and who have 
forwarded duly completed applications with 
the language in which she/he intends to sit for 
the examination, city and the posts applied for, 
signature of the applicant and attestation of 
the signature, if  applicable certificate of the 
Head of intuitions and the receipt obtained on 
payment of the examination fee on or before the 
closing date of applications. a candidate must 
produce his/her attested admission card to the 
supervisor of the examination hall. a candidate 
who fails to produce his/her admission card 
will not be permitted to sit for the examination. 
issuance of an admission card to an applicant 
does not necessarily mean that he/she has the 
requisite qualification to sit for the examination.
 (b) department of Examinations of sri Lanka will 
published a notice in News Papers immediately 
after issuing  admission cards to the applicants. 
any applicants who has not received his/her 
admission card 02 or 03  days after publishing 
the notice in News Papers, should notify to the 
department of Examinations as stated in this 
Notification. It is informed to notify to the Sri 
Lanka department of Examinations stating the 
name of the examination, your name, address, 
and  N.i.c number keeping in hand the copies 
of the application  form, receipt of payment of 
examination fee and in case of an applicant out 
side colombo it would be more  advantageous 
to notify to the sri Lanka department of 
Examinations faxing a request with a fax 
number to  which the copy of the admission 
card with above information to be sent.
 (c)  traveling expenses or any other allowance will 
not be paid to candidates in respect of appearing 
in this examination.
 (d)  Identification of candidates.– a candidate 
will be required to prove his/her identity at 
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor of each subject he offers. for this 
purpose following documents will be accepted :
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a  valid passport. 
 (e) Syllabus :
 (i) intelligence test - (t ime 01 hour, total 
marks - 100)
  this paper consists of 50 multiple choice 
and short answer type questions so as to 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1969
make an assessment of the candidate's, power of logical reasoning, analysis and ability to draw sound 
inferences. all questions should be answered. 
 (ii) subject related question paper (t ime 02 hours. total marks - 100)
  this paper consists of structured type questions to examine the candidate's subject knowledge. 
 Post  Syllabus of Subject related Question Paper
01 Engineering assistant (civil) architectural drawings/structural drawings/knowledge on building materials/
preparation of building scale measurements and estimation/services/safty 
methods/teaching methods.
02 Engineering assistant  motor mechanics'/mechanical drawings and geometrical drawings/workshop 
 (mechanical)   materials/plating/properties of materials and simple calculations/plant/
welding/cutting blades/smithing/safty methods/teaching methods.
03 Engineering assistant  Knowledge on basic principles of power generation/types of electric motors 
 (Electrical)  and generators and practical usage, identification of faults and repairs of 
them/knowledge on accessories used in three phase an single circuits and 
identification of the type of wires/preparation of estimates for building 
and plant wiring/preparation of drawings/basic knowledge on electronic 
circuits for normal office equipment repairs/basic knoweldge on electrical 
systems of vehicles, agri-machinery/knowledge on use of multi -meter and 
other measuring equipments/basic knowledge on air - conditioners and 
refrigerators/safty methods/teaching methods. 
 
 (f) Medium of examination.– this examination will be conducted in sinhala-tamil and English Languages. 
a candidate must answer all papers of the examination in one and the same language. the language of the 
examination given in the application will not be allowed to change later. 
 (g) the commissioner General of Examinations will allow to sit for this competitive examination to all 
applicants who have paid the examination fee and forwarded applications to reach on or before the date 
specified in this notification on pre determination that the aplications have only been sent by those who 
have fulfilled the requirements prescribed in this Gazette Notification. Issuance of admission card does 
not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite qualifications to sit for the examination. All candidates 
are subject to the rules imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations in connection with this 
examination. a candidate who violates any of these rules is liable to a punishment at the discretion of the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
 (h) Place and Date of examination .– this examination will be conducted by the commissioner General 
of Examinations at Colombo and Kandy on November 2016. In case of receiving insufficient number 
of applications, the examination will only be held in colombo. (the examination center given in the 
application will not be allowed to change later).
   examination Center Code No. 
   colombo 01
   Kandy 02
08. Method of Recruitment :  
 (i) Recruitments will be considered on the merit list prepared according to aggregate of marks of the 
applicants selected from those who have secured 40% or more marks in each question paper. 
 (ii) The qualifications of the applicants will be scrutinized by a Board of Interview appointed by the Director 
General of agriculture based on the merit of marks of the Examination. subsequently those who have 
fulfilled the requirements will be selected for the posts. (Marks will not be awarded at the interview).

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1970
 (iii) the Number of applicants to be called for the interview will be decided by the director General of 
agriculture. 
 (iv) If it is revealed at the interview that a candidate has not fulfilled the qualifications as at the closing date of 
applications for the post, his/her candidature will be cancelled. 
 (v) If a candidate will pass the examination appearing in it without completing the qualifications prescribed 
in this Gazette Notification as at the closing date of applications he/she will not be called for the interview 
and his/her application will be rejected without any notice. 
 (vi) if a candidate will receive an appointment by furnishing false information and counterfeit documents 
immediately after revealing such misconduct his/her appointment will be cancelled and legal actions will 
be taken against him/her.
 (vii) Issuance of results.- a list of candidates who have secured 40% or more marks in each subject will be 
provided to the Board of Interview as notified by the Director General of Agriculture. 
09. Any matter not priovided for in this notification will be decided by “appointing authority”. all candidates 
are bound to act in conformity with the General Rules of Examinations stipulated in this Gazette. 
10. In the event of any inconsistency among notifications published in three languages of this examination 
notification “The Sinhala notification” shall prevail.
  dr. R. R. a. 
Wijekoon, 
  director General of agriculture. 
at the department of agriculture, Peradeniya.
 
(For office use only)
specimen application form 
application for open/limited competitive examination for recruitment to grade iii of the posts of the sri lanka 
technological service in the department of agriculture - 2016
Examination applied for  - open Examination  - 1
 - Limited Examination - 2 
       (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
medium of Examination - sinhala - 2
  t amil - 3
  English - 4
       (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination centre - colombo - 1
  Kandy - 2
       (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Post applied for
Engineering assistant (civil) -  1   Post  Number
Engineering assistant (mechanical) -  2
Engineering assistant (Electrical) - 3
      (indicate the relevant post and number in the cage)

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1971
01. Name
  1.1 full Name :–––––––––––––.
   (in English capital letters) (eg. : HERatH   mUdiyaNsELaGE   samaN   KUmaRa   GUNaWaRdHaNa)
  1.2 Name indicating the last name first and initials at the end :–––––––––––––. 
   (in English capital letters) (eg. : GUNaWaRdHaNa  H. m. s. K.)
  1.3 full Name :–––––––––––––. 
   (in sinhala/tamil)
  1.4 National identity card Number :
  1.5 t elephone No. :–––––––––––––.
02. Permanent address :
  2.1 in English capital letters :–––––––––––––.
  2.2 in sinhala/t amil :–––––––––––––.
  2.3 address to which the admission should be sent :–––––––––––––.
   (in English capital letters)
  2.4 district of Permanent Residence :–––––––––––––.
  2.5 divisional secretariat division :–––––––––––––.
03. Gender :  female 1
    male 0 
      (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04.  4.1 date of birth :     
    y ear :   month :  date :
  4.2 age as at the closing date of applications : 
  years : months : days :
  4.3 marital status : Unmarried 1
      married  2   
          (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. Educational Qualifications (with the meduim) :
 (a) G. c. E. (o/L) :
  (i) y ear and month :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) index Number :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) medium :–––––––––––––.
  (iv) Results : 
      First sitting 
     Subjects  Pass
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1972
 (b) G. c. E. (a/L) :
  (i) y ear and month :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) index Number :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) medium :–––––––––––––.
  (iv) Results : 
       
     Subjects  Pass
    1
    2
    3
    4
06. Professional Qualification :
  Name of the  Name of the Institution Year Medium Index No. Valid date of
  Diploma awarded the diploma Passed   Diploma
07. Experience : (only for limited applicants) :
  7.1 Present Post :–––––––––––––.
  7.2 date of appointment to the above Post :–––––––––––––.
  7.3 Date of confirmation in the above post :–––––––––––––.
  7.4 Period of permanent and pensionable service :–––––––––––––.
  7.5 Have all the salary increments been earned during the period of 05 years immediately preceding as at ............. 
   2016  
08. The Post/Sub Post Office to which the examination fee was paid : 
  08.1. date of payment :–––––––––––––.
  08.2. No. of the receipt :–––––––––––––.
  08.3. amount :–––––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt obtained on payment of examination fee, so as to be unglued 
(keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
09. i agree to abide by the conditions of this examination :–––––––––––––.
10. delcaration of the applicant : 
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am also aware 
that, if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect. I am liable to be disqualified before selection 
or to dismissal without any compensation if such detection is made after appointment. further, i hereby declare that i am 
subject to the rules imposed in respect of this examination and decisions taken in respect of releasing the results by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. i also certify that only one application is submitted for the posts applied by me.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1973
11. Attestation of the signature of the Applicant : 
i hereby certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss..........
.......................... who submits this application is known to 
me personally and that he/she placed his/her signature in 
my presence on ........................... and he/she has paid the 
prescribed examination fee and affixed the receipt. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of attestor.
date :–––––––––––––.
full Name of attestor :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
(Please prove by the official seal)
11.1 those who are already in the Public/Provincial Public 
service (strike -off the word inapplicable) :
i hereby certify that the above applicant has/has not 
fulfilled the all requisite qualifications to appear in this 
examination as per this Gazette Notification and he/she 
has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt 
is affixed and he/she can/can't be released from his/her 
present post in this department if he/she is selected.
  ––––––––––––––––––,
  signature and designation of 
  Head of the department.
  (Official Seal)
date :–––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
(only for Limited applicants)
12. signature of Head of the Unit :
mr./mrs./miss ........................................ has served 
in this unit in a permanent post of .................................. 
since ....................... His/Her performances, attendance and 
conduct are satisfactory.  He/she has/has not been subject 
to disciplinary punishment. i certify that the informations 
given in 01 to 10 above are true and correct. 
application is recommended and forwarded. 
  –––––––––––––––––,
  signature and designation of Head of the Unit.
  (Official Seal)
date :–––––––––––––.
09–181
 
mINISTRy  Of  hOmE  AffAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Technical Officer of Sri Lanka 
Technological Service to be appointed for the 
service at District Secretariats/ Offices of the 
Government Agents and Divisional Secretariats 
under the ministry of home Affairs - 2016
aPPLicatioNs are hereby invited from the qualified Sri 
Lankan citizens for the open competitive Examination to 
be held for recruitment to the above posts.
 02. on the results of a written examination conducted 
by the director General of sri Lanka institute  of 
development administration, candidates who have 
fulfilled their qualifications on merit will be selected for 
appointment to the Post of Technical Officer Grade III 
or apprentice training for the Post of training Grade in 
sri Lanka technological service to be attached to 406 
vacancies in District Secretary/ Government Agent Offices 
and divisional secretariats under the ministry of Home 
affairs.
 03. Age Limit.– candidates should be not less than 18 
years and not be more than 40 years of age as at the closing 
date of applications. However, the maximum age limit will 
not be applicable for the candidates who are already in 
Public or Provincial Public service.
 04. Only the candidates who have fulfilled the following 
qualifications as at 03.10.2016 shall be considered as 
qualified candidates.
( a) Grade iii
  Educational Qualifications :
 (i) should have pass GcE (o/L) Examination, 
in six (06) subjects with credit passes for 
sinhala/tamil/English language, mathematics, 
science and one other subject, in one sitting.
  and
 (ii) should have passed GcE (a/L) Examination 
with three subjects in mathematics stream 
including Pure maths/applied maths/ combined 
maths and Physics, in one and the same sitting.
  Professional Qualifications :
  candidates should have obtained one of the 
following professional qualifications along 
with educational qualifications mentioned in 
04 (a) above.
 (i) National diploma in technology awarded 
by University of moratuwa or Hardy 
institution in ampara;
  or

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1974
 (ii) National diploma in Engineering awarded by 
National apprentice and industrial training 
authority;
  or
 (iii) Higher National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by ministry of Education & Higher 
Education;
  or
 (iv) diploma in technology awarded by the open 
University of sri Lanka ;
  or
 (v) successful completion of Part i of the 
Engineering Examination conducted by sri 
Lanka Engineering institute;
  or
 (vi) Any other Technical Qualifications recognized 
by the sri Lanka technological service board 
as equivalent to the technical qualifications 
mentioned above in every manner;
( b) training Grade (for one year period of training)
  Educational Qualifications :
 (i) should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
in six (06) subjects with credit passes for 
sinhala/tamil/English language, mathematics, 
science and one other subject, in one sitting
  and
 (ii) should have passed GcE (a/L) Examination 
with three subjects in mathematics stream 
including Pure maths/ applied maths/ 
combined maths and Physics, in one and the 
same sitting.
  Professional Qualifications :
 (i) should have obtained a National technical 
Certificate for successfully following a course 
relevant to the field of this employment offered 
by a technical college recognized by tertiary 
and V ocational Education commission. 
(e.g. : National Technical Certificate Civil/ 
Electrical/ mechanical)
  or
 (ii) Having obtained the relevant certificate for 
successfully completing a one year fulltime 
course on draftsmanship in a technical 
college recognized by tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission
 or
 (iii) Having obtained the certificate for successfully 
completing National Certificate Course for 
Industrial Technicians in a field relevant to the 
post, offered by technical college recognized 
by t ertiary and V ocational Education 
commission.
  or
 (iv) after getting observations from a ministry of 
Higher Education and the institutions which 
issue above mentioned technical certificates, 
having obtained other technical qualifications 
which are recognized by tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission that they 
are similar in every manner to the above 
technical qualifications.
 
 * The candidates who become qualified at the 
open competitive Examination for a training 
Grade in technological service shall be placed 
on the initial salary step of the salary scale 
of Grade III after they submit the certificate 
issued by the relevant institution to the 
effect that they have completed the one year 
theoretical and practical training according to 
the syllabus relevant to the service and have 
passed the relevant examination.
 * the apprentices who are unable to pass the 
examination held at the end of the training, 
have the opportunity to get their training 
extended for a period of not more than 06 
months. the service of the apprentices who 
fail the examination held at the end of the 
extended period will be suspended.
 05. Salary Scale :
 (a)  Grade iii
  mN 3-2016, under Public administration 
circular 03/2016.
  the salary scale is Rs. 31,040-445x10-660x11-
730x10-750x10- Rs. 57,550/- the candidates 
shall be entitled to this salary with effect from 
01.01.2020. salaries shall be paid from the 
effective date of appointment in accordance 
with the provisions available under schedule 
ii of this circular, in addition, they shall 
be entitled to other allowances paid by the 
Government from time to time.
  Candidates should pass First Efficiency Bar 
Examination before the 4th salary increment 
and obtain the relevant language proficiency 
level before elapsing five (05) years from the 
date of appointment to the Grade iii, as per the 
Public administration circular No. 01/2014 
and the relevant circulars.
 (b)  Training Grade:
  a  monthly allowance shall be paid under 
the schedule V of the Public administration 
circular 03/2016

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1975
 06. Service Conditions :
 1. this post is permanent. candidates should be 
bound by the policy decision to be taken by the 
Government on the pension scheme in future.
 2. selected candidates shall be attached to district 
Secretariats/ Office of the Government Agent 
and divisional secretariats at the discretion of 
secretary, ministry of Home affairs.
 3. selected candidates are liable to serve in any 
part of the island.
 4. selected candidates will be subjected to a 
probation period of three years. if the candidate 
is a confirmed officer in Public Service he/ she 
will be subjected to an acting period of one 
year.
 5. selected candidates are bound to abide by the 
provisions stipulated in the Establishments 
code and financial Regulations and the 
provisions of Public administration circulars, 
orders issued from time to time by the 
Government and the departmental instructions.
07. i.  Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments shall 
be made depending on the results of written 
competitive examination and a general 
interview. based on the order of merit of the 
total marks secured by the candidates who 
pass the written examination and according to 
the existing number of vacancies, a number of 
candidates equal to the number of vacancies 
expected to be filled, shall be subjected 
to the general interview and the qualified 
candidates shall be selected. this examination 
will be conducted by sri Lanka institute of 
development administration only in colombo 
on month of december 2016.
 ii. Scheme of examination :
 (a) Examination will be held only in sinhala 
& tamil mediums. candidates shall not be 
allowed to change the medium of language 
applied at a later occasion.
 (b) candidate should answer all question 
papers at the examination in one and the 
same language.
 (c) candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the director General 
of sri Lanka institute of development 
administration for the purpose of 
conducting the examination and issuing 
the results. He/ she shall be liable to be 
subject to any punishment imposed by the 
director General of sri Lanka institute of 
development administration if they found 
to have violated these rules and regulations.
 iii. Subjects of the examination.– Examination 
consists of two question papers :
 
  1. intelligence test,
  2. subject related technical test.
 
Note : if the number of candidates who are eligible to 
be recruited to Grade iii, which is the recruitment 
Grade, is less than the number of vacancies, the 
candidates who pass the qualifying examination 
under 4 (b) above shall be included into training 
Grade for the purpose of filling the remaining 
vacancies.
 08. Syllabus :
 1. intelligence test
  t ime: one hour - 100 marks
  the paper consists of the questions designed 
to assess the candidate's capacity in logical 
and analytical aspects of thinking and his/ her 
ability in decision making.
 2. subject Related technical test
  t ime : 03 hours - 100 marks
  the paper consists of questions designed to 
assess the knowledge on principles of building 
construction, designing and understanding 
plans, and method of water supply, drainage 
systems, and disposal of garbage.
 
the priority list of candidates who secured 40% or more 
for each question paper will be prepared in the order of the 
aggregate of marks secured by them for appointments.
* candidates are required to bring geometrical sets 
and other necessary tools to the examination 
center for answering the paper.
 09. Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– care 
should be taken to furnish correct information in filling the 
application form. if a candidate is found to be ineligible, 
his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage 
prior to during or after the examination, as per the rules 
and regulations of this examination. if, during any stage, 
it is found that a candidate has furnished false information 
he/she will be liable for dismissal from the Public service. 
the issue of an admission card to a candidate does not 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1976
necessarily mean that he/ she has fulfilled the required 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
10. examination Fee.– the fee is Rs. 500/-. it can be paid 
at any branch of bank of ceylon to be credited to account 
No. 02323278 of independence square branch in favour 
of "director General, sri Lanka institute of development 
administration." the original of the receipt should be 
pasted firmly on the relevant cage in the application form. 
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the 
candidate for future reference) Under no circumstance will 
the examination fee be refunded.
 11. Method of Application :- 
 (a) application should be prepared using papers of 
a4 size (21x29 cm) (normal half sheets) in such 
a manner that,
 i. Para No. 01-03 appear on the first page and
 ii. Para No. 04 onwards on the other pages.
 iii. applications which are incomplete and not 
prepared in accordance with the specimen 
from will be rejected without any notice. 
further it would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the completed application 
form. it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/ her complies with 
the specimen given in the examination 
notice. and otherwise the application shall 
be rejected. it is essential to mention the 
name of examination in English language 
as well, in applications prepared in both 
sinhala and tamil mediums.
 (b) the completed application form for the 
examination should be sent by Registered Post 
to reach below mentioned address on or before 
03.10.2016 :
  director General,
  sri Lanka institute of development 
administration,
  No. 28/ 10,
  malalasekara mawatha,
  colombo 07.
  the top left-hand corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application should be marked 
"open competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Technical Officer of Sri Lanka 
technological service for district secretariats/ 
Government Agent Offices and Divisional 
secretariats under the ministry of Home 
affairs-2016". any application received after 
the closing date will not be accepted.
 (c) It is compulsory for the officers who are already 
in public service to submit the application 
certified by the Head of the Department under 
the section 12.0 of the application. "the 
signature of the applicant should be attested in 
both the application and the  admission card for 
the examination. any applicant who applies for 
the examination via any institution, should get 
his/ her signature attested by his/ her head of 
the department or delegated officer by the head 
of the department while and other applicants 
from a head of government school, a Grama 
Niladhari of the division, justice of the peace, 
a commissioner for oath, a lawyer, notary 
public, a commissioned officer in the three 
armed forces, or an permanent executive officer 
from government or provincial public service 
who draws an annual consolidated salary of                  
Rs. 240,360 or more".
 (d) an sms will be sent to all the applicants by sri 
Lanka institute development administration 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to 
the candidates. if the admission card is not 
received even after one week of such message, 
information and instruction can be obtained by 
calling the Examination division of sri Lanka 
institute of development administration on 
0115-980236.
 (e) candidates shall get their signature on the 
admission card attested in advance and submit 
to the supervisor of the examination hall on the 
day of examination. candidates shall not be 
allowed to sit for the examination without such 
admission card.
 (f) issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate 
has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the 
examination.
 12. candidates will be required to submit any of the 
following documents to the supervisor of the examination 
hall to prove their identity. 
1. National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
2. a  valid Passport.
 13. if there is any matter not provided for in these 
regulations will be dealt with as determined by the 
secretary to ministry of Home affairs. candidates shall be 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1977
bound by the general rules & regulation pertaining to this 
examination mentioned in the Gazette. 
 neil de alWis,
 secretary,
 ministry of Home affairs.
ministry of Home affairs.
 
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
open competitive examination for recruitment to the
post of technical officer of sri lanka technological 
service to Be appointed for the
service at district secretariats/ offices of the
government agents and divisional secretariats under
the ministry of home affairs - 2016
 
(for office use only)
Language medium : 
 sinhala -  2 
 t amil  -  3 
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
Grade applied for:
 Grade iii -   1
 t raining Grade -   2
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0
 1.1 Name, with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) eg. PERERa, a.b.c
 1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in sinhala /tamil)
 1.4 N.i.c. Number :
2.0
 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be  
  sent  :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.4 Postal town :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.5 t elephone Number (mobile)  :–––––––––––. 
  Permanent  :–––––––––––.
 2.6 E-mail address  :–––––––––––.
3.0
 3.1 Gender :   
  female - 1 
  male - 0
  (indicate relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 date of birth : 
 y ear : month : date :
 3.3 age as at 03.10.2016 :
  y ears : months : days :
4.0 Educational qualifications :
 4.1 Particulars of G.c.E (o/L) Examination
 (i) y ear and month of the Examination  :–––––. 
 (ii) index Number  :––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade
 1 2
 3 4
 5 6 
 7 8
 9 10
 4.1 Particulars of G.c.E (a/L) Examination
 (i) y ear and month of the Examination  :–––––. 
 (ii) index Number :––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
 Subject Grade
 1
 2
 3
 4
5.0 Technical Qualifications:
 
 Institution Course Duration Grade Certificate 
  followed   No. & Date

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1978
6.0 Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
7.0 if already in public service :
 7.1 address of department/institution :––––––––––.
 7.2 Present Post :–––––––––––.
 7.3 Period of service :–––––––––––.
 7.4 Whether the post is permanent & pensionable or 
temporary :–––––––––––.
8.0  Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court 
of Law? (indicate 
P in the Relevant cage) (indicate 
particulars, if the answer is yes) :
 y es   No
9.0  Particulars of the receipt obtained for the payment of 
examination fee:
 (a) bank branch to which the payment was made 
:–––––––––––.
 (b) date :–––––––––––.
 (c) amount :–––––––––––.
 
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
10.0 Candidate's Certificate:
 (a) i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge. i agree so suffer any loss that 
may cause as a result of any information not being 
completed and/ or any information erroneously 
being included here. i also state that all sections 
herein have been correctly filled.
 (b) i am aware that if this statement declared by me 
is found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service 
if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
 (c) i hereby agree to abide by all the conditions 
imposed by sri Lanka institute of development 
administration for the purpose of holding this 
examination.
 
 (d) i shall not change any information mentioned 
herein later.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of applicant.
date  :–––––––––––.
11.0 attestation of applicant's signature:
i hereby certify that mr/mrs./miss ..........................
................ who submits this application, is known to me 
personally and that he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence on....................... and further the officer has paid 
the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on 
the applications.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
date  :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature :–––––.
designation  :–––––––––––.
address  :–––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
12.0 attestation of the Head of the department, if the 
candidate is public officer:-
i hereby submit the application of mr/mrs/miss 
.............................. further, it is hereby informed that he/
she is serving in a permanent/ temporary/ casual post of 
this ministry/ department and  he/she can / cannot be 
released from service, if selected for this post.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Head of the Department or authorized officer.
date  :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting  :–––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––.
ministry/department  :–––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
09–187
–––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  hOmE  AffAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Technical Assistant (Grade III) to 
be appointed for the service at District
Secretariats / Offices of the Government Agent 
and Divisional Secretariats under
the ministry of home Affairs - 2016
aPPLicatioNs are hereby invited from the qualified 
citizens of sri Lanka for the open competitive examination 
to be held for recruitments to the above posts.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1979
02. on the results of a written examination conducted 
by commissioner General of Examinations, candidates 
who have fulfilled their qualifications on merit will 
be  selected for appointment to the posts in Grade iii of 
Technical Assistant in District Secretariats/Offices of the 
Government agent and divisional secretariats under the 
ministry of Home affairs.
03. Age Limit.– candidates should be not less than 18 
years and not more than 35 years of age on the closing date 
of  applications. However, the maximum age limit shall 
not be applicable for the candidates who are already in 
Public service or Provincial Public service. (accordingly, 
the applicants who's birthday falls on 03.10.1998 or before 
or on 03.10.1981 or after shall be qualified to apply in 
terms of age.)
04. Educational Qualifications.- shall have pass             
G. c. E. (o/L) in not more than two sittings in six (06) 
subjects including language or Literature, mathamatics 
and science. 
05. Professional Qualifications.– shall have possessed 
National Certificate in Technology (Civil Engineering) at 
level 5 of NVQ awarded by a technical / technological 
college recognized by the Government along with the 
above educational qualifications.
06.  Other qualifications :
 (a) shall be a citizen of sri Lanka
 (b) shall have an excellent moral character
07. Salary Scale.– as per (mt 1-2016 a) under Public 
administration circular 03/2016, the salary scale is            
Rs. 29,840-10x300- 11x350-10x560-10x660- Rs. 48,890 
and it will come into effect from 01.01.2020. in accordance 
with the provisions of schedule ii of this circular, salaries 
will be paid from the effective date of the appointment. in 
addition, candidates shall be entitled to other allowances 
paid by the Government from time to time. the candidates  
should pass the first efficiency bar examination of Grade II, 
within 3 years of the appointment to Grade ii.
 Candidates should pass the first efficiency bar 
examination before reaching 4th salary increment and 
proficiency in second official language of the required 
level should be obtained before the lapse of 05 years  from 
the appointment as per Public administration circular               
No. 01/2014 and the related circulars.
08. Service Conditions :
 1.  this post is permanent. candidates should be 
bound by the policy decision to be taken by the 
Government on the pension scheme in future.
 2.  selected candidates will be attached to district 
Secretariats/ Officer of the Government Agent 
and  divisional secretariats on the discretion of 
secretary, ministry of Home affairs.
 3.  selected candidates are liable to serve in any part 
of the island.
 4.  selected candidates will be subjected to a 
probation period of three years. if the candidates 
is a confirmed  officer in Public Service he/she 
will be subjected to an acting period of one year.
 5.  selected candidates are bound by provisions 
indicated in Establishments code and 
financial Regulations and provisions of Public 
administration circular orders issued from time 
to time by the Government and instructions 
issued by the department.
09. (i) Method of recruitment :
  this examination will be held only in colombo 
by commissioner General of Examinations in 
december, 2016.
 (ii)  scheme of Examination :
 (a)  Examination will be held only in sinhala & 
tamil mediums. it is not allowed to change 
the medium of  language applied by the 
candidates consequently.
 (b) candidates should answer all question 
papers at the examination in one and the 
same language.
 (c) candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examination for the purpose 
of conducting the examination and issuing 
the results. candidates shall be liable to be 
subjected to any punishment imposed by 
commissioner General of Examination for 
violation of these rules and regulations.
 (iii)  subjects of the examination :
  Examination will consist of two question 
papers.
  (1) intelligence test
  (2) Question Paper on technology
10. Syllabus :
 1.  intelligence test
  t ime - 1 hour
  t otal marks - 100
  this paper consists of 50 questions designed 
to assess and decide the candidates capacity 

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1980
for critical reasoning and analytical power 
of thinking. the question paper consists of 
multiple choice question and short answer type 
questions and the candidates should answer all 
questions.
 2. Question Paper on technology
  t ime - 3 hour
  t otal marks - 100
  this paper consists of questions designed to 
assess the candidates knowledge on principles 
of building construction, designing and 
understanding plans, water supply, drainage 
systems, and disposal of garbage. candidates 
should answer all questions. 
 12.2  by selecting the candidates who have secured 
40% or more marks for each paper, a priority 
list for recruitment shall be prepared in the 
order of aggregate of makes for each paper.
 * candidates are required to bring geometrical 
sets and other necessary tools to the 
examination centre for answering the paper
11.  Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– care 
should be taken to furnish correct information in filling the 
application form. if a candidates is found to be ineligible, 
his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior 
to during or after the examination,  as per  the rules and 
regulations of this Examination. if, during any stage, it is 
found that a candidate has furnished false information he/
she will be liable for dismissal from the Public service. 
the issue of an admission card to a  candidate does not 
necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the required 
qualifications to sit for the  examination.
12. (i) examination Fee .– Examination fee is Rs. 
500. it should be paid at any Post Office/ Sub 
Post Office to be credited to Revenue Head 
2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of 
Examinations. the receipt issued by the Post 
Office /Sub Post office should be affixed securely 
to the relevant cage in the application form so 
as not to be detached. (it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate for 
future reference) Under no circumstance will 
the fee be refunded. money order or stamps will 
not be accepted as examination fees.
 (ii) examination Results.– of the candidates who 
sat for the this examination a list of candidates 
who have fulfilled the qualifications as per the 
para 10.2 of this notification, shall be provided 
to the secretary, ministry of Home affairs. the 
results of the examination shall be either sent 
personally to each applicant who sat for the 
examination or shall be posted on the website 
www.results.exams.gov.lk.
13. Method of Application :-
 (a) applications should be prepared using papers 
of a4  size (21x29 cm) (normal half sheets) in 
such a way that,
 (i)  Para 01 - 03 appear on the first page and
 (ii)  Para No: 04 onwards on the rest of the 
pages.
 (iii) applications which are incomplete and not 
prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form will be rejected without any notice. 
further it would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the completed application 
form. care should be taken by the candidate 
so as to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/her complies with 
the specimen given in the examination 
notice. otherwise, the applications shall be 
rejected. it is essential to mention the name 
of examination in the heading in English 
language as well, in applications prepared 
in both sinhala and tamil mediums.
 (b) the completed application form for the 
examination should be sent by Registered Post 
to reach below mentioned address on or before 
03rd of october 2016 :
  commissioner -  General of Examination
  organization and foreign Examination branch
  department of Examinations
  P.o. box 1503, colombo.
  the top left-hand corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application should be marked 
"Recruitment to the Post of technical assistant 
(Grade iii) in the ministry of Home affairs 
- 2016". any application received after the 
closing date will not be accepted. 
 (c) It is compulsory for the officers who are 
already in public service to submit the 
application certified by the Head of the 
department under the section 12.0 of the 
application. "the candidate's signature in both 
the aplication and the admission card should 
have been certified. An applicant who apply 

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1981
for this post from any institution should get 
his/her signature certified by his/her head of 
the department or a delegated officer by the 
said department head and other applicants 
from a head of a government school, a Grama 
Niladhari of the division, justice of the peace, 
a commissioner for oaths, a Lawyer, Notary 
Public, a Commissioned Officer in the three 
armed forces, or an permanent executive 
officer from government or provincial public 
service who draws an annual consolidated 
salary of more than Rs. 240,360. 
 (d) the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue the admission card for those 
applicants within the stipulated age limit and 
have paid the relevant examination fee and 
submitted the correctly filled applications 
along with the relevant receipt, on or before 
the closing date of applications. A notification 
will be published in newspapers as soon as the 
admission cards are issued to the candidates. 
if the admission card is not received at least 5 
days before the scheduled date of examination 
in the advertisement, steps should be taken 
to notify the organization and foreign 
Examination branch of the department of 
Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. in making such inquiry the 
candidate should clearly mention the name 
of the examination applied, full name of the 
applicant, National identity card Number 
and the address, if the applicant is resident 
outside colombo, it would be advisable to 
send a letter of request via fax to the number 
indicated in the notice, along with the above 
details and also indicating a fax number of 
applicant to which the admission card could 
be sent. it is also useful to keep photocopies 
of the application form and the receipt kept at 
your possession and the receipt of the postal 
registration ready in hand. 
 (e) candidates shall get their signature on the 
admission card certi fied in advance and 
surrender to the supervisor of the examination 
hall on the date of examination. candidates 
shall not be allowed to sit for the examination 
without such admission card. 
 (f) issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate 
has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the 
examination. 
14. candidates will be required to surrender any of the 
following documents to the supervisor of the examination 
hall to prove their identity, 
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a  valid passport.
15. any matter not provided for in these regulations will 
be dealt with as determined by the secretary to ministry of 
Home affairs. candidates shall be bound by the general 
rules and regulations pertaining to this examination 
mentioned in the Gazette. 
16. "if it appears that there is any inconsistency or 
discordance between language texts in this notification, 
which is published in sinhala, tamil and English mediums, 
on such occasion action will be taken in accordance with 
the notification in Sinhala medium". 
 
neil de alWis,
 secretary,
 ministry of Home affairs.
ministry of Home affairs.
15th of august, 2016.
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
open competitive examination for recruitment to the
post of technical assistant (grade iii) to Be appointed 
for the service at district secretariats/ offices of
government agent and divisional secretariats under
the ministry of home affairs - 2016
 
(for office use only)
Language medium : 
 sinhala -  2 
 t amil  -  3 
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
1.0
 1.1 Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
  (eg. HERatH  mUdiyaNsELaGE  samaN   
  KUmaRa GUNa WaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name, with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capital) 
  (eg. GUNa WaRdHaNa, H. m. s. K.)

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1982
 1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in sinhala /tamil)
 1.4 N.i.c. Number :
2.0
 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be  
  sent  :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.4 Postal district :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
3.0
 3.1 sex :   
  female - 1 
  male - 0
  (indicate relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 date of birth : 
 y ear : month : date :
 3.3 age as at 03.10.2016 :
  y ears : months : days :
4.0 Educational qualifications :
 4.1 Particulars of G.c.E (o/L) Examination :
 (i) y ear and month of the Examination  :–––––. 
 (ii) index Number  :––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade
 1 2
 3 4
 5 6 
 7 8
 9 10
 4.2 Particulars of G.c.E (a/L) Examination
 (i) y ear and month of the Examination  :–––––. 
 (ii) index Number :––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
 Subject Grade
 1
 2
 3
 4
5.0 Technical Qualifications:
 
 Institution Course Duration Pass Certificate 
  followed   No. & Date
6.0  Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
7.0  if already in public service :
 7.1 address of department/institution :––––––––––.
 7.2 Present Post :–––––––––––.
 7.3 Period of service :–––––––––––.
 7.4 Whether the post is permanent & pensionable or 
temporary :–––––––––––.
8.0  Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a 
court of Law? (indicate 
P in the Relevant cage) 
(indicate particulars, if the answer is yes) :
 y es   No
9.0  Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination 
fee:
 (i) Office to which the payment was made :––––––.
 (ii) Number and the date of the receipt :––––––––––.
 (iii) amount :–––––––––––.
 
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
10.0 Candidate's Certificate:
 (a) i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge. i agree so suffer any loss that 
may cause as a result of any information not being 
completed and/ or any information erroneously 
being included here. i also state that all sections 
herein have been correctly filled.
 (b) i am aware that if any particulars contained here in 
are found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service 
if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
 (c) i here by agree to abide by all the conditions 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination for the purpose of holding this 
examination.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1983
 (d) i shall not change any information mentioned 
herein later.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of applicant.
date  :–––––––––––.
11.0 Attestation of Applicant's Signature :
i hereby certify that mr/mrs./miss ..........................
................ who submits this application, is known to me 
personally and that he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence on....................... and further the officer has paid 
the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on 
the applications.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
date  :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature :–––––.
designation  :–––––––––––.
address  :–––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
12.0 attestation of the Head of the department, if the 
candidate is a public officer:-
i hereby submit the application of mr/mrs/miss 
.............................. further, it is hereby informed that he/
she is serving in a permanent/ temporary/ casual post of 
this ministry/ department and  he/she can / cannot be 
released from service, if selected for this post.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Head of the Department or authorized officer.
date  :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting  :–––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––.
ministry/department  :–––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
09–186
 

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1984
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIVE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Gov-
ernment Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
schedule of separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIVE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.09.2016
1985
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2016
 September 02.09.2016 friday — 19.08.2016 friday 12 noon
  09.09.2016 friday –– 26.08.2016 friday 12 noon
  15.09.2016 thursday –– 02.09.2016 friday 12 noon
  23.09.2016 friday –– 09.09.2016 friday 12 noon
  30.09.2016 friday –– 15.09.2016 thursday 12 noon
 October 07.10.2016 friday — 23.09.2016 friday 12 noon
  14.10.2016 friday –– 30.09.2016 friday 12 noon
  21.10.2016 friday –– 07.10.2016 friday 12 noon
  28.10.2016 friday –– 14.10.2016 friday 12 noon
 November 04.11.2016 friday — 21.10.2016 friday 12 noon
  11.11.2016 friday –– 28.10.2016 friday 12 noon
  18.11.2016 friday –– 04.11.2016 friday 12 noon
  25.11.2016 friday –– 11.11.2016 friday 12 noon
 B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
21st June, 2016.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.