

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
377
377
wxl 1"853 - 2014 ud¾;= 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'03'07
No. 1,853 – FRIDAY , MARCH 07, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 380
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 384
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 28th March, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th
March, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Parts II and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,852 of 28.02.2014 were not published.
(ii) The list of Jurors in Nuwaraeliya Judicial Zone - 2014, has been pubilshed in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala, Tamil and English
Languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
378
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
379
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
380
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
POLONNARUWA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 07th Apr il, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th February, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Polonnaruwa Tamankaduwa Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Tamankaduwa Palata Kaduruwela General, District Secretariat,
Area, Polonnaruwa.
Polonnaruwa Tamankaduwa Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Tamankaduwa Palata Alhilalpura General, District Secretariat,
Area. Polonnaruwa.
03–129
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
BATTICALOA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
381
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th of April, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th February, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretar ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Batticaloa Manmunai South Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
 Eruvil Pattu, of Thuraineelavanai Division and Registrar  General, District Secretariat,
Kaluwanchikudy Marriages (General) of Manmunai Batticaloa.
South and Eruvil Pattu, Division.
03–199
–––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Recruitment of Graduate Buddhist Priests and Priests of
other Religions under the Graduate Trainee Scheme to
Grade 3-1 of the Sri Lanka Teacher Service - 2014
APPLICATIONS are called from Graduate Buddhist Priests/
Priestesses and Priests of other religions who have been undergoing
training or appointed as Development Officers after training, who
are willing to enter the Teacher Service under the School Based
Scheme where vacancies exist, based uner “Planning of Prgrammes
for the implementation of the Budgetary Proposals efficiently”
which had been taken as a Cabinet decision on 05.09.2013 for the
deployment of graduate priests and priests of other religions in
government institutions.
1. Qualifications for recruitment :
1.1 Educational qualifications relevant to the post :
(i) Passed in six (06) Core subjects including Mother
Tongue and Mathematics at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination in not more than two sittings or obtained
a similar qualification approved by the Commissioner
General of Examinations : should have passed in five
(05) Core subjects at the first sitting.
(Core subjects are (i) Religion, (ii) First Language,
(iii) English, (iv) Mathematics, (iv) Aesthetics (Art/
Dancing/Music/Drama and Theatre/Literature (Sinhala/
Tamil/English/Arabic), (vi) Science and Technology, (vii)
Social Studies and History, (viii) Technology Subject
(Agriculture/Business and Account Studies/
Handicraft) ;
and
(ii) Passing in three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
at one sitting ;
and
(iii) Obtained a Degree from a university recognized by the
University Grants Commission or from any other
institution recognized by the University Grants
Commission.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
382
1.2 General Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should possess a good moral character and a proper
mental and physical health condition ;
(iii) Should not be less than 21 or more than 45 years of age
on the date of calling applications on 21.03.2014.
(iv) Should be a Buddhist Priest/Priestess or a Priest of
other religions/a Sister who had been appointed under
the graduate Trainee scheme “Planning of Programmes
for the implementation of the Budgetary Proposals
efficiently” Cabinet Paper No. 11/2260/504/179 - I
dated 07.12.2011, approved by the Cabinet of
Ministers.
2. Method of Recruitment and Service conditions :
2.1 A structured interview will be conducted by the
authority appointed on behalf of those who had applied
according to the advertisement for recruitment for the
service. Those who have not obtained the necessary
qualifications according to this notification will not be
called for the interview. (The marking scheme for the
selection of qualified applicants at the structured
interview is given in Annexure 1)
2.2 To those who are selected from the interview, a list of
National Schools and Provincial schools with vacancies
according to the subject on which qualified to be
appointed would be provided from which 5 schools
closest to the sacred place of residence could be given
in the order of preference.
Note.– Priority will be given for the order of preference
given for each subject by the applicants. When the
preference is more than the number of vacancies
that exist, priority will be given according to the
number of marks obtained at the structured
interview. If many who have scored the same mark
prefer the same school, then priority will be given
according to the distance to the school.
2.3 Only priestesses and sisters will be appointed to girls’
schools.
2.4 A candidate who would be appointed to the Sri Lanka
Teacher Service Grade 3-1 will be subjected to the
common conditions stipulated by the regulations
controlling appointments to the government service
and to the conditions stipulated by the service minute
of the Sri Lanka Teacher Service. The salary scale for
which an appointee is entitled to by this post under
the Public Administration Circular 6/2006(iv) of
24.08.2007 is the salary sector TS-1-2006A. (monthly
Rs. 14,135- 180x9 - 240 x 6 - 330x5 - 400x7 - 645 x13
- Rs. 30,030). You will be placed under step 8 on a
monthly salary of Rs. 15,395.
2.5 These appointments are permanent, pensionable.
2.6 Promotions will be under the directives of the service
minute of the Sri Lanka Teacher Service.
2.7 These appointments are subjected to the transfer
procedures of the transfers of the Sri Lanka Teacher
Service.
3. Method of application :
3.1 Application should comply with the prototype format
provided with this notification and should be prepared
on both sides of an A4 paper and filled by the applicant
him/herself.
3.2 Duly filled applications should be sent by Registered
Post on or before 21.03.2014 addressed to “The
Secretary, Ministry of Education, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla”. It is mandatory to note “Recruitment
of Graduate Priests and Priests of other Religions in
the Graduate Trainee Scheme to the Sri Lanka Teacher
Service Grade 3-1” on the top left land side of the
envelope in which the application is sent.
4. The Ministry will not confirm receiving of applications and it
will not be responsible for any which may have been lost in the
post.
5. Applications submitted after the final date will not be accepted.
6. Any application that does not comply to the prototype format
provided will be rejected without informing.
7. It is compulsory to submit the application certified by the
District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat or the Head of the
Institution under whom attached, mentioned in heading No. 06 of
the application.
8. The Secretary, Ministry of Education is entitled to take the
final decision regarding any aspect that is not covered in by this
notification and also about filling the vacancies fully or partially.
Annexure No. 1 –
Marking scheme at the structured interview.
Total number of marks 50.
Skill in teaching - 50 marks

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
383
(It is necessary to make a presentation of 5 minutes under a
topic in relation to the subject under which appointed, given by the
interview Board).
A
NURA DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla,
On 07th March, 2014.
PROTOTYPE APPLICATION
For office use
M
INISTRY OF EDUCATION
RECRUITMENT OF BUDDHIST PRIESTS AND PRIESTS OF OTHER RELIGIONS
WHO HAD BEEN APPOINTED UNDER THE GRADUATE TRAINEE SCHEME
“PLANNING OF PROGRAMMES FOR THE EFFICIENT IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
BUDGETARY PROPOSALS EFFICIENTLY” NO. 11/2260/504/179 - I
DATED 07.12.2011
Religious subject under which
appointment is sought
1.1 Name with initials denoted at the end of name (In English
capitals) (Eg.– PERERA  A. B.) :––––––––––––.
1.11 Name with initials (In Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
1.2 Name denoted by the initials (In English capitals) :–––––––.
1.2.1 Name denoted by the initials (In Sinhala) :–––––––––.
02. Present addres (In English capitals) :––––––––––––.
2.1 Present address (In Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
2.2 District of permanent residence :––––––––––––.
Province :––––––––––––.
03. Gender (Female - 1,  Male - 0)
(write relevant number inside box)
3.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age on 21.03.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
3.3 National Identity Card Number :
3.4 Present service station :––––––––––––.
3.5 Official address :––––––––––––.
3.6 Date of commencement of training :––––––––––––.
3.7 Post :––––––––––––.
3.8 Date of permanent appointment :––––––––––––.
3.9 Telephone No. :
Mobile :––––––––––––. Official :––––––––––––.
Sacred place :––––––––––––.
3.10 E-mail address :––––––––––––.
04. Details of Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
1. ..................... ............... 5. .................... .............
2. ..................... ............... 6. .................... .............
3. ..................... ............... 7. .................... .............
4. ..................... ............... 8. .................... .............
4.2 G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
1. ..................... ...............
2. ..................... ...............
3. ..................... ...............
4. ................... .. ...............
05. Higher Education Qualifications :
5.1 Degree obtained :––––––––––––.
5.2 University :––––––––––––.
5.3 Date from which degree is valid :––––––––––––.
5.4 Main subject/subjects studied for the degree :
5.5 Medium (degree was obtained) :––––––––––––.
5.6 Any other higher educational qualifications :–––––––––.
I declare that the information provided here are true to my
knowledge. I understand that I may be dismissed from service after
selection if it becomes evident that I am not suitable. I will not be
changing afterwards any of the particulars provided herewith.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
384
06. Applicant's Department Head's Certification :
Forwarding the application of Rev./Priestess/Clergy/Father/Sister/Moulavi ..................................................... ...... informing
that the applicant is serving in this Ministry/Department on permanent/temporary/casual basis and agree/do not agree to release  him/her
if selected to the above mentioned post.
Further, I certify that during the period served in this office, she/he had served efficiently and with good conduct.
–––––––––––––––,
Head of Department or Authorized Officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––––––.
03–226
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
iuqmldr yd wNHka;r fj<| wud;HdxYh
ñkqï tall m%ñ;s yd fiajd fomd¾;fïka;=j
ñkqï tall m%ñ;s yd fiajd fomd¾;fïka;=fõ ñkqï fiajd yd
Wml%u mÍCIl ;k;=rej,g yd ridhkd.dr iyldr ;k;=rej,g
n|jd .ekSfï újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2014
MINISTRY  OF  INTERNAL  TRADE  AND
CO-OPERATIVES
Department of Measurement Units
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF INSPECTORS OF
MEASUREMENT SERVICES DEVICES AND LAB
ASSISTANT IN THE DEPARTMENT OF MEASUREMENT
UNITS, STANDARDS AND SERVICES - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Inspectors of
Measurement Services and Devices of Technical Service Grade III
and Laboratory Assistant Posts in the Department of Measurement
Units Standards and Services, Sri Lanka. Applications prepared
according to the specimen form appended to this notification should
be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of
Examination, Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, Pelawatte, Battaramulla, on
or before 07.04.2014. On the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application “Posts of Inspectors of Measurement
Services and Devices/Posts of Laboratory Assistants” should be
written.
1. Conditions of Employment :
(i) These posts are permanent and pensionable.
Contributions should be made to the Widows/Widowers
and Orphans Pension Fund.
(ii) The appointment will be on Probation for a period of
three years.
(iii) In accordance with the Public Administration Circular
No. 07/2007, Proficiency in Official Languages should be
acquired within the specified period.
2. Salary and Allowances :
Training Grade –
1st Year - A monthly allowance of Rs. 12,920.
2nd Year - A monthly allowance of Rs. 13,040.
Monthly salary scale applicable to the Post :
Post of Inspector of Measurement Services Devices/Laboratory
Assistant MN 3-2006A.
Rs. 15,005 -4 x180 - 6x240 - 11x 320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885.
Should pass the 1st Efficiency Bar before the lapse of 3 years
from recruitment to Grade III of the Post, the 2nd Efficiency
Bar before the lapse of 3 years on appointment to Grade II
and the 3rd Efficiency Bar before the lapse of 5 years on
appointment to Grade I.
3. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Post of Inspector of Measurement Services and Devices:
Should pass the G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination
in three subjects including Combined Mathematics or
Higher Mathematics and Physics from the subjects
Combined Mathematics, Higher Mathematics, Physics,
Chemistry, Bio-Science and Agriculture at one and the
same sitting ; or
According to the Old Syllabus should pass in three
subjects including one subject from Physics, Applied
Mathematics or Pure Mathematics at one and the same
sitting ; and

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
385
Should pass the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in
six subjects with credits in Language, Mathematics, Science
and one other subject at one and the same sitting.
(ii) Post of Laboratory Assistant :
Should pass the G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination
in three subjects including Physics from the subjects
Combined Mathematics, Higher Mathematics, Physics,
Chemistry, Bio-Science and Agriculture at one and the
same sitting ; or
According to the Old Syllabus should pass in three
subjects including Physics at one and the same sitting ;
and
Should pass the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in
six subjects with credits in Language, Mathematics, Science
and one other subject at one and the same sitting.
4. Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be between 18 and 30 years of age as at the closing
date of applications (The upper age limit will not apply
to applicants who are in the Public Service) ;
(iii) Should be a physically sound person with good moral
character.
5. Method of Recruitment.– The candidates who have fulfilled the
above quailfications should pass an Open Competitive Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. After
successful completion of two years theoretical and practical training
candidates are qualified to obtain the "Certificate of Competence"
offered by the Departmental Head and will be appointed to Class III
which is the Recruitment Class.
In order to pass the examination a percentage of 40% of marks or
more should be obtained for each subject. A document of double the
number to be recruited to each and every Post of the results of the
candidates of applicants who have obtained such marks according to
merit will be provided to Director of the Department of Measurement
Units Standard and Services for verification of eligibility. No marks
will be given at the interview. Candidates who have fulfilled the
qualifications and scored the highest marks from the two subjects are
admitted to the Training Grade. Communication of results to all
those who sat the Examination will be done by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
The decision of the Commissioner-General of Examinations with
regard to the conduct of the examination and the release of results is
final.
06. This examination will be conducted in the under-mentioned
Towns. Candidates should select the town closest to their residence
as their Centre of Examination. Candidates should select the town
and Town Number according to the following chart and fill the
application form accordingly.  Permission will not be given to later
change the Town Number applied for.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwara-Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullativu 12
V avuniya 13
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Moneragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Killinochchi 25
07. Written Examination :
y The examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and
Engilsh Languages. Permission will not be given to change
the applied medium later. Candidates should answer all the
question papers of the examination in the media applied
for.
y The examination Question Paper will consist of two papers :
* Intelligence Question Paper :
Time 01 hour. Total marks 100. Whilst this paper
consists of 50 objective questions of multiple choice
and short answers to assess the candidates power of
logical reasoning, ability to think, ability to analyze
and ability to draw sound inferences all questions have
to be answered.
* Technological question paper :
Time - 3 hours. Total marks - 100. It is a question
paper to assess the knowledge in measurement of
physical qualities and practical physics. A knowledge
of the G . C. E. (A/Level) standard is sufficient. All
questions should be answered.
08. Applications and manner of application. – The applicant
should fill in the application form clearly in his/her own handwriting
in the format of Item No. 01 to 08 to be on page 1, Item No. 09 to

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
386
11.2 to be on Page 2, Item No. 11.3 to 17 to be on page 3 and the
remaining items to be on Page 4. Applications not in conformity to
the specimen application form and incomplete applications will be
rejected without notification. It will be useful for the applicant to
retain a photocoppy of the relevant application form. Further, when
preparing the application form it is necessary for the name of the
examination in the heading to be written in English in addition to
Sinhala and Tamil.
09. Applications of officers in the Public Service/Provincial
Council Service/State Corporations should be forwarded through the
Head of the respective Institutes.
10. A paper advertisement will be published by the Department
of Examinations immediately after releasing the Admission Cards to
the candidates. Candidates who do not receive the Admission Card
even after 2 or 3 days of the paper advertisement should inform the
Department of Examinations in accordance with the paper
advertisement. You are hereby required to make inquiries about it
from the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka mentioning the
copy of the application kept by you, copy of the receipt for payment
of fees and the copy of the Registered Postal Article Receipt and
mentioning the name of the examination, applicant's full name,
National Identity Card Number and the address and if the applicant
is residing away from Colombo it would be more helpful if inquiries
are made to the Department of Examinations by Fax to obtain a copy
of the Admission Card quoting your Fax No. and a letter from you
containing the above information.
Whilst the applicants are required to sit the examination at the
relevant Examination Centre, it is necessary to get the signature
certified before the examination and on the very first occasion the
candidate sits for the examination the certified signature of the
Admission Card should be presented to the Supervisor. Candidates
who do not do so will not get permission to sit the examination.
11. Whilst the examination fee for one Post would be Rs. 1,000
the fee for applicants who apply for both examinations would be
Rs. 1,300. This fee should be debited to Account Number
"0000407320" at the Bank of Ceylon, Thimbirigasyaya Branch and
the Bank Receipt should be securely affixed to the relevant cage of
the Application Form. The examination fees paid or a part thereof
will not be refunded under any circumstances. It will be useful to
retain photo copies of the application form and the Bank Receipt.
12. A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the
Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor and for this
purpose only the National Identity Card or a valid passport will be
accepted. Issuing an Admission Card for an Examination to an
applicant does not necessarily constitute of his/her eligibility to sit
for the Examination. All candidates are subjected to the rules and
regulations made by the Commissioner of Examinations regarding
the conduct of the Examination. Candidates who violate these rules
and regulations are liable to punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
13. The authority to take a decision on any matter not covered by
this notice rests on the Director, Department of Measurement Services
Devices and if there were to be any discrepancies in the notices of
Sinhala, Tamil and English medium in such an instance the Sinhala
notice will prevail.
Director.
Department of Measurement Services Devices,
No. 101, Park Road,
Colombo 5,
07th March, 2014.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
For office use
ñkqï tall m%ñ;s yd fiajd fomd¾;fïka;=fõ ñkqï fiajd yd
Wml%u mÍlaIl ;k;=rej,g yd ridhkd.dr iyldr ;k;=rej,g
n|jd .ekSfï újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2014
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF
INSPECTORS OF MEASUREMENT SERVICES DEVICES AND LAB ASSISTANT IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF MEASUREMENT UNITS, STANDARDS AND SERVICES - 2014
Language medium of Examination  :
Sinhala - 2,  Tamil - 3,  English - 4
Post applied for :
(Insert No. 01 for the Post of Inspectors of Measurement Services
Devices, No. 02 for the Post of Laboratory Assistant and No. 3 for
both Posts. (According to 8th paragraph of the Examination Notice).
Town and Town Number where you wish to sit the Examination :
Town Town Number
(According to 6th paragraph of the Examination Notice)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
01.  Name with Initials, in block letters :––––––––––––.
Example - NIMAL, A. B.
02. Name denoted by Initials in block letters :––––––––––––.
03. Full name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
04. Permanent address in English capital letters (Admission Card
will be sent to this address) :––––––––––––.
05. Male/Female (Male - 0,  Female - 1)
Indicate the relevant number in the cage
06. Civil Status (Married - 1,  Unmarried - 2)
Indicate the relevant number in the cage

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
387
07. Ethnic Group :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4, Others - 5)
Indicate the relevant number in the cage
08. National Identity Card Number :
09. ( a) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(b) Age as at the closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
10. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or registration (If by
registration provide details) :––––––––––––.
11. Educational/Professional qualifications :
11.1 G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Year of passing the examination :––––––––––––.
Index Number :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade obtained
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
11.2 G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination
Year of passing the Examination :––––––––––––.
Index Number :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade obtained
1
2
3
4
11.3
The highest examination you have passed
Sinhala
Tamil
English
11.4 Other Educational/Professional Qualifications :
Examination Institute Date
12. Present employment and previous employments, if any :
Post From Upto Annual salary
13. Have you ever been dismissed from Government Service ? (If
so, provide details) :––––––––––––.
14. Were there departmental disciplinary inquiries against you (If
you are still in Government Service) :––––––––––––.
15. Have you ever been convicted for any charge by a Court of
Law ? :––––––––––––.
16. Names, addresses and telephone numbers of two non-relative
referees from whom information about you could be gathered :
1. ........................... 2. ...........................
........................... ...........................
17. Any other relevant information  :––––––––––––.
18. Bank at which examination fees were paid  :––––––––––––.
Receipt No.  :––––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––––.
Please paste firmly the Bank receipt here
19. Applicant's declaration :
I do hereby certify that the information provided herein to the
best of my knowledge are true and that the bank receipt for the
payment of examination fees bearing receipt No. ............... and dated
................ has been affixed hereto. Further, I agree to Act according
to the examination ruels and regulations and if I am found to be
unsuitable according to the conditions of this examination before or
after or whilst the examination is in progress or hereafter I agree to
abide by any decision taken to cancel my examination candidature.
Further, even after my appointment to this post, if any information
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect I agree that I am
liable to instant dismissal from service without payment of any
compensation and likewise I do hereby agree to a bide by all the rules

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
388
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations and to the decisions taken regarding the release of
results.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date  :––––––––––––.
20. If the applicant is in government service, certificate of the Head
of the Department :
I certify that the information provided in Paragraph 07 above are
true/should be amended as follows and that her/his conduct and
work are ................. and that she/he can/cannot be released from the
present post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department Institute.
Post  :––––––––––––.
(Should be authenticated by Official Seal)
Date  :––––––––––––.
03–238
–––––––––––––––––
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by
him with regard to the same. Candidates will be subjected to any
punishment imposed by Disciplinary Authority for violation of
these rules and regulations.
4. Application should conform to the specimen appended hereto.
Applicants should prepare their own applications according to the
specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by registered
post through the respective Heads of Departments to Director
General, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration,
No. 28/10, Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo 07 to reach him on or
before 31st March 2014. Name of the examination should be clearly
indicated in top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the
application is forwarded to Director General of Sri Lanka Institute
of Development Administration. Applications received after the
closing date will be rejected.
5. Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper of
A4 size in such a manner that para Nos. 1.0 to 4.0 appear on the
first page and the remaining on the second page. The application
could be typewritten, but it should be filled in correctly and legibly
by candidate's own handwriting. Application should strictly conform
to the specimen appended and candidates are advised not to send
photocopies of the application. Applications that do not comply
with the specimen and that have not been perfected properly will
be rejected without notice. Please indicate the title of the examination
appearing in the specimen in English language as well, on both
Sinhala and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility of the
candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/
her complies with the specimen given in the examination notice and
further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
Examination Fees.– The candidates appearing for the examination
for the first time need not pay the examination fees. However, for
subsequent sittings, officers should pay Rs. 500 for the whole
examination and further they are required to pay Rs. 300 if they sit
only for one subject. The examination fee should be credited to
Account No. 02323278  operated in the name of Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration at Bank of
Ceylon, Independence Square branch and the receipt obtained should
be affixed to the application. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt). Under no circumstances, the fee will be transferred
in respect of any other examination.
6. Director General, Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration will  issue copies of the time table and admission
cards to all candidates whose applications have been received.
Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that the candidate has fulfilled the quailfications to sit the
examination. Candidates should get their signature on the admission
card attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor of the
examination hall. Candidates will not be allowed to sit the examination
without such admission cards.
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND
 HOME  AFFAIRS
Efficiency  Bar  Examination  for Officers  in  Class  3,
Grade III  of  Sri  Lanka Information  and C ommunication
Technology  Service - 2013
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for officers
in Class 3, Grade III of Sri Lanka Information and Communication
Technology Service will be held in Colombo on 03rd May 2014, by
the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration, under the supervision and direction of Ministry of
Public Administration and Home Affairs.
2. Details of the candidates relevant to this examination are
stipulated in section 7.2 of schedule 5 of Sri Lanka Information and
Communication Technology Service Minute published in Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1,631/20 dated 09.12.2009.
It is not required to sit for this examination if the officers have
passed the Efficiency Bar Examinations with the subjects of
Establishments Code and Financial Regulations relevant to the post
which has been held before absorption to Sri Lanka Information
and Communication Technology Service.
3. This examination will be conducted by the Director General
of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration and the

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
389
If the admission card is not received on or after 25th April 2014
steps should be taken to notify the Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration. You may take action to obtain the
admission card by sending a letter to Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration along with a certified photocopy of
the application form, photocopy of the bank receipt and receipt of
registration. In case of applicants outside Colombo, letter should
contain a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
Further, inquiries made at later occasions by the candidates who
fail to forward above documents will not be entertained.
7. Head of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers
who are issued admissions by the Director General of Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Administration enabling them to sit the
examination. Traveling allowances will not be paid.
Identity of Candidates. – Candidates will be required to prove
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration.
8. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media and the officers shall sit for this examination in the language
medium in which they sat the examination to enter the relevant
service or in an official language. Officers who have joined the
service without facing a competitive examination, shall sit for the
examination in the language medium in which they have studied or
in an official language. The language medium of examination indicated
initially shall not be allowed to change subsequently.
9. The officers may appear for each subject separately or at
different sittings on their preference. However, it is requried to
obtain at least 40% from the total marks allocated for each subject
for a pass.
10. The resutls of the examination will be issued to the candidates
through Heads of Departments by the Director General of Combined
Services once they are issued Director General of Combined Services
by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. Action
will be taken to publish the names of the candidates who pass the
examination in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
11. Scheme of Examination.– The candidates shall sit for a written
test consisting of the following subjects :-
Subject Subject Marks Duration
Number
1. Establishments Code 01 100 01 hour
2. Financial Regulations 02 100 01 hour
11.1 Establishments Code (Subject Number - 01)
It is expected to test knowledge and understanding of the
candidate on procedure rules and provisions of
Establishments Code.
Part I – This consists of questions which require short
answers. The questions should be answered in
the question paper itself. All the questions should
be answered (25 marks).
Part II – This consists of structured essay type questions.
Three questions out of the four questions shall
be answered. (75 marks)
11.2 Financial Regulations (Subject Number - 02)
It is expected to test basic knowledge and understanding
of the candidate on financial regulations and the purposes
of various registeres and log books maintained in pbulic
offices and knowledge of store keeping. This question
paper shall consist of two parts :-
Part I – This consists of questions which require short
answers. The questions should be answered in
the question paper itself. All the questions should
be answered (25 marks).
Part II – This consists of structured essay type questions.
Three questions out of the four questions shall
be answered. (75 marks)
12. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
shall be the final in respect of any matter regarding which provisions
have not been made in this examination notification.
K. V. P. M. J. Gamage,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
20th February of 2014.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
390
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS 3, GRADE III OF SRI LANKA INFORMATION AND
COMMUNICA TION TECHNOLOGY SERVICE - 2013
1.0 1.1 National Identity Card No. :
1.2 Surname of the applicant : (In English block capitals) :
1.3 Initials of the name (In English block capitals) :
1.4 Name in full (In English block capitals) :
1.5 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil)  :–––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Name and address of the office (In block capitals) :
Name
No./road
Postal city
2.2 Address to which the admission card should be sent ( In block capitals) :
Name
No./road
Postal city
2.3 E-mail :
3.0 3.1 Sex : Female - 1                  Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
391
4.0 Post held at present :
4.1 Post :–––––––––––.
4.2 Number of the letter of appointment :–––––––––––.
5.0 Language medium in which you intends to sit for the examination :
Sinhala -  2,   Tamil -  3,   English -  4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage. It is not allowed to change the language medium subsequently)
6.0 Subject/subjects you intend to sit at this occasion (Refer para. 11.0 of the Gazette Notification) :
Serial No. Subject Subject Number
7.0 7.1 Are you appearing for the examination for the first time ? :–––––––––––.
7.2 If not, indicate following particulars regarding the examination fees :
Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Date of payment :–––––––––––.
Branch of Bank of Ceylon :–––––––––––.
It is compulsory to paste the receipt of the examination fee so as not to be detached.
D
ECLARATION OF THE CANDIDATE
I declare that the information given above is true and I am eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned
above. I certify that I have affixed the receipt issued by the bank on the payment of examination fee. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules
and regulations imposed by the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration in respect of conducting t he
examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
CERTIFICATION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... whose details are given here is eligible to sit for this examination in the
language medium mentioned in 5.0.
I hereby certify the signature of the candidate.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and designation of Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
03–194

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
392
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 00 9,340 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 00 950 00
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 00 750 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 00 2,500 00
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 450 00
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 275 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 00 4,360 00
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 00 3,640 00
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 00 1,250 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'07
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2014
393
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2014
MARCH 07.03.2014 Friday — 21.02.2014 Friday 12 noon
14.03.2014 Friday –– 28.02.2014 Friday 12 noon
21.03.2014 Friday –– 07.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
28.03.2014 Friday –– 14.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 04.04.2014 Friday — 21.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
11.04.2014 Friday –– 28.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
17.04.2014 Thursday –– 04.04.2014 Friday 12 noon
25.04.2014 Friday –– 11.04.2014 Friday 12 noon
MAY 02.05.2014 Friday — 17.04.2014 Thursday 12 noon
09.05.2014 Friday –– 25.04.2014 Friday 12 noon
16.05.2014 Friday –– 02.05.2014 Friday 12 noon
23.05.2014 Friday –– 09.05.2014 Friday 12 noon
30.05.2014 Friday –– 16.05.2014 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2014.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.