

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of December 20, 2013
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 23.12.2013)
ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL
BANKERS-SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate Association of Professional Bankers-Sri Lanka
To be presented in Parliament by  Hon. Roshan Ranasinghe,  M.P.  for
Polonnaruwa District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Association of Professional Bankers-Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 007812—75  (12/2013)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL
BANKERS -SRI LANKA
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Association of Professional Bankers - Sri Lanka” has
heretofore been formed  for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and accomplishing all objects and matters connected
with the said Association  according to the rules agreed to by
its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and accomplished the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Association of
Professional Bankers - Sri Lanka  (Incorporation) Act,
No.    of  2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Association of Professional Bankers - Sri Lanka  (hereinafter
referred to as  “the Association”) and such other persons who
shall hereafter be  admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of  the “Association of
Professional Bankers - Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as
the  “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued
in all court with full power and  authority to have and to  use a
common seal and to change or alter the same at its will and pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to assist to maintan and develop a sound banking
structure in Sri Lanka ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Association
of
Professional
Bankers-
Sri Lanka.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Association of Professional Bankers-Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to undertake, promote and facilitate studies in the
field of Banking and Financial Services within or
outside Sri Lanka ;
(c) to offer prizes and scholarships or any other awards
encouraging studies and research in the field of
Banking and Financial Services and allied subjects
etc. ;
(d) to organize and promote research in the field of
Banking and Financial Services and undertake studies
and research projects on contract from government,
private and international agencies or institutions ;
(e) to plan and organize teaching and training
programmes in the field of Banking and Financial
Services ;
(f) to train students and others in research methodology
with the idea of promoting knowledge and awareness
in subjects relevant to Banking and Financial
Services ;
(g) to update the knowledge of its members in the field
of Banking and Financial Services to enhance their
skills and profrssionalism ;
(h) to  create a forum at which the members and any others
could voice, comment, communicate, discuss and
resolve issues of Professional and Academic interests
to its members and to assist in the formulation of
effective policies relating to Banking and Fiancial
Services ;
(i) to promote fellowship and understanding among its
membes to prepare and submit reports on issues
relating to Banking and Financial Services ;30

<!-- page 4 -->

Association of Professional Bankers-Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(j) to promote understanding, co-operation and
friendship with other national and international
bodies, entities and institutions which have a common
or similar interest ;
(k) to affiliate with any National, Regional or
International Associations in fields related to Banking
and Financial Services and with cognate aims ;
(l) to undertake, promote and conduct on its own
initiative or in collaboration with local or foreign
assocaitions such surveys and studies on Banking
and Financial Services in the international sphere and
more particularly in Sri Lanka ;
(m) to promote and safeguard the common interests of
the profession ;
(n) to promote and develop healthy banking practices
and habits among the public by conducting
educational programs ; and
(o) to engage in any other activities connected with or
incidental to the above objects.
4. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts,  matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the powers to enter into agreements or
contracts with any person to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds,
to erect any building or structures and to engage, employ
and dismiss, officers and servants required for the carrying
out of the objects of the Corporation.
30
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Association of Professional Bankers-Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
5. (1)  The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of this Act
and rule that may be made under section 6, vest in a Council
of Management (hereinafter referred to as “the Council”).
(2) The first Council of the Corporation shall consist of
the members of the Council of the Association holding office
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by the votes of not less than
two thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any other
written law, for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of members, admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members and for the
maintaining of a register of members ;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Council or
vacation of or removal from office and the powers,
duties and functions of the office bearers ;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions and
terms and conditions of thw various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Council, the Corporation
and any sub-committee thereof, including the
quorum therefore and the conduct of business
thereat ;
(e) the qualification and disqualification for members
of the Council and the Corporation ; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation for the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
30
Management
of the Affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Association of Professional Bankers-Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under sub-section (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to the rules of the Corporation made under this
section.
7. (1) With effect from the date of commencement of
this Act—
(a) all property, movable or immovable, of the
Association ;
(b) all rights, powers, privileges and interests of the
Association and all the liabilities of the
Association ; and
(c) all books, accounts and documents of the
Association ;
shall vest absolutely in the Corporation.
(2) With effect from the date of commencement of this Act
and without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1)—
(a) all debts due to and subscriptions and fees payable
to the Association shall be paid to the Corporation ;
(b) all liabilities of the Association subsisting on the
day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall be deemed to the
the liabilities of the Corporation ;
(c) all officers and servants of the Association on the
day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be
officers and servants of the Corporation ;
5
10
15
20
25
Vesting of
the property
etc. of the
Association
in the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Association of Professional Bankers-Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
(d) all contracts and agreements entered into for the
purposes of the association and subsisting on the
day immediately preceding date of commencement
of this Act shall be deemed to be contracts and
agreements entered into by the Corporation ;
(e) all actions and legal proceedings instituted by or
against the Association and pending on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be continued and enforced as legal
preceedings instituted by, or against, the
Corporation.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and it
shall consist of all moneys received by way of gift,
testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributions
or fees in cash or kind.
(2) All moneys received shall be deposited in the name of
the Corporation in one or more banks and be invested in any
suitable manner to achieve the objects of the Corporation as
may be decided by the Council.
(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, duties
and functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of the
fund of the  Corporation.
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Council.
(3) In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
5
10
15
20
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 8 -->

Association of Professional Bankers-Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
7
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencemt of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation and all debts due to,
subscriptions and contributions payable to the Association
on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose
of this Act.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
institute or institutes shall be determined by the Council at
or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
two of the office bearers as may be duly authorized by the
Council  who shall sign their names on the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as witness.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Debts due
and payable
to the
Association.
Property
remaning and
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Association of Professional Bankers-Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
13. No member  of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
5
10

<!-- page 10 -->

Association of Professional Bankers-Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
9
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .