

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
299
299
wxl 1"851 - 2014 fmnrjdß 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'02'21
No. 1,851 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 302
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 306
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Note.—   Royal Charity Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of January 31st, 2014.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 14th March, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th
February, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Parts I:III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,850 of 13.02.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
300
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
301
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
302
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st March, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th January, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Attanagalla Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General) of Siyane Korale East and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Egodapotha Gampaha.
North Division
02–500
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
303
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st March, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
28th January, 2014.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Meerigama Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General) of Siyane Korale East and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Debarahara Gampaha.
Division
02–499
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
304
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th March, 2014.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
29th January, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matara Mulatiyana Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General) of Kandabadapattuwa and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Deiyandara Matara.
Division
Matara W eligama Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General) of Weligam Koralaya and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Mirissa Matara.
Division
02–498
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
RATNAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st March, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
06th February, 2014.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
305
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Ratnapura Kuruwita Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Kuruwita Korale General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Ratnapura.
Erathna Division
02–647
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st March, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th January, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Rideegama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Weudawilli Hathpattuwa General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Kurunegala.
Madure Koralaya South Division

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
306
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE - KURUNEGALA DISTRICT
RIDIGAMA DIVISIONAL SECRETARIAT
MADURE KORALE SOUTH - BIRTHS DEATHS
REGISTRATION DIVISION
Schedule - B
Pallekanda Ranamukayatenna
Siyabala ella Walihiriya
Delvitiya Kandegama
Malmeewala Kotagedara
Waldeniya Miliyadda
Pathbare Ihalagama
Kitulwala Kosgolla
Pannagama/Pinnagolla W agama
Delheanawatta W agamakanda
Janthure Kosgoallawatta
Muwandeniya Mahawela
Mayamulla/Makulalliya Akalagamuwa
Walaramba Padeniya
Gallanawatte Ganegoda
Dunumawa Dambagolla
Kitulgolla Miyanadeniya
Welegammadda Walagama
Bambaragahakanda W ewatenna
Ingurugolla Arunodagama
Udamulla Gonogoda
Udakanda Dehigaspitiya
Kalugahatenna Kalaotuwawa
Gallawa Maspotha
Egodamulla Pattalgoda
Iriyagolla Pihibuwa
Kalamuduwawa Malbe
Mirissala Nungamuwa
Tennegammadda Udumulla
Pubukanda
Galbindinaela Kandegedara
Ambatenna Bambaruwa
Kanadeniyawala Ranthatikanda
Walawiwatta Ihala Ogogodapola
Galagama P ahala Ogodapola
Pinnapota Nalavulla
Madurupitiya Nalavullawatta
Espotha Nihiruwa
Ihalagama Paldeniya
Keppetigala Janapadaya Paragoda
Dodanthalawa Ikiriwatta
Polgolla
02–467
MINISTRY  OF  SPORTS
National Institute of Sports Science
DIPLOMA COURSE IN SPORTS SCIENCE - 2014/2015
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified candidates to
follow the Diploma Course in Sports Science conducted in Sinhala
medium by the National Institute of Sports Science of the Ministry
of Sports. The applicants should be between 18-35 years of age.
(The upper age limit for those who are in Government service
should not exceed 45 years).
01. Educational and Other Qualifications :
1.1 Should have passed G. C. E. Ordinary Level Examination
in Six (6) subjects with Three (03) Credits in not more
than two sittings and two of the Six subjects should be
Sinhala or Tamil Language and Arithmetic or Mathematics.
1.2 In addition to the above, the applicants should have
obtained :
(a) First, Second or Third place in National Sports
Festival or First ro second place in an individual
event/First place in a team event of a District Level
Competition of the same sports festival conducted
by the Ministry of Sports ; or
(b) First, Second or Third place in an individual event/
First or Second place in a team event conducted by
a National Sports Association ; or
(c) First place in an individual event or a championship
in a team event of over Sixteen years of age in a
National School Competition ; or
(d) Should have participated in South Asian Games,
Asian Games, Asian Championship competitions,
Commonwealth Games, World Championship games
or Olympic Games as a member of a National Sports
Team ; or
(e) Should have served as sports officer in the Ministry
of Sports or in an institution under the Ministry of
Sports or sports officer in any Provincial Council or
as a teacher in sports under the Ministry of Education
(It is mandatory to fulfill the requirements relating
to note 01) ; or
(f) Should be a Teacher, Instructor/tress in sports or
Physical Education (even as a V olunteer) in an
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
307
institution recognized by the government or a sports
officer attached to the National youth Council with
five (05) years of service and should possess a graded
coaching phase license obtained from a National
Sports Association ; or
(g) Should have successfully completed a preliminary
and a higher level course in sports of not less than
six (06) months duration as an instructor/tress in a
training institute or school of the Police, Armed
Forces or Civil Defense Service.
N. B.:
01. Those who are service under the Ministry of Sports
and Ministry or Education should have completed
one year and five years of service respectively.
(Physical education teachers who have received
training at College of Education should possess two
year experience).
02. Applications which do not conform to the specimen
form will be rejected.
02. Preparation of Application :
2.1 Candidates possessing the necessary qualifications
mentioned above should submit their applications in a
paper of 8"x13 1/2" in size as per specimen application
form appearing at the end of this notice. Applications
should be completed in applicant's own hand writing
and sent by registered post to reach the Director, National
Institute of Sports Science, No. 100/7, Independence
Avenue, Colombo 07 on or before 21st March, 2014.
2.2 "Application for the Course of Diploma in Sports 2014/
2015" should be written at the top left corner of the
envelope containing the application.
2.3 Applicants from the Government Service Provincial
Government Service, Corporations should channel their
applications through the heads of their respective
Departments/Institutions. The applications which do
not conform to this requirement will be rejected.
2.4 A money order to a value of Rs. 500 being examination
fees drawn in favour of the Secretary, Ministry of Sports,
exchangeable at the Cinnamon Gardens Post Office
should be sent along with the application.
03. Selection of candiates.– Out of the applications received all
candidates who have fulfilled required qualifications will be called
for a written examination. The candidates who are successful at the
examination will be called for an interview and a physical fitness
practical examination. Those who are successful will be selected to
follow the course.
04. Details of the course :
4.1 Syllabus contained five sections as follows :
(a) General Theory of training (study of Physical
qualities, Skill Development Techniques and
Strategies, Training Methods, Aspects of Planning,
Principles of training load and tests) and a Viva Voce
examination.
(b) Theory and practice of at least ten major sports.
(c) Specialization in track and Field Athletics.
(d) Within the duration of the Diploma course,
specialization is required in Football, V olleyball and
Netball for male and Female candidates. depending
on the situation in addition to track and field athletics.
(e) Study of general subjects such as Sports Physiology
Sociology, Sports, Administration, Sports Statistics,
Organizing Methods of Sports Festivals, Sports
Medicine, Sports Biochemistry, Sports Nutrition
and Sports Psychology.
4.2 The duration of the course is 12 months.
4.3 Those who are selected to follow the course should pay
a course fee of Rs. 30,000 before commencement of the
course which is not refundable by any means. In the
event the course fee being paid by a cheque, it should be
drawn in favour of the "Secretary, Ministry of Sports"
please note that only those who paid the course fee in
full prior to the commencement of the course will be
enrolled to follow the course.
4.4 The selected candidates are bound to follow the rules
and regulations of the National Institute of Sports
Science.
4.5 Candidates who complete the course successfully will
be awarded with a certificate of "Diploma in Sports
Science".
05. Other conditions :
5.1 The Ministry does not hold responsibility to provide
employment to those who complete the course.
5.2 However if the Ministry requires, those who are
following this course should enter into an agreement
with the Director of the National Institute of Sports
Science, they should do so accordingly.
5.3 Highest qualifications or required qualifications should
be stated in the application and any data/details provided
thereinafter will not be entertained.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
308
5.4 Any matter which is not specified in this notice will be
decided at the discretion of the Director of the National
Institute of Sports Science.
Director,
National Institute of Sports Science.
No. 100/7, Independence Avenue,
Colombo 07,
21st February, 2014.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SPORTS SCIENCE
DIPLOMA IN SPORTS SCIENCE - 2014/2015
01. (i) Full Name : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Full name (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
(iv) National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Private :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––––––.
Telephone : Official :–––––––––––––.
Private :–––––––––––––.
03. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
Age as on 31.12.2013 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
04. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––––.
(by descent or by registration) :–––––––––––––.
05. (i) Sex :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Marital status :–––––––––––––.
06. Whether you are employed or not :
(i) Service Station :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Present Post :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Duration of the service :–––––––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications :
Year Name of Examination Subjects Grade
08. Achievements in sports (Please include your certificates of
highest achievements and special abilities (please attached the
photocopies) :–––––––––––––.
09. (i) According to the gazette notification, under which
qualification category (1.2: a, b, c, d, e, f, g) that you are
eligible to apply for the course :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Give details of qualifications relevant to the category
stated above :–––––––––––––.
10. Any other special remarks :–––––––––––––.
11. No. of the money order obtained after paying Rs. 500 being
examination fees to the Cinnamon Gardens Post Office :
–––––––––––––.
(Money order should be drawn in favour or the 
“Secretary,
Ministry of Sports ” and the receipt should be affrixed to the
application)
12. Whether you are prepared to pay a course fee of Rs. 30,000 if
selected :–––––––––––––.
I certify that the particulars given above are true and correct. I
am aware that if the particulars furnished by me are found to be
false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified and removed from
the course.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant
’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––––.
For Government/Local Government/Corporation Employees only
:
Director,
National Institute of Sports Science :
I recommend herewith the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss
............... employee of ........................... working as ..........................
and I also agree to release him/her from the post he/she holds for the
period of the course in the event of being selected.
––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Name and Designation of the Certifying Officer :–––––––––––––.
Address (confirmation with the rubber frank) :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
02–642
–––––––––––––––
GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  KOTELAWALA  DEFENCE
UNIVERSITY  UNDERGRADUATE  CADETSHIPS
(MALE / FEMALE)
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified Sri Lankans for
Undergraduate Cadetships (Male and Female) at General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University from 02nd February 2014 to 02nd
March, 2014.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
309
2. General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University is empowered to award Degrees by the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto, to those who have successfully completed the Academic and Military
components of studies pertaining to the degree programmes.
3. The Degree programmes applicable to these Officer Cadets will be of five year duration for Medical Stream, four and half year
duration for Engineering Stream, four year duration for Information and Communication Technology, Computer Science and Law Streams
and three year duration for Management and Technical Sciences, Logistic Management and Social Sciences Streams :
3.1. The allocation of Officer Cadets for the three services will be based on the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews,
conducted for selection and the availabiliy of vacancies in each service. Officer Cadets will be comissioned in the Regular
Forces of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force, after successful completion of the degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the academic and military training components of the degree programmes, the Officer Cadets
will be awarded Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBBS), Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) in the disciplines of Engineering,
Information and Communication Technology, Computer Science, Management and Technical Sciences, Logistic Management,
Social Sciences or Bachelor of Laws as applicable.
3.3 All degree programmes are conducted in the medium of English.
3.4 Selected candidates will be allowed to follow one of the following Bachelor Degree Programmes.
(a) Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBBS) – Five year programme (Male and Female) :
For those who have followed Bio Science Stream (Biology, Chemistry and Physics) at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in 2013, passed three (3) subjects and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
(b) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) Engineering in Civil / Mechanical / Mechatronic / Bio-Medical / Electrical and Electronic,
Electronic and Telecommunication / Marine / Aircraft Maintenance and Aeronautical - Four and half years course (Male
only) :
For those who have followed Maths Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) at the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in 2013 or 2012 and passed three (03) subjects and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
(c) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) in Information and Communication Technology - Four Years Programme (Male only) :
For those who have followed any stream at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2013 or 2012 and passed three (03)
subjects and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
(d) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) in Computer Science - Four years programme (Male only) :
For those who have followed Maths Stream (Chemistry, Physics, Combined Mathematics, Further Maths, Information
and Communication Technology) at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2013 or 2012, passed three (03) subjects and are
eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
(e) Bachelor of Law (LLB) – Four years Programme (Male and Female) :
For those who have passed three (3) of the following subjects at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2013 or 2012 and
are eligible to apply for Univeristy admission (YES).
Accountancy Political Science Agricultural Science
Geography Biology Business Studies
Business Statistics History Physics
Chemistry Economics Logic and Scientific Method
Sinhala/Tamil English (Subject No. 73) Latin
German Japanese Christianity
Pali Sanskrit Buddhist Civilization
Arabic Agro T echnology French
Buddhism Chinese Greek and Roman Civilization
Drama and Theater Greek Communication and Media Studies
Hinduism Hindu Civilization Islamism and Islamic Civilization
Mathematics/Combined Mathematics Information and Communication
Technology

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
310
(f) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) – Management and Technical Sciences – Three years programme (Male only) :
For those who have followed Bio, Maths or Commerce (Accountancy, Economics and Statistics) Streams at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2013 or 2012, passed three (03) subjects and are eligible to apply for University
admission (YES).
(g) Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) Logistic Management – Three years programme (Male and Female) :
For those who have followed Bio, Maths or Commerce Streams at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2013 or 2012,
passed three (03) subjects and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
(h) Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) Social Sciences - Three year programme (Male only) :
For those who have followed any stream at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2013 or 2012, passed three (03) subjects
and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a range of common and special subjects pertaining to respective Degree Programmes,
including English, Management, Law, International Studies and Military subjects.
3.6 They are also required to undergo continuous training in Physical Development, Drill, Weapon Training and Leadership,
during their Degree Programmes.
4. Eligibility requirements.– Candidates should :
(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of age on 02nd March, 2014.
(c) be eligible to apply for University admission and have fulfilled the following requirements :
(i) Pass the Common General Test ;
(ii) Have a minimum of a credit (C) pass for Sinhala/Tamil and English Languages at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination for LLB degree programme ;
(iii) Having a minimum of a credit (C) pass for English language at G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination for other degree
programmes.
(d) Satisfy the following minimum physical standards :
Male Female
Height Army 5'6" 5'3"
Navy 5'6" 5'3"
Air Force 5'6" 5'4"
Weight Army 50kg –
Navy 50kg 41kg
Air Force 17<BMI<26 17<BMI<25
Chest 32" (unexpanded) –
Note.– (If a candidate possesses outstanding achievements in sports or other relevant activities, the above physical
standards may be relaxed by the Secretary, Ministry of Defence and Urban Development and Chairman of the Board of
Management, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University).
(e) Confirm to the required medicial standards.– Successful candidates are required to pass a medical test to the satisfaction of
the Secretary, Ministry of Defence and Urban Development and Chairman of the Board of Management, General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University.
(f) Be unmarried. (No Officer Cadet will be permitted to marry whilst under training and until permitted to do so by Service
Regulations.)
5. Conditions of Service.– Selected candidates will be enlisted as Officer Cadets of General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
They will be subjected to laws, regulations and orders under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and
subsequent amendments thereto.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
311
6. At the time of enlistment selected candidates will have to enter into a Bond and an Agreement with the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory period as applicable, after being graduated in the respective degree programmes.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid of approximately Rs. 26,000 per month as pay and allowances. In addition, the following facilities
will be provided free of charge:
(i) Board and lodging ;
(ii) Medical facilities ;
(iii) Uniforms ;
(iv) Batman facilities ;
(v) Sports and recreational facilities.
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be entitled for pay and
allowances appropriate to the rank in accordance with the Service pay codes.
(a) The following allowances are payable monthly :
(i) qualification allowance ;
(ii) ration allowance ;
(iii) disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for married officers only) ;
(iv) uniform up keep allowance.
(b) Other facilities and allowances :
(i) accommodation when ordered to live in ;
(ii) rent allowance ;
(iii) uniform allowance ;
(iv) batman allowance ;
(v) one return duty warrant a month from place of work to home station to those who are ordered to “live in”.
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed by the following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and
conditions of Service :-
(i) The Army/Navy/Air Force pay code.
(ii) Current regulations for officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
(iii) Current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuity Code pubilshed in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Vice Chancellor,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University and or respective Service Commanders.
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for training to any part of Sri Lanka or Abroad.
12. Officer Cadets under training will be required to live in, in accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by the
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University or by the respective Service establishments.
13. Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules and regulations already made or that
may hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Proof of Identity.– Candidates will be required to produce proof as to their identity. Identity cards issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or Post Master General and Driving License issued by the Registrar of Motor V ehicles will be accepted for this
purpose.
15. Applications.– Application forms and the Brochures can be downloaded from the University Website 
www.kdu.ac.lk.
16. Duly completed applications should accompany a receipt obtained by paying Rs. 1,000 (One Thousand Rupees) to any
Branch of the Bank of Ceylon in favour of “The Vice Chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University” to be credited to the
Current Account Number “9405831” of the Bank of Ceylon, Idama Branch, Moratuwa. The applications without basic qualifications and
not duly filled in accordance with the conditions or the information will be rejected. The application fee will not be refunded.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2014
312
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
17. The duly completed applications should be forwarded to "The Registrar, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University,
Ratmalana" under registered cover to reach him on or before 02nd March, 2014.
"Application for Cadetships" and the stream applied, should be written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. Applications
received after the closing date or do not confirm the requirements of this notification will be rejected.
18. Applications from officers in Government Services and Corporations or Statutory Bodies should be forwarded through the
Head of the Department/Corporation/Statutory Bodies and should accompany a certificate to the effect that the Officer would be released
if selected.
19. Applications should be send with certified copies of certificates of Registration of Birth, G . C. E. (O/L), G . C. E. (A/L) result
sheets with a certification for being qualified for University admission( Yes).
20. Preliminary selection will be made from among those candidates who have achieved the required standards in accordance with
the evaluation criterian determined by the Selection Committee appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence University. Candidates who are selected from the first interview will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Board
of Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University. The final selection will be made by the Final Selection Committee
appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
21. Candidates who are selected for interviews and tests will be informed in writing of the venues, times and the dates of such
interviews. Travelling or other expenses for this purpose will not be paid to applicants.
22. Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him a testimonial. Any form of canvassing would be a
disqualification.
23. Receipt of Applications will not be acknowledged. No correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with regard to rejected
applications.
GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA, RWP RSP psc.,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence and Urban Development and
Chairman of the Board of Management
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
02–600