

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 4217 
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 4212
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"153 – 2019 foieïn¾ ui 06 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'12'06
No. 2,153 –  fRiday ,  dEcEmbER 06, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th december, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th december, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
4209 - b 81584- 5,403 (12/2019)
Note.–  appropriation (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of November 29, 2019.
 


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4210
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4211
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4212
Posts – vacant
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
Recruitment of Ex-Servicemen to the Posts of Service of Professions Supplementary to medicine and 
Paramedical Service - 2019
aPPLicatioNS are called from Ex-servicemen for recruitment to the following posts of Service of Professions 
Supplementary to medicine and Paramedical Service of ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine as per the 
approval granted by the letter No. PSc/ESt/06-05/04/2015 dated 31.05.2019 of the Public Service commission. 
2. Academic qualifications and other special qualifications relevant to the post :
Note.– Academic and other qualifications will be considered as per the provisions stated under the Section 95 of the 
chapter Vii of the Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission for the Ex-servicemen who apply for the aforesaid 
posts. 
"Ex-serviceman" is an officer or a Service-man who has left an Armed Service on retirement or on completion of 
his period of employment. 
3. Other General Qualifications :
 (a)  Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 50 years of age as at 18.11.2019.
 (b) Should be fit mentally and physically and a medical certificate should be submitted for that. 
4. Method of application :
 (a) the application should be prepared using a4 size papers in accordance with the specimen form of application 
appended to this notification. (Numbers from 01 to 09 of the application should appear on the first page of the 
paper and numbers from 10 to 15 should appear on the second page of the paper).
 (b) candidate's signature should be attested by a Justice of the peace/commissioner for oaths/an attorney-at-
Law/Notary Public/authorized officer in tri-forces/an officer who holds a Gazetted post in the police service 
or public officer who holds a permanent post in staff grade post in Public Service or Provincial Public Service 
and obtain a consolidated salary more than Rs. 393,684 per annum. 
 (c) the words "Recruitment of Ex-servicemen to the posts of Service of Professions Supplementary to medicine 
and Paramedical Service - 2019" should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope of size 
9"x4" in which the duly completed application should be enclosed and it should be sent to reach the director 
(administration - Establishment), ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine, "Suwasiripaya", 
No. 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, colombo 10 under registered post before 
27.12.2019.
5. Receipt of applications will not be informed and applications which will be received after the closing date will 
be rejected. the applications which are not complying to the instructions and the relevant specimen form given in this 
notification, will be rejected without any notice. 
6. at the interview, applicants should produce the original copies and certified copies of the following documents :
 1. Birth Certificate,
 2. Original Certificates of the results of the G. C. E. (O/L) and G. C. E. (A/L) Examinations, 
 3. Original of the Degree Certificate (A certified copy should also be sent with the application),
 4. National identity card or valid passport or valid driving license,

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4213
 5. A certificate issued by Grama Niladari and counter signed by Divisional Secretary to confirm the residence 
(certificate of the Grama Niladari),
 6. Certificate for legally resignation from the tri-armed forces, 
 7. Diploma Certificate relevant to the post obtained from the Education, Training and Research Unit of the 
ministry of Health.
7. Terms of engagement in the Service.– appointments will be granted considering the number of vacancies existing 
for the time being. accordingly, if the ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine decides to grant permanent 
appointment in the relevant post, action will be taken to appoint the candidates to the class iii of the relevant post based on 
the vacancies relevant to the own post of candidates. in terms of Public administration circular 03/2016, following salary 
scales are applicable to the posts of the Service of Professions Supplementary to medicine and Paramedical Service and 
payments are made in terms of the provisions of Public administration circular 03/2016.
Salary Code Salary Scale
mt-4-2016 Rs. 31,190 - 45x10 - 660x11 - 730 x 10 - 750x10 – Rs. 57,700
mt-5-2016 Rs. 31,635 - 445x10 - 660x11 - 730 x 10 - 750x10 – Rs. 58,145
mt-6-2016 Rs. 32,080 - 445x10 - 660x11 - 730 x 10 - 750x10 – Rs. 58,590
8. The particulars of education and other qualifications in the application should be filled carefully and accurately. 
If the above mentioned certificates are found to be counterfeit after appointment, action will be taken to refer to the Criminal 
investigation department for legal action, and also to cancel the appointment and to dismiss from the training/post, and to 
enter his/her name in the black list of those who are not permitted to be re-employed in the Public Service after taking legal 
action against him/her.
9. Selected candidates should be bound to serve in any part of the island. 
10. All persons selected as above will be subject to all rules and regulations relevant to the public officers, the 
provisions of the Establishments code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies imposed by the ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine, financial Regulations and other regulations and rules and orders that may be 
imposed by the Government from time to time. 
11. if any problem arises regarding to the any matter covered/not covered by this Gazette notification, the decision 
of the Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine will be final. In case of any inconsistency 
between the Sinhala, tamil and English texts, the text in Sinhala shall prevail. 
 Wasantha Perera, 
 Secretary, 
 ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine. 
18th November, 2019.
SPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN 
recruitment of ex-servicemen for the Posts of service of Professions suPPlementary to medicine and 
Paramedical service - 2019
Read the Gazette notification carefully before filling the application 
 * Post applying for :.....................................................
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 * Post applying for :.....................................................
  (in English)
code Number 
relevant to the 
post (according 
to the Gazette 
Notification)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4214
01.   (a) Name with Initials :–––––––––––––.
    (In English Block Capitals) : Ex. : A. B. C. SILV A
   (b) Name in full (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––––.
   (c) Name in full (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. (Attach a copy) :
03. Postal Address : In Sinhala/Tamil In English 
     ............................................. ........................................
     ............................................. ........................................
     ............................................. ........................................
     ............................................. ........................................
04.   (a) Permanent Address : In Sinhala/Tamil In English 
     ............................................. ........................................
     ............................................. ........................................
     ............................................. ........................................
     ............................................. ........................................
   (b) Telephone No. : Mobile :           Fixed :
   (c) District of Residence : In Sinhala/Tamil  :–––––––––––––. In English  :–––––––––––––.
   (d) Are you a permanent resident in this District : Yes/No   :–––––––––––––.
   (e) If "Yes", How long  :–––––––––––––.
05. Date of Birth : Year  :–––––––––––––.  Month  :–––––––––––––.  Date  :–––––––––––––.
 Age as at 18.11.2019 : Years  :–––––––––––––.  Months  :–––––––––––––.  Days  :–––––––––––––.
06. Gender : Female :  Male :  (Mark a P in the relevant cage)
07. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka : Yes :  No :  (Mark a P in the relevant cage)
08. Civil Status : Married :  Single :
09. Date of recruitment to the Armed Service :–––––––––––––.
10. Date of resignation in legally from the Tri-armed Forces :–––––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications :
 G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
 Index No. :–––––––––––––.  Year :–––––––––––––.
Serial No. Subject Grade Serial No. Subject Grade
12. Educational Qualifications :
 G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
 Index No. :–––––––––––––.  Year :–––––––––––––.
Serial No. Subject Grade Serial No. Subject Grade
1 2.
3 4.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4215
13. Have you ever been convicted for any offense in a court of Law :  Yes :  No :
 (mark a P in the relevant cage)
 If so, give particulars :–––––––––––––.
14. Certification of the applicant :
 (a) I certify that I have carefully read and understood the Gazette notification and filled the application subject to all 
the conditions mentioned therein, and the particulars furnished by me in the application are true and correct to the 
best of my knowledge. 
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration or any particulars contained in the application are found to be false, i am liable 
to be disqualified for the post, and if so, found after appointment, I am liable to be dismissed from the service. 
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––––.
15. Attestation of the Applicant's Signature :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss .............................................. who is submitting this application is personally 
known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ...........................
    ––––––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––––. Signature of the Attester. 
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––. Official Frank of the Attester.
Address :–––––––––––––.
02. Educational qualifications and other specific qualifications relevant to the post :
Code 
No.
Designation G. C. E. (O/L) Qualifications G. C. E. (A/L) Qualifications
01 medical Laboratory 
technologist
Should have passed six subjects with four 
credit passes including Sinhala Language/
tamil Language, mathematics, Science at 
the G. c. E. (o/L) examination in one sitting 
and should have passed English Language in 
not more than two sittings.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
Physics, biology, agriculture, combined 
mathematics with a credit Pass for 
chemistry in one sitting at the G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination 
02 Pharmacist Should have passed six subjects with four 
credit passes including Sinhala Language/
tamil Language, mathematics, Science at 
the G. c. E. (o/L) examination in one sitting 
and should have passed English Language in 
not more than two sittings.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
Physics, biology, agriculture, combined 
mathematics with a credit Pass for 
chemistry in one sitting at the G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination
03 Physiotherapist Should have passed six subjects with four 
credit passes including Sinhala Language/
tamil Language, mathematics, Science at 
the G. c. E. (o/L) examination in one sitting 
and should have passed English Language in 
not more than two sittings.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, biology, agriculture, combined 
mathematics with a credit Pass for 
Physics in one sitting at the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4216
Code 
No.
Designation G. C. E. (O/L) Qualifications G. C. E. (A/L) Qualifications
04 occupational 
therapist
Should have passed six subjects with four 
credit passes including Sinhala Language/
tamil Language, mathematics, Science at 
the G. c. E. (o/L) examination in one sitting 
and should have passed English Language in 
not more than two sittings.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, biology, agriculture, combined 
mathematics with a credit Pass for 
Physics in one sitting at the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination
05 Radiographer Should have passed six subjects with four 
credit passes including Sinhala Language/
tamil Language, mathematics, Science at 
the G. c. E. (o/L) examination in one sitting 
and should have passed English Language in 
not more than two sittings.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, biology, agriculture, combined 
mathematics with a credit Pass for 
Physics in one sitting at the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination
06 ophthalmic 
technologist
Should have passed six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit passes 
for Sinhala Language/tamil Language, 
mathematics, Science including any other 
one subject in not more than two sittings at 
the G. c. E. (o/L) examination.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, biology, agriculture with a 
credit Pass for Physics in one sitting at the 
G. c. E. (a/L) Examination
07 dental technician Should have passed six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit passes 
for Sinhala Language/tamil Language, 
mathematics, Science including any other 
one subject in not more than two sittings at 
the G. c. E. (o/L) examination.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
Physics, biology, agriculture, combined 
mathematics with a credit Pass for 
chemistry in one sitting at the G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination
08 School dental 
therapist
Should have passed six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit passes 
for Sinhala Language/tamil Language, 
mathematics, Science including any other 
one subject in not more than two sittings at 
the G. c. E. (o/L) examination.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, Physics, agriculture with a 
credit Pass for biology in one sitting at the 
G. c. E. (a/L) Examination
09 Health Entomology 
Officer
Should have passed six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit passes 
for Sinhala Language/tamil Language, 
mathematics, Science including any other 
one subject in not more than two sittings at 
the G. c. E. (o/L) examination.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, Physics, agriculture with a 
credit Pass for biology in one sitting at the 
G. c. E. (a/L) Examination
10 Prosthetist and 
orthoptist
Should have passed six subjects with credit 
passes for Science, mathematics, English 
and Sinhala/tamil Language in not more 
than two sittings at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination
Should have passed 03 subjects from 
agriculture, combined mathematics, 
chemistry, biology, Physics with a credit 
pass for biology or Physics in one sitting at 
the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination
11 Public Health 
inspector
Should have passed six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit passes 
for Sinhala Language/tamil Language, 
mathematics, Science and any other subject 
in not more than two sittings at the G. c. E. 
(o/L) examination
Should have passed 02 subjects from 
Physics, chemistry, agriculture with a 
credit Pass for biology or combined 
mathematics in one sitting at the G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4217
Code 
No.
Designation G. C. E. (O/L) Qualifications G. C. E. (A/L) Qualifications
12 Electro 
cardiographer 
(EcG Recordist)
Should have passed six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit passes 
for Sinhala Language/tamil Language, 
mathematics, Science and any other subject 
in not more than two sittings at the G. c. E. 
(o/L) examination 
Should have passed Physics and chemistry 
with a credit Pass for biology in one sitting 
at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination
13 Electro Encephalo 
- Grapher (EEG 
Recordist)
Should have passed six subjects including 
English Language with credit passes 
for Sinhala Language/tamil Language, 
mathematics, Science and any other subject 
in not more than two sittings, at the G. c. E. 
(o/L) examination
Should have passed Physics and chemistry 
with a credit Pass for biology in one sitting 
at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination
12–156
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
amENdmENt 
mINISTRy  Of  EDuCATION 
Extending the date of accepting applications for the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in 
Sri Lanka Principals' Service 
"THE closing date of applications for the First and Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Class 3 and Class 
2 of the Sri Lanka Principals' Service published in the Gazette Notification No. 2146 dated 18.10.2019 of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka has been extended up to 23.12.2019".
 m. N. 
ranasinghe,
 Secretary,
 ministry of Education.
12–141
––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION 
Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers of Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service-2018 (2019)
it is hereby notified that the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Sri Lanka Education Administrative 
Service will be held on march 2020 in colombo.
02. the Syllabus and other provisions relating to this examination have been published in the Gazette extra 
Ordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1928/28 and dated 21.08.2015.the Syllabus and 
other provisions are given below for the convenience of candidates.
03. examination Procedure  :
Paper Time Total marks Pass mark
i. Education policy 02 hours 100 40
II. Subject specific studies 02 hours 100 40

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4218
04. examination Authority: Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Syllabus of the examination :
Name of the Paper Syllabus
i. Education Policy this paper has two parts -
(a) General education Policy – this question paper shall test candidates’ knowledge 
on current education policy declaration by the government. it is expected to test 
candidates’ knowledge on the issues that might crop-up in his / her service due to said 
policy changes.  
(b) School curriculum – this paper shall test candidates’ general knowledge on basic 
aims of the school curriculum and its different stages within school system. candidates 
should possess the knowledge on physical and human resources of schools and 
they must be able to present their views critically on curriculum in relation to said 
resources.      
II. Subject Specific  Studies the paper shall test candidates’ creative / critical thinking and problem solving ability.
06. An officer is allowed to appear the subjects relevant to second (II) efficiency bar examination at one sitting or 
in several sittings separately.
07. Language medium of the examination :
 i. Examination would be held in Sinhala, tamil and English languages,
 ii. candidates may appear the examination in any one language of their preference,
 iii. a candidate can answer in the language medium of the competitive examination he/she passed to enter the 
public service or if there was no competitive examination, language medium of the examination through 
which he/she was qualified to enter the public service.
08. if it was revealed that a candidate has appeared the examination in a language medium for which he/she is 
not entitled, his/her candidature shall be cancelled. moreover, he/she shall not be allowed to change the language medium 
applied for the examination later. 
09. application should be prepared and submitted by using both sides of a4 size paper in conformity with the 
specimen from given below. Item 01 to 06 should appear on the first page and the remaining items should appear on second 
page. in Sinhala applications, the name of the examination should be written in English in addition to Sinhala and in tamil 
applications the name of the examination should be written in English in addition to tamil. Relevant information in the 
application should be clearly written in candidate’s own handwriting. applications which are not in conformity with the 
specimen form and those which are incomplete will be rejected without notification. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the application with the candidate. candidates should make sure if the duly completed application is in conformity with the 
specimen form attached herein and the applications that are not in conformity with the attached specimen shall be rejected. 
10. exam Results :
 I. The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations shall be the final on conducting examination 
and releasing results.
 ii. commissioner General of Examinations shall submit the results of all candidates appeared to the 
examination to the Secretary, ministry of Education.  
11. applications should be forwarded under registered cover through relevant department Heads, addressed to 
the commissioner General of Examinations, organization (institutional and foreign Examinations) branch, department of 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4219
Examinations, Sri Lanka. P.o. box-1503, colombo to be received on or before 03  January 2020 Name of the examination 
should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. any application received after the closing date shall be rejected.
12. admissions shall be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations for those applicants with the 
assumption that only those who possess the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification, have applied and submitted 
duly completed applications on or before the closing date of applications, with the signature of applicant, certified by the 
head of department along with the payment receipt obtained for relevant examination fees, if it is required to pay examination 
fees. Immediately after the issuance of admission cards to applicants a newspaper, through SMS and a web notification to 
that effect shall be published by the department of Examinations. if an applicant does not receive the admission card within 
02/ 03 days of the said newspaper notice, it should be notified with following details to the Department of Examinations as 
per the instructions given in the newspaper notice. With such requests, it would be advisable to attach a certified copy of the 
application, the registration receipt and a fax number for sending the admission card in case of the applicant is a resident 
outside colombo. a copy of the said letter of request should be faxed to the department of Examinations on fax No – 011-
2784232.
13. Complaints of those candidates, unable to fulfill the said requirements in Para 12 above shall not be considered. 
14. (i) Each candidate should get his/her signature attested and duly completed admission card should be submitted 
to the supervisor of examination hall on the first day of examination.
 (ii) at the examination hall it is the responsibility of the candidates to produce valid evidence in proof of their 
identity. National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons, a valid SriLankan 
license or a valid passport shall only be accepted.
15. fess for examination will be charged as follows. the relevant examination fee should be paid at any Post 
Office/ sub post office to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt 
obtained for the payment from the post /sub post office should be pasted in the relevant box of the application form.(It is 
advisable to retain a copy of the receipt with you)
 (a) first sitting(fees won’t be levied for the whole examination or part of it)
 (b) thereafter, for each sitting  
  for the whole examination  Rs. 1,200.00
  for one subject  Rs.   600.00
16.  (i) issuance of an admission card should not be considered as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the 
qualifications to appear for the examination.
 (ii) all candidates are subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination. candidates who violate such rules and regulations shall be subject to the punishments given 
by the commissioner General of Examinations. 
17. In a case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification arises, the Sinhala 
text shall be considered the final.
18. The right of making decisions regarding any matter, which has not been covered by this notification, is reserved 
by the Secretary, the ministry of Education.
  m. N. 
ranasinghe,
 Secretary,
 ministry of Education.
ministry of Education,
“isurupaya”
battaramulla,
20th November, 2019.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4220
Application form
 (For office use only)
SEcoNd EfficiENcy baR EXamiNatioN foR officERS of tHE SRi LaNKa EdUcatioN 
admiNiStRatiVE SERVicE – 2018 (2019)
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha ks,OdÍka i|yd jk fojk ld¾hlaIu;d lvbï úNd.h - 2018^2019&
(to be forwarded to commissioner General of the Examinations, Sri Lanka department of Examinations, Pelawatta, 
battaramulla by registered post though the Head of the department)
Language medium for the examination : Sinhala - 2
 tamil    - 3  
 English - 4
  (relevant number to be written within the cage)
01.  I Name in Full (In English block capital) :––––––––––––––.
  E.g. HENaGE doN SHiRaL GayaNtHa GUNaSEKaRa
 II Name indicating last name first and initials of the other names :––––––––––––––.
  (in English block capital )
  E.g. GUNaSEKaRa H.d.S.G
 III Name in Full (in Sinhala / Tamil) :––––––––––––––.
02.  Address :
 i. address to which the admission of the examination of the Examination should be sent (in English block capital) 
:––––––––––––––.
 II. Official Address (in Sinhala / Tamil) :––––––––––––––.
 III. Private Address (in Sinhala / Tamil) :––––––––––––––.
 
03.  National Identity Card No. :
04.  Sex :   Male       - 0
    female   - 1
    (relevant number to be written within the cage)
05.  Telephone No. :   
  
06.  Subjects offered with subject number as indicated in para 03 (a) in the notification to be written clearly.
Subject Subject No:
07.  Date of Birth : Year :    Month :           Date :
08.  Designation :––––––––––––––.
09. Department / Zonal Education Officers / Divisional Education Office / School :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4221
10. State whether you have appeared for this examination previously, in whole or in part and if so state year, subjects and 
medium in which answers were written.
    year  Subject  medium
   .............  ..................  ...................
   .............  ..................  ...................
11.  Details of the receipt :
 (I)  Post Office which has paid the examination fee :––––––––––––––.
 (II) Receipt number and date :––––––––––––––.
 (III) The amount paid :––––––––––––––.
Paste the receipt received after payment here
(a photocopy to be retained by the candidate) only if relevant
12. i hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and correct and that i am entitled to sit this examination 
in the medium indicate in the application. i also agree to abide by all the rules and regulation of the examination. i also 
declare that i will be subject to the rules and regulation to be imposed relating to this examination by the commissioner 
General, Examination.
 
 –––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of candidate. 
Date :––––––––––––––.
commissioner General of Examination
Submitted
i certify that the candidate whose particulars appear as above is eligible to sit examination and that he/she is entitled 
to sit in the language medium indicated by him/her in the application. 
I mention further that the receipt for payment is affixed above (*)
    
 ––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and designation of the  
 Head of Department and official frank 
Date :––––––––––––––.    
  
 (*) to be deleted when payment of fees is not required.  
12–155

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4222
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'12'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2019
4223
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2019
 DECEmbER 06.12.2019 friday — 22.11.2019 friday 12 noon
  13.12.2019 friday –– 29.11.2019 friday 12 noon
  20.12.2019 friday –– 06.12.2019 friday 12 noon
  27.12.2019 friday –– 13.12.2019 friday 12 noon
2020
 JANuARy 03.01.2020 friday — 20.12.2019 friday 12 noon
  09.01.2020 thursday –– 27.12.2019 friday 12 noon
  17.01.2020 friday –– 03.01.2020 friday 12 noon
  24.01.2020 friday –– 09.01.2020 thursday 12 noon
  31.01.2020 friday –– 17.01.2020 friday 12 noon
 fEbRuARy 07.02.2020 friday — 24.01.2020 friday 12 noon
  14.02.2020 friday –– 31.01.2020 friday 12 noon
  20.02.2020 thursday –– 07.02.2020 friday 12 noon
  28.02.2020 friday –– 14.02.2020 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2019.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.