

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
557
557
wxl 1"700 - 2011 wfm%a,a ui 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'04'01
No. 1,700 – FRIDAY, APRIL 01, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 560
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 565
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 08th April, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th
March, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
558
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
559
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
560
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
RA TNAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 03rd May , 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
11th March, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Ratnapura Imbulpe Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Kandiyan) of Kadawatha and Meda   General, District Secretariat,
  Koralaya Division and Births and   Rathnapura
Deaths of Imbulpe
04-57
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
561
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 03rd May , 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
11th March, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Medadumbara Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional
  Kandiyan) of Pathadumbara and Births   Registrar General, District Secretariat,
  and Deaths of Palispattuwa Division   Kandy
04-54
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
562
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 03rd May , 2011.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
11th March, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Ga nga Ihala Koralaya Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  of Ulapane area in Udapalatha   General, District Secretariat,
  Division   Kandy
Kandy Gangawata Koralaya Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  of Tennekumbura area in Four Gravets   General, District Secretariat,
  and Gangawata Division   Kandy
Kandy Panwila Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  of Panwila area in Pathadumbara   General, District Secretariat,
  Division   Kandy
04-56
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 03rd May , 2011.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
11th March, 2011.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
563
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Matara W eligama Post of Registrar (Medical) of Birth District Secretary/Additional
  and Deaths in Weligama Town   Registrar General, District Secretariat
  Division   Matara
04-55
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment to the Pupil Nurses Training – 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with
following qualifications for recruitment to the Pupil Nurses Training
under the Ministry of Health. (Recruitment of Male applicants will
be made based on the requirements of Institutions under the control
of the Ministry.)
01. Educational qualifications :
(a) Passed General Certification of Education (Advanced
Level) Examination Year 2008 and 2009 at one sitting all
the subjects (Except the common test) in the Science Stream
Subjects of Biology/Mathematics and Agricultural Science ;
and
(b) Passed General Certification of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination, in six subjects at not more than two sittings
with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science and English Language ;
Certified photostat copies of the certificates of the above
two examinations should be attached to the application in
support of the Educational Qualifications.
02. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 28 years of
age as at 30.04.2011 ;
(c) Height should be not less than 04 feet 10 inches ;
(d) Should be unmarried ;
(e) Should be physically fit and willing to serve in any part of
the Island ;
(f) Only those applicants who satisfy the above qualifications
will be called for the interview. The required number will
be selected at district level based on the merit order of
marks secured at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Certified copies of the voters list should be submitted in
the interview to prove 03 years residence within the district
applied for by the candidate immediate prior to closing
date of applications. If the name of the applicant is not
available in the voters list, the name of his/her, parents
should be available in the voters list.
In order to confirm the names of the parents, a certified
copy of the certificate of Birth of the applicant should be
submitted in the interview.
03. Method of Application :
(a) Application should be prepared using both sides of a paper
in the size of 8 1/2 x 13 1/2 on the form of specimen
appended to this notice. The section 01 - 09 should appear
on page No. 01. Section 10 page No. 02 and section 11 - 13
page No. 03 as per given in the specimen form of
application.
(b) Application duly perfected should be sent under Registered
Cover to reach the Director (Admin.) 01, Ministry of
Health, No. 385, "Suwasiripaya", Baddegama
Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before
30.04.2011. The words "Recruitment to the pupil Nurses
Training 2011" should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing applications. Applications
received late will be rejected while the department will not
take the responsibility of any loss or delay of applications
in the post.
The signature of the application should be attested by an
officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountant Services/Principal of a
Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law
or by an officer in the public service holding a post with an
initial salary per Annum not less than Rs. 240,360.
(c) Should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 500 in the stamp
cage provided in the application and cancel the stamps by
placing the applicant's signature on it.
04. Scheme of Training :
(a) The selected applicants will be admitted to the nursing
training school as pupil nurses and they should follow the
training course for 03 years.
(b) The trainees at the time of admission to the training will be
provided with rules and regulations in force within the

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
564
school of training. They are bound by these rules and
regulations and also by other rules and regulations which
would be enforced from time to time.
(c) If the trainees fail the prescribed exams during the period
of training or if their work and conduct are found to be
unsatisfactory or if they fail to comply with the conditions
applicable to the exams and leave or if the eligibility
furnished for the recruitment of the training is found to be
false, the training of the recruits could be suspended at any
time without payment of any compensation. The trainees
will not entitle for any type of leave during the training
period and deductions will be made from the monthly
allowance in the proportion with the number of days
absent from training. However it is compulsory to mark
80% of attendance each year to become qualify to sit for
the examination.
(d) The trainees during the period of training in a school nursing
will be paid an allowance as follows :
1st year - Rs. 12,920 (per month)
2nd year - Rs. 13,040 (per month)
3rd year - Rs. 13,160 (per month)
The trainees, who pass the final examination, after
successful completion of training, will be appointed to the
post of staff nurse Grade III by the Director General of
Health Services on the relevant salary scales depending on
the availability of vacancies of the post.
(e) If they abandon or withdraw from the training during the
period of training. He/she will have to refund to the
Department the expenditure incurred for the training and
the payments and allowances paid to him/her during the
training period. Otherwise due action will be taken to
recover the said money.
05. Condition and the agreement of remaining unmarried :
(a) All applicants should be unmarried at the time of submitting
their applications and it is compulsory that they should
remain unmarried, during the period of 03 years training an
affidavit signed before a justice of the peace confirming the
status of being unmarried should be submitted in the
interview.
(b) The pupil nurses at the time of admission to the nurses
training school should enter into an agreement with the
Director General of Health services that they complete
the training successfully and serve the Ministry of Health
Services minimum of 10 years after completion of training.
The Director General of Health Services will decide on
this period from time to time.
06. Term of engagement :
(a) The post of Grade III staff nurse to which the pupil nurses
are appointed on the results of the final examination
conducted at the end of the training is pensionable and
contribution should be made to the widows and widowers
orphans' pension fund.
(b) The appointment to the post of staff nurse Grade III will
be subject to the 03 years probation.
07. Service Conditions :
(a) All the trainees before commencement of the training
school shold undergo a medical examination.
(b) Appointment will be given to the vacancies existing in the
post of nursing officer Grade III on the salary scale of
Rs. 15,620 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 -
Rs. 28,500 in term of MT 7-2006 "A" of the Public
Administrative Circular No. 6/2006(iv).
(c) All the officers in the nursing service are subject to the
provisions in the Establishments Code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, rules and regulations
enforced by the Public Service Commission on Public
Service. Provisions in the Nursing Service Minute, Financial
and the other regulations and government circular
instructions and relevant all amendments to the other rules
and regulations enforced by the Government from time to
time.
(d) The appointing authority reserves the power to dismiss
the officer at any time whenever it is proved that the
qualifications furnished under subsections 01, 02 and 05
are false or incorrect.
(e) The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Health will be
the final in respect of issue arising and of the recruitment
to the training which are not covered by this Gazette
Notification.
Dr. T. R. C. R
UBERU,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
RECRUITMENT TO THE PUPIL NURSES TRAINING – 2011
01. ( a) Name with initials (in English capitals) :––––––––––.
(b) Name in full (in English capitals) :––––––––––.
02. Postal Address (in English) :––––––––––.
03. ( a) Permanent address (In English) :
(b) District (In English) :
04. Date of birth :
Year : 19––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
565
05. Age at 30.04.2011 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
06. Male/Female :  Mark (3) in the relevant cage :
Male
Female
07. Whether citizen of Sri Lanka : Mark (3) in the relevant cage :
Ye s
No
08. National Identity Card No. :
09. Height :
Feet :––––––––––, Inches :––––––––––.
10. ( a) General Certificate of Education (Advance Level)
Examination (Science Stream of subjects)
(Please attach a copy of the mark sheet)
(i) Year :––––––––,  Index No. :–––––––, Z core :––––––––.
Subject Grade For office Subject Grade For office
use only use only
1. 3.
2. 4.
(b) General certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination :
First sitting :
(i) Year and months of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office Subject Grade For office
use only use only
1. Maths 7.
2. Science 8.
3. Sinhala 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
Second sitting :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office Subject Grade For office
use only use only
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
11. Have you been found guilty for any charge by a Court of Law ?
Ye s
No.
If "yes" give details :––––––––––.
12. Certificate of applicant :
(a) I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to my knowledge.
I am also aware that if any particulars contained there in are
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be dismissed from the
service.
Affix stamps to the value Rs. 500 and cancel
same by signing over it.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
13. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant ..................... is personally
known by me and he/she is placed his/her signature in my presence
on ............. day of .............. 2011.
–––––––––––––,
Attester's Signature.
Full name of the Attesting Officer :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
04–05
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURE
Department of Agriculture
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL
SERVICE VACANT IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE - 2011
APPLICATIONS are called from citizens of Sri Lanka who have fulfilled the following qualifications for the Open Competitive Examination
for Recruitment to Grade III of the posts of Agriculture Instructor/Research Assistant/Farm Machinery Instructor/Engineering Fo rman/
Technical Officer/Instructor (F. M. T. C.)/and Inspector of Works/Building Overseer of the Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Department
of Agriculture.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
566
02. The closing date of applications is 30.04.2011 and the age of applicants should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years on the date of closing applications. The maximum age limit will not be applicable to those who are already in the Public Service or
Provincial Public Service.
03. The candidates are requried to fulfill the following Basic Educational Qualifications and Professional Qualifications :
Code No. 03.1 Educational Qualifications 03.2 Prof essional Qualifications
relevant Post G . C. E. (O/L) G . C. E. (A/L)
to the Examination Examination
post
01. Agriculture A pass in G . C. E. (O/L) A pass in G . C. E. (A/L) (i) Two year Agriculture Diploma
Instructor Examination in 06 (six) examination in 03 (three) Certificate obtained from the Schools
subjects with credit passes in science subjects with two of Agriculture at Kundasale,
Language or Literature, science subjects out of Angunakolapelessa, Pelwehera, Bibila,
02. Research Mathematics, Science and Agriculture, Biology, Labuduwa, Wariyapola, Vavuniya,
Assistant any other subject at not more Chemistry, Botany, Physics, Anuradhapura and Karapincha ; or
than two sittings Zoology at one sittings
(ii) Agriculture Diploma Certificate obtaiend
from the Hardi Technical Institution ; or
(iii) Agriculture Diploma Certificate obtaind
from the Acquinas School ; or
(iv) A two year Agriculture Diploma
Certificate offered by a Government
approved Institution ; or
(v) Other qualifications accepted by the
Sri Lanka Technological Services Board
as equivalent to the above qualifications
03. Farm A pass in G . C. E. (O/L) A pass in G . C. E. (A/L) (i) National Diploma in Engineering offered
Machinery Examination in 06 (six) Examination in 03 (three) by the Moratuwa University, Hardi
Instructor subjects with credit passes in science subjects with two Technical Institution ; or
Language or Literature/ science subjects out of Applied (ii) National Diploma in Engineering offered
Mathematics, Science and Maths, Pure Maths, Physics, by the National Apprentice and
04. Egnineering any other subject at not more Chemistry at one sitting Technical Training Authority ; or
Foreman than two sittings
05. Technical (iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering
Officer offered by Ministry of Education and
Higher Education ; or
06. Instructor (iv) Diploma in technology offered by the
(F. M. T. C.) Open University of Sri Lanka ; or
(v) Successful completion of Part I of
Engineering Examination conducted by
the Sri Lanka Engineering Institute ; or
(vi) Any other technological qualifications
accepted by the Sri Lanka Technological
Services Board as equivalent in all respect
to the above qualifications subsequent
to in consultation with the Ministry of
Higher Education and the Institutions
that offered above mentioned Certificates
in Technology.
07. Inspector of A pass in G . C. E. (O/L) A pass in G . C. E. (A/L) (i) Diploma in Civil Engineering offered
Works/ Examination in 06 (six) Examination in 03 (three) by the University of Moratuwa or Hardi
Building subjects with credit passes science subjects with two Technical Institute, Ampara ; or
Overseer in Language or Literature/ science subjects out of Applied
Mathematics, Science and Maths, Pure Maths, Physics, (ii) National Diploma in Engineering (in the
any other subject at not more Chemistry at one sitting field of Civil Engineering) offered by the
than two sittings National Apprentice and Technical
Training Institute ; or

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
567
Code No. 03.1 Educational Qualifications 03.2  Professional Qualifications
relevant Post G . C. E. (O/L) G . C. E. (A/L)
to the Examination Examination
post
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering
(in the field of Civil Engineering) offered
by the Ministry of Education and Higher
Education ;  or
(iv) Diploma in Technology offered by the
Open University of Sri Lanka ;  or
(v) Successful completion of Part I of the
Engineering  Examination (in the field of
Civil Engineering) conducted by the Sri
Lanka Engineering Institute ;  or
(vi) Any other technological qualifications
accepted by the Sri Lanka Technological
Services Board as equivalent in all respect
to the above qualifications subsequent
to in consultation with the Ministry of
Higher Education and the Institutions
that offered above mentioned Certificates
in Technology.
Note.– If those who had obtained a diploma from the Open University of Sri Lanka had passed the foundation course relevant
to the said diploma they can be exempted form the requirement of passing G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
N. B.– Every applicants should have fulfilled the all requirements stipulated in this Gazette notification as at the closing date
of applications.
3.3 Other qualifications.– Every applicants should affirm that he/she
*  is a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
* is of an excellent moral character ;
* is physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island.
04. The appointing Authority reserves the authoring to fill some of or all the vacancies existing in the Department or to unfill those
vacancies. Salary Code MN 03/2006A.
Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 - Rs. 27,885.
The first Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within 04 years from the date of appointment and the Second
Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within 07 years from the date of appointment An officer who has entered the service in a
medium other than official languages should pass G. C. E. (O/L) examination in one of the official languages or of the examination conducted
by the commissioner of official languages within 05 years from the date of appointment the proficiency in second official langu ages
prescribed to the post should be obtained as stipulated in para 1(b) of the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 within 05 years from
the date of appointment by passing the) examination of secondary merit level language course conducted by the commissioner of official
languages failure to obtain the proficiency in official language and pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period would
result in the differmint of increments.
05. Terms of Engagement :
(i) These psots are permanent and Pensionable Contributions will have to be made to the Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers'
and Orphans pension scheme.
(ii) You should serve in any part of the island in which you are called open to serve and priority will be given to fill the
vacancies in the districts of Jaffna, Ampara, Mullaitiva, Vavuniya, Batticaloa, Killinochchi, Mannar, Polonnaruwa,
Monaragala and Anuradhapura.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
568
(iii) You will be subject to the conditions of the Minutes in the Sri Lanka Technological Service published in the Gazette
Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1426/34, January 06th 2006, effective at present
and any other amendments there to and schemes of recruitment.
06. Method of Application :
(a) A specimen of the application for this examination is appended to the end of this notification. The application should
accordingly be prepared only on A4 size paper (21cm x 29cm) using both sides of the paper, so as paragraphs 01 to 04
in the first page, 05 to 07 in the second page and the rest in other pages of the application. The relevant particulars should
be filled by applicant in his own hand writing. The name of the examination appears in the heading of the application
prepared either in Sinhala or Tamil Languase is required to be printed in English Language as well. Applications which are
not in accordance with the specimen given in the out of this notification, not completed every respect will be rejected
without notice. It would be an advantage to keep a photocopy of the application with you. Applicants should check
whether the application prepared by him is in order of the specimen appended to this notification, unless the application
may be rejected.
(b) In case of applying more than one post out of the seven (07) posts given in the para : 03 above, only one application
should be forwarded including all such posts.
(c) The applications should be completed only in the language in which the candidate intends to sit for the examination.
(d) Duly completed applications should be sent by - registered post to Commissioner General of Examinations, Department
of Examinations, P. O. Box, 1503, Palawatte, Battaramulla on or before 30th April, 2011.
(e) The post applied for should clearly be marked on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
(f) Consider Posts Nos. 01 and 02 as 1st category, Posts Nos. 03, 04, 05 and 06 as 2nd category and Post No. 07 as 3rd
category of posts listed in the above para 03. The examination fee for 01 or more posts in the same category is Rs. 400.
The examination fee for posts in two (02) categories or in all three (03) categories is Rs. 800 or Rs. 1,200 respectively. The
receipt (original) obtained on the payment of the above examiantion fee to any Divisional Secretariat or District Secretariat
with the instructions to credit the payment to the Revenue Head 2003.02.13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations
should be affixed in the space provided in the application, keeping a copy of the receipt with you, would be an advantage.
The examination fee will not be refunded in any circumstance and money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
(g) Applications which are not complete in every respect or delayed will be rejected without notice and complaint that an
application has been lost or delayed in the post will not be considered.
(h) The signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government School or a Justice of Peace or Attorney
at Law or an Officer who holds a Staff Grade Post in the Public Service.
(i) Those who are already in the Public Service should forward applications through heads of their respective institutions.
07. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Admission Card.– The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to the candidates whose
applications have been received. A candidate must produce his/her attested admission card to the supervisor of the
Examination Hall. A candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
(b) Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will published a notice in News Papers immediately after issuing admission
cards to the applicants. Any applicant who has not received his/her admission card 02 or 03 days after publishing the
notice in News Papers, should notify to the Department of Examinations as stated in this Notification. It would be an
advantageous to keep certified copies of the application form and the receipt obtained on the payment of the fee, receipt
of registration and in case of applicant out side Colombo the letter of request furnishing a form number to which the
admission card to be sent in hand at the time of notifying to the Department of Examinations.
(c) Travelling expenses or any other allowance will not be paid to candidates in respect of appearing in this examination.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
569
(d) Identification of the Candidate. – A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the
satisfaction of the Supervisor of each subject he offers. For this purpose following documents will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport.
(e) Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence Test – (Time 01 hour, Total marks - 100)
This paper consists of objective questions so as to make an assessment of the candidate’s, power of logical reasoning
and analysis and ability to draw sound inferences.
(ii) T echnological question paper (Time 02 hours, Total marks - 100)
Part I - Objective question paper - Time 1 hour.
Part II – Structured essay type question paper - Time 1 hour.
Post Syllabus : Technological question paper
01. Agriculture Instructor A paper consists of multiple choice and short answer type questions which should be answered in the
question paper itself prepared in relation to the contribution of agriculture to the economic development
of Sri Lanka/Knowledge in climatic zones of Sri Lanka/Soil and plant nutrition/Rice production, Vegetable
production/Fruits production/Crop protection/Importance of soil conservation and various soil
conservation methods/Irrigation methods and water management/Farm mechanization/Bee keeping/
02. Research Assistant Floriculture and landscaping/Protective crop cultivation/Animal husbandry/Agricultural extension/Plants
quarantine, plant protection and its importance/Bio technology/Seed production/Tissue culture.
03. Farm machinery A paper consists of multiple choice and short answer type questions which should be answered in the
Instructor question paper itself designed to examine the candidate's theoretical and practical knowledge in the
different systems of welding and equipments used in these methods/Adjustment of instruments/
04. Engineering Foreman Arrangements for welding/Instruments used in smithing and dentification of metals/Casting of different
shapes/Denification of machineries and equipment in a work shop and proper operation and maintenance
05. Instructor (F. M. T. C.) of such machinery and instruments/plating/cutting/blades/materials properties and simple calculation s/
Motor mechanics/Electrical engineering/Identification of compositions of materials/Simple calculations
06. Technical Officer such as characteristic volume/Force/Moment/Work/Efficiency when forces influence on a material/safety
measures should be used in work shop.
07. Building Overseer/ A paper consists of multiple choice and short answer type questions which should be answered in the
Inspector of Works question paper itself designed to examine the candidate's theoretical and practical knowledge in Surveying
and Leveling/Building materials/Building constructions and preparation of estimate/Structural bending/
Shear force diagrame and services : Electricity/Water/Sanitary.
(f) This examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages. A candidate must answer all the papers of the
examination in one and the same language. The language of the examination given in the application will not be allowed to
change later.
(g) The Commissioner General of Examinations will allow to sit for this Competitive Examination to all applicants who have
paid the examination fee and forwarded applications to reach on or before the date specified in this notification on
predetermination that the applications have only been sent by those who have fulfilled the requirements prescribed in this
Gazette Notification. If apply for more than one post out of 07 posts given in the (e) above, only one application should
be forwarded including all posts applied for. All candidates are subject to the rules imposed by the commissioner General
of Examinations in connection with this examination. A candidate who violates any of these rules is liable to a punishment
at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(h) Place and Date of Examination.– This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations at
Colombo and Kandy on August, 2011 in case of receiving in sufficient applications the examination will only be held in
Colombo. (The examination is given in the application will not be allowed to change later).
Examination Centers Code No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
570
08. Method of Recruitment :
(i) Recruitments will be considered on the merit list prepared according to aggregate of marks of the applicants selected from
those who have secured 40% or more marks in each question paper.
(ii) The qualifications of the applicants will be scrutinized by a Board of Interview appointed by the Director General of
Agriculture based on the merit of marks of the Examination. Subsequently those who have fulfilled the requirements will
be selected for the posts.
(iii) The number of applicants to be called for the interview will be decided by the Director General of Agriculture.
(iv) It is revealed at the interview that a candidate has not fulfilled the qualifications his/her candidature will be cancelled.
(v) If a candidate will pass the examination appearing in it without completing the qualifications prescribed in this Gazette
Notification as at the closing date of applications he/she will not be called for the interview and his/her application will be
rejected without any notice.
(vi) If a candidate will receive an appointment by furnishing false information and counterfeit documents immediately after
revealing such misconduct his/her appointment will be cancelled and legal actions will be taken against him/her.
09. Any matter not provided for in this notification will be decided by the "Appointing Authority". All candidates are bound to
act in conformity with the General Rules of examinations stipulated in this Gazette.
K. N. M
ANKOTTE,
Director General of Agriculture.
Department of Agriculture,
Peradeniya,
15th March, 2011.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(for office use only)
APPLICATION FOR OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO V ACANCIES IN GRADE III OF THE
SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Medium of Examination Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Place of examination preferred
Colombo - 1
Kandy - 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Post applied for Code No.
(Vide para 03 of the Gazette Notification)
01. Name :––––––––––––.
1.1 Name denoting initials at the end :––––––––––––.
(in English capital letters) Eg. SILV A  A. B.
1.2 Full Name  :––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
571
1.3 National Identity Card Number :
02. Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
2.1 In English capital letters :––––––––––––.
2.2 In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission should be sent
(in English capital letters) :––––––––––––.
2.4 Examination centre preferred :
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.5 Residential District :––––––––––––.
03. Gender : Female 1
Male 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
04. Marital status :– Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. Educational qualifications (with the medium) :
(a) G. C. E. (O/L) :
First Sitting Second Sitting
(i) Year and Month : ..................... .......................
(ii) Index Number : ..................... .......................
(iii) Medium : ..................... .......................
(iv) Results :
First Sitting Second Sitting
Subject Grades Subjects Grades
1. ............................ ........................... ............................ ..........................
2. ............................ ........................... ............................ ..........................
3. ............................ ........................... ............................ ..........................
4. ............................ ........................... ............................ ..........................
5. ............................ ........................... ............................ ..........................
6. ............................ ........................... ............................ ..........................
7. ............................ ........................... ............................ ..........................
8. ............................ ........................... ............................ ..........................
9. ............................ ........................... ............................ ..........................
(b) G. C. E. (A/L) :
(i) Year and Month : .....................
(ii) Index Number : .....................
(iii) Medium : .....................
(iv) Results :
Subjects Grades
1. ........................ ............................
2. ........................ ............................
3. ........................ ............................
4. ........................ ............................
06. Professional qualifications :
Name of the Diploma Name of the Year Index No. Date of
Institution passed validity

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
572
07. Divisional/District Secretariat to which the examination fee was paid :––––––––––––.
7.1 Date of payment :––––––––––––.
7.2 No. of the receipt :––––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt of the payment of examination fee so as to be
undetectable (keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
08. I agree to abide by the conditions of this examination :––––––––––––.
09. Declaration of the Applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application is true and accurate. I am also aware that, if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed without  any
compensation if such detection is made after appointment. I hereby declare that I am subject to the rules imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in respect of this examination. I also certify that only one application is submitted for the posts applied by me.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature before me on
.................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Attester.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full name of Attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(Please prove by the official seal)
10. For the applicant who are already in the Public/Provincial Public Service (strike off words inapplicable) :
I hereby certify that the above applicant has/has not fulfilled the qualifications stipulated in this Gazette Notification to sit for this
examination and if he/she is selected for the post he/she can/can't considered to be released from his/her present post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of
Head of Department/Institution.
Date :–––––––––––––.
04–105

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
573
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2011
574
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2011
APRIL 01.04.2011 Friday — 18.03.2011 Friday 12 noon
08.04.2011 Friday –– 25.03.2011 Friday 12 noon
15.04.2011 Friday –– 01.04.2011 Friday 12 noon
21.04.2011 Thursday –– 08.04.2011 Friday 12 noon
29.04.2011 Friday –– 15.04.2011 Friday 12 noon
MAY 06.05.2011 Friday — 21.04.2011 Thursday 12 noon
13.05.2011 Friday –– 29.04.2011 Friday 12 noon
20.05.2011 Friday –– 06.05.2011 Friday 12 noon
27.05.2011 Friday –– 13.05.2011 Friday 12 noon
JUNE 03.06.2011 Friday — 20.05.2011 Friday 12 noon
10.06.2011 Friday –– 27.05.2011 Friday 12 noon
17.06.2011 Friday –– 03.06.2011 Friday 12 noon
24.06.2011 Friday –– 10.06.2011 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.