

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of November 27, 2015
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 30. 11. 2015)
KAHAWILGODA JATHIKA URUMA UYANA
CONCEPT MUSEUM DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Kahawilgoda Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept Museum
Development Fund
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Namal Rajapaksa, M.P. for
Hambantota District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Kahawilgoda Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum Development Fund (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Preamble.
Short title.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE KAHAWILGODA  JATHIKA URUMA UYANA
CONCEPT MUSEUM DEVELOPMENT FUND (INCORPORATION)
WHEREAS a Fund called and known as the “Kahawilgoda
Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept Museum Development Fund”
has heretofore been established for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said Fund, in accordance with the rules agreed to by
its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Fund has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for the public advantage to grant the
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Kahawilgoda Jathika
Uruma Uyana Concept Museum Development Fund
(Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Kahawilgoda Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept Museum
Development Fund” (hereinafter referred to as “the Fund”)
and hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) shall be a body corporate  with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of “ Kahawilgoda
Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept Museum Development Fund”
and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full
power and authority to have and use a common seal and
alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Kahawilgoda
Jathika
Uruma
Uyana
Concept
Museum
Development
Fund.
2—PL 009787—425 (02/2016)

<!-- page 3 -->

Kahawilgoda Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum Development Fund (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
General
objects of the
Fund.
30
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to construct a Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum in Kahawilgoda  Ancient Temple Premises
and to maintain and effect repairs to it when
necessary;
(b) to ensure and facilitate performance of Jathika
Uruma Uyana Concept Museum;
(c) to formulate a scheme to construct buildings
connected with Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum and to plan out a new environment in
consultation with the relevant authorities;
(d) to hold exhibitions, lectures, seminars, to bring out
publications, and to carry out activities in order to
realise the objects of the Corporation;
(e) to help in any activity connected with the
construction of the Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum with the approval and supervision of the
Department of Archaeoloy; and
(f) to maintain and encourage friendly relations with
other Museums in Sri Lanka and abroad.
4. (1) The members of the Corporation shall be
appointed by His Excellency the President of Sri Lanka on
the advice, and recommendation of the Ven. Nayaka Thero
of the Kahavilgoda Purana Viharaya, who shall be the Chief
Patron of the Corporation.
(2) The number of members of the Corporation shall be
not less than ten members and not more than twenty members
inclusive of the following ex-officio members:—
(i) the Director-General of Archaeology;
Membership.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Kahawilgoda Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum Development Fund (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(ii) the Director-General of Central Cultural Fund;
(iii) the Chief Secretary of Southern Provincial Council;
(iv) the District Secretary of Matara; and
(v) the Director-General of the National Physical
Planning Department.
(3) Every member of the Corporation unless he vacates
office earlier by death, resignation, removal or becomes a
Member of Parliament/Provincial Council/Local
Government will hold office for a period of five years from
the date of his appointment.
(4) Every member of the Corporation may resign his office
by a letter addressed in that behalf to the His Excellency the
President of Sri Lanka and such resignaion shall take effect
upon it being accepted by the His Excellency the President
of Sri Lanka.
(5) Any member except ex-officio  member of the
Corporation may be removed from membership after
consulting Nayaka Thero of the Kahawilgoda Purana
Viharaya.
(6) Where any member of the Corporation dies, resings or
is removed from office, the His Excellency the President of
Sri Lanka shall appoint another person on the
recommendation of the Nayaka Thero of the Kahavilgoda
Purana Viharaya, and the person so appointed shall hold
office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.
(7) Any member of the Corporation who vacates office,
by affiliation of time shall be eligible for reappointment.
5. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by the
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Kahawilgoda Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum Development Fund (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
votes of not less than two thirds of the members present and
voting at such meeting to make rules, not inconsistent with
the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may,
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the Corporation shall
have its own fund and all moneys heretofore or hereafter to
be received by way of entrance fees to the Jathika Uruma
Uyana Concept Museum, gifts, bequests, donations,
subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for and on account
of the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the
Corporation in one or more banks as the finance Committee
of Management shall determine.
(2) The Corporation may create any depreciation fund,
reserve or sinking fund for the rehabilitation, improvement
and development of the property of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of  the fund all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
(4) The moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of  its
objects and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred
directly or indirectly, by way of dividends, bonus or otherwise
by way of profit to any member of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the affairs of the
Corporation shall, subject to the rules of the Corporation be
administered by a Committee of Management comprising
Fund of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Kahawilgoda Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum Development Fund (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
of not less than six members consisting of the President,
Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, Assistant Secretaries
and two other members to be elected in accordance with the
rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Committee of Management of the
Corporation will be the Committee of Management of the
Fund holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
8. The Committee of Management shall cause to be
kept a register of members in which every person who on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act is a
member of the Fund and every person thereafter duly
admitted as a member of the Corporation shall have his name
inscribed.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Fund existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall
be paid and discharged by the Corporation, and all debts
due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to, the
Fund on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act.
10. The Corporation shall be capable in Law to take
and hold any property movable or immovable which may
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act,
and subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
11. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to take and hold land or buildings by
purchase,acquisition, rent building or otherwise,
for the purposes of the Corporation;
Debts due by
and payable
to the Fund.
Register of
members.
Corporation
may hold
and dispose
of property
movable and
immovable.
General
powers of the
Corporation,
to acquire
property,
invest Fund
& etc.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

Kahawilgoda Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum Development Fund (Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to recover and take entrance fees, subscriptions,
donations, grants and all kinds of gifts, concessions
for the purposes of the Corporation;
(c) to enter into agreements or contracts with any
person, company or body of persons;
(d) to receive, accept, implement, perform, and
administer the conditions effective to any real or
private property which is held as belonging to or as
any lawful trust with any Corporation, charitable
society, board or any other trust;
(e) to appoint, dismiss or terminate the services of the
officers and employees of the Corporation, and to
pay their salaries allowances and gratuitis as may
be determined by the Corporation; and
(f) to train employees for the benefit of the Corporation.
 12. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year. 
(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilites and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
In this section, “qualified Auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
Audit and
accounts.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Kahawilgoda Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum Development Fund (Incorporation)
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of  Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of  a
member of the Corporation and the Secretary or any other
person duly authorized  by the committee of Management,
who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of
their presence, and such  signing shall be independent of the
signing  of any person as a witness.
14.  No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilites of the Corporation  or
for any other purpose be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due form such member to the Corporation.
15. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains,  after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by their rules prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its or their members. Such institution or
institutions may be determined by the members of the
Corporation at or immediately before the time of dissolution
of the Corporation.
16.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Limitations
of liabilites
of members.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 9 -->

Kahawilgoda Jathika Uruma Uyana Concept
Museum Development Fund (Incorporation)
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .