

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2015
543
wxl 1"918 - 2015 cqks ui 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'06'05
No. 1,918 – FRIDAY , JUNE 05,  2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th June, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th  June
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer ( Acting ).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
By-Laws ... ––
Posts - Vacant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 544
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
543
N.B.— Part  II  of the Gazette No. 1,917 of 29.05.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –05.06.2015
544
Examinations, Results of Examinations, & c.
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  SPORTS OFFICER OF  THE
NORTH   WESTERN   PROVINCIAL   MINISTRY  OF  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE,  SPORTS  AND
 YOUTH  AFFAIRS –  2015
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the permanent residents (male/female) of the North Western Province who have fulfilled the
following qualifications, mentioned this notification,  for recruitment to the post of Sports Officer of the North Western Provincial Ministry
of Indigenous Medicine, Sports and Youth Affairs.
2. Salary Scale .–
2.1 Sports Officer - Grade III
Rs. 14,425- 10x145 - 11x170 - 6x240 -14x320 - Rs.23,665
As per the PA Circular 6/2006 (iv)  – MT 1/2006 (A)
2.2 Trainee Post
Rs. 12,000 monthly
(a)   Sports Officer  – Grade III
Note i —  This Salary Scale is assigned as per the Public Administration Circular 6/2006 (iv). This salary scale is subjected to the revisions
made by the Government from time to time. Officers who are recruited to this post are required to pass the 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination within 03 years from the date of appointment.
Note ii —  In terms of the Public Administration Circular 01/2014 and consequential circulars, competency in an official language/languages
other than the language of recruitment should be obtained within 05 years from the date of appointment.
     3.  Educational, Professional and other Qualifications
3.1 (A)  Educational Qualifications .–
(i) Should have passed 06 subjects in one and the same sitting of the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary
Level) Examination including the English Language with Credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil, Mathematics and 02
other subjects.
(ii) Should have passed 03 subjects (excluding the Common General Test) of the General Certificate of Education
(Advanced Level) Examination.
(iii) Should have successfully followed a Diploma programme not less than one year of the National Institute of
Sprots and passed the same.
(B) Professional Qualifications
(i) Participation in a Sports Event of an International Sports Competition being a member of the National Team.
                     or
(ii) Should have secured 1st, 2nd, 3rd places at national Level or 1, 2 at provincial level in an event at a National Sports
Festival organized by the Ministry of Sports or being placed at 1, 2, 3 at a major national level open competition
organized by the National Sports Unions.
(C) Physical Qualifications .—  Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the North
Western Province and to perform duties of the post and they should pass the practical test to examine the physical
aptitute conducted by the Department of Sports Development and the Sports Medical Unit. This test is comprised
of testing the reaction speet, flexibility, fitness of the stomach, fitness of the arms, agility, standing long jump,
speet and endurance.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2015
545
(D)  Other Qualifications .—
(i) Should be a Sri Lankan Citizen
(ii) Applicant should have an excellent moral character.
(iii) Applicant should not be a member of the clergy.
(iv) Applicant should be a permanent resident of the territory of the North Western Provincial Council for a period of
03 years to the closing date of applications. (Name should be included in the list of registered electors)
(v) If the applicant is serving in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service, he/she should not have been subjected to
any disciplinary order other than a warning within a period of 05 years prior to the closing date of applicants and
he/she should have earned all the salary increments during past 05 years from the closing date of  applications.
(vi) Applicants should have completed all the above qualifications on or before the closing date of applications.
3.2 Applicants should be above 18 years and not more than 35 years. The upper age limit for those who are already serving
in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service is 40 years.
(b)   Trainee Post
When there are not adequate number of applicants for the recruitment to the post of Sports Officer - Grade III,
applicants who have participated in international events as mentioned in the No. i under Professional Qualifications are
allowed to apply for the Trainee Post subject to the condition of fulfilling the requirement of passing one subject of the
GCE (Advanced Level) Examination as mentioned in No. ii under Educational Qualifications and obtaining the
qualifications mentioned under 3.3.1 A iii, within a period of 03 years from the date of appointment.
If the qualifications are not completed within the relevant period, appointing authority is vested with the power of
terminating the appointment. Further, the power to extend the trainee period for a period less than 01 year to fullfill the
required qualifications, on reasonable grounds, on the recommendation of the head of department, is also vested with
the appointing authority.
     4. Conditions of Service .—
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution should be made to the Widow/Widowers and Orphans
Pension Scheme.
(ii) This appointment is subject to a probation period of 03 years.
(iii) Provisions of the Sections 10 to 12 of the Chapter II of the V olume I of the Establishment Code are applicable to
the post as appropriate.
(iv) Every officer should abide by the provisions of the Chapter 4 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws and regulations with regard to the implementation of the State Language
Policy.
(v) The appointees should abide by the regulations of the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations, Departmental Regulations, Provincial Financial Regulations, Provincial
Disciplinary Procedure Code, Regulations of the Government and the North Western Provincial Council already
issued and will be issued from time to time, other than the regulations of the Scheme of Recruitment.
(vi) The appointees are subjected to the transfers. They should be committed to serve in any area of the territory of
the North Western Provincial Council.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –05.06.2015
546
5.  Method of Recruitment .—
Recruitment will be made on the results of an examination conducted by the North Western Provincial Public Service
Commission where the number of applications is higher than the number of vacancies. Out of those who will secure at least
40% marks or above at the examination, thrice of the number of vacancies will be called for an Structured Interview
conducted by the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission, on merit.
Accordingly, those who pass the Physical fitness test conducted by the Institute of Sports out of the applicants who are
selected to the merit list on the total marks obtained at the written examination and the structured interview, will be recruited
to this post.
If the number of applications is equal/less than to the number of vacancies, applicants will be subjected to a physical
aptitude test conducted by the Institute of Sports and those who pass the test will be recruited to the post through an
interview held for the examination of qualifications.
Written Test
Subjects Maximum Pass
Marks
1. IQ Test 100 40%
2. Language ability 100 40%
Syllabus for the Written Test
Subject Syllab us
1. IQ Test A Paper which examines the General Intelligence Logical ability, expression of ideas,
numerical skills and comprehension ability of the applicant.
2. Language ability A paper which exmines the spelling , grammer usage, clear and explicit expression of
thoughts, comprehension of the language phrases, precise writing and essay writing
skills.
(above examination is applicable to the trainee post as well)
Structured Interview
Areas of marking Method of marking maximum Marks
1. Educatinal Qualifications
2. Sports Skills
3. Experience as a Trainer,
Referee & organizer
International Language Certificates shouls be produced
 competency
Personality
Re-scrutiny of the certificates submitted to prove the qualfications and the verification of the accuracy of certificates
will also be done at the structured interview.
*  Method of giving marks for the sports skills is given below in detail
Sports Diploma (duration not less than one year) 05
General Degree 05
Degree in Sports 07
Marks will be given only for the achievements at the sports events
mentioned in the Section 7.2.2.2 of the scheme of recruitment.
Marks will be given for the experience as a Trainer, Referee or
Organizer only for the events at Provincial, Naitonal and International
Level which are mentioned in the Section 7.2.2.2 of the scheme of
recruitment. (Certificates awarded by National or International Sports
Associations should be produced)
District/Provincial Events 05
National Events 07
International Events 10
10
70*
10
05
05

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2015
547
Event Level 1 2 3
Provincial Events 20 15
National Events 45 42.5 40
South Asian Events 55 52.5 50
1st – 2nd or 3rd place at Asian Championship
Commonwealth Championship 65
1st – 2nd or 3rd place at Asian, Commonwealth,
 World, World cup,Olympic 70
6.  Examination Fees .– A sum of Rs. 500 being the examination fee should be paid to the Divisional Secrtariat of the area of permanent
residence or the workplace to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of Secretary. North Western Provincial Council
Public Service Commission and the receipt WPSM/2 obtained from the Divisional Secrtariat should be affixed to the
application. Receipts other than the receipts obtained from the Divisional Secreariat or Money Orders will not be accepted
and it should be noted that the examination fee is non-refundable under any circumstance.
7.  Method of Application :–
7.1 Applications should be prepared in A4 size (21cm x 29cm) paper using the both sides as per the specimen application given
at the end of this notification. Duly filled applications should be sent under registered cover to reach “Secretary, North
Western Provincial Council Public service Commission, Provincial Council Complex, Kurunegala.” The words “Open
Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the post of Sports Officer - 2015” should be clearly indicated on the top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
7.2 Officers who are already serving in the Public or Provincial Public Service should forward their applications through their
Heads of the Department.
7.3 Applications that do not comply with the specimen application form, not accompanied by receipts of payment of
examination fees paid before the due date, which are incomplete and received after the closing date will be rejected without
any notice. Further, it is the responsibility of the applicants to make sure that the completed application form complies with
the specimen. Applicants should bear the responsibility of the losses due to non-completion of the applications accurately.
The receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
8.  Closing date of applications is 6th July, 2015.
9. Applications of the candidates who have not fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in this notification will be rejected. The issuance
of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit for the examination.
Originals of the relevant documents to prove the qualifications should be submitted at the interview. It is compulsory that all the
candidates must fulfill all the relevant requirements on or before the closing date of applications.
10.  If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to , during or after the
examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished false information with knowledge, or if he/she has willfully suppressed any
material fact, he/she shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
11. The North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission reserves the decision of conducting or not conducting this
examination, filling or not filling the vacancies and the number of vacancies. And also, the North Western Provincial Council Public
Service Commission reserves the right of taking decisions pertaining to the matters not provided in this notification.
By order of the North Western Provincial Council Service Commission.
K
ANTHI WEHELLA,
Secretary,
North Western Provincial Council
Public Service Commission.
Provincial Council Public Service Commission (NWP),
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala.
20th May, 2015.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –05.06.2015
548
(No responsibility is held in respect of the incorrect applications prepared by different institutions based on this notificati on and the
facts therein)
Specimen Application form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF SPORTS OFFICER OF THE NORTH
WESTERN PROVINCIAL MINISTRY OF INDIGENOUS MEDICINE, SPORTS AND YOUTH AFFAIRS - 2015
Post Applied
Sports Officer Grade III  -  I
Trainee Post  - 2
Language Medium of examination: Index No.
Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3,  English - 4                      (For official use only)
1. 1.1 Name with Initials at the end :————————————————.
(In Block Letters) Eg.: SILV A  A. B.
1.2 Name in Full (In Block Letters) :————————————————.
1.3 Name in Full (Sinhala/Tamil) :————————————————.
1.4 Permanent Address (In Block Letters) :————————————————.
(admission card will be posted to this address)
1.5 Permanent Address (Sinhala/Tamil):————————————————.
1.6 Telephone No. : Residence : —————————— Mobile :———————
1.7 If you are serving in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service :
Post : ——————————
Date of Appointment :——————————
2.
2.1 Gender :  (Female - 1, Male - 0)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.2 Civil Status : (Single - 1, Married - 2)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.3 National Identity Card No.:
3.  Date of Birth : Year:——————         Month:——————     Date:——————
Age as at 06.07.2015 which is the closing date of application:
Years:————— Months:————— Days:—————

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2015
549
4. Educational and other Qualifications :
. 4.1 G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination : G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Year:————— Index No.:—————    Year:————— Index No.:—————
Subject Grade Sub ject  Grade
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… …………… …………………… ……………
…………………… ……………
…………………… ……………
…………………… ……………
…………………… ……………
4.2 Professional Qualifications :………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(Any other certificate should not be submitted along with the application)
5.   Examination Fee Receipt No:—————.
Date::—————.
Divisional Secretariat to  which the payment was made :—————.
Paste the Receipt inside this cage properly.
6.  Declaration of the Candidate
I, ……………………………………………hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to
the best of my knowledge and belief and the receipt No. …………………dated ……………… issued for the payment of the examination
fee is affixed. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature
prior to, during or after the examination, If it is found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this examinaiton. Further, I agree to
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission with regard to the
conducting of the examination.
———————,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :—————.
Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………………………………is known to me personally and he/she placed his/
her signature before me on ……………………………………and the examination fee has been paid and the receipt is affixed.
Name of the Certifying Officer :—————.
Signature :—————.
Designation and Rubber Stamp :—————.
(This certificate should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/a Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at -Law/
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/an Officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent post
in the Public/Provincial Public Service whose annual combined salary is above Rs. 240,360)

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –05.06.2015
550
Recommendation of the Head of Department for the applicants who are currently serving in the Public Service or Provincial
Public Service.
(Delete unnecessary words)
I, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………………… is working in this Ministry/Department/Institution in the post of
……………………………………and his/her work and conduct are satisfactory, he/she has been/not been dismissed or sent/not sent on
compulsory retirement on ineffciency as a sympathetic alternative, he/she is considered/not considered as a officer who has vacated the post,
and he/she can/cannot be released from the service if he/she is selected for a post on the results of this examination.
———————,
Signature of the Head of Department.
(Place the rubber Stamp)
Date :———————,
06 - 193
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  OF  GRADUATES  T O FILL  THE  V ACANCIES  OF
THE  CLASS  3 GRADE I (A)  OF  SRI LANKA  TEACHERS’  SERVICE  EXISTING  THE  SCHOOLS  OF  THE
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  – 2015
(Sinhala/Tamil/English Medium)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the Graduates who are permanent residents of the North Western Province, who possess the
qualifications mentioned in this notification, for recruitment to the Class 3 Grade I(A) of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service as per the Service
Minute of the Teachers’ Service, in order to fill the vacancies existing in the Schools of the North Western Province.
1. Recruitment will be based on the divisional Secretary Division and the list of Divisional Secretary Divisions where the vacan t
Schools exist, list of vacant subjects, method of application and the required Degree qualifications according to the subject can be
downloaded from the website www.psc.nw.gov.lk. The Serial Number of Divisional Secretary Divisions and the Symbolic
Number of Subjects and medium for which applications are made should be clearly mentioned in the application in order of the
preference.
2. No. of vacancies 424
3. Salary Scale .— Salary is paid under the monthly consolidated salary scale of Rs. 13,410 - 145 x 6 - 180 x 7 - 215 x 2 - Rs.15,970
of the salary category GE-1-2006 which is applicable to the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service in terms of the schedule II of the Public
Administration Circular 06/2006 (XII) is MT 2/2006A, and will be placed in the monthly salary step of Rs. 15,755 on the date
which the applicant assumes duties. This salary scale is subjected to the changes effected by the Government from time to time.
4. Educational and other Qualifications.—
4.1 Educational Qualifications:
1. Should have obtained a Degree in a subject, area relevant to the Teachers appointments, from a University or a
Degree Awarding Institute recognized by the University Grants Commission. The degree should be relevant to
the subjects where vacancies exist as mentioned above. Applicants should apply only if their major subject of the
degree is relevant to the vacancies. Effective date of the degree should be on or before 06.07.2015.
and
II. Should have passed Sinhala Language or Tamil language as a subject at the General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination.
4.2 Physical and Mental fitness .— Every applicant should have the physical and mental fitness required to serve as a
Teacher.
4.3 Age .— Minimum age limit is 18 years and the maximum age limit is 40 years to the closing date of applications.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2015
551
4.4 Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicant  should be a Sri Lankan Citizen by naturalization or by registration,
(ii) Applicants who are sitting for the competitive examination should be permanent residents of the territory of the
North Western Provincial Council for a period of 03 years prior to the closing date of applications. (Permanent
residency should be proved at the interview by the voters list or a residency certificate issued by the Grama
Niladhari endorsed by the Divisional Secretary)
(iii) Should have an excellent moral character and should be physically healthy.
5. Conditions of Service :
(i) Applicants should serve in the schools of the Divisional Secretary Division to which they are appointed initially,
for a period not less than 10 years.
(ii) Selected candidates will be appointed to the Class 3 Grade I(A) of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service subjected to the
general conditions governing the appointments of the Public/Provincial Public Service, conditions stipulated in the
Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service and its amendments, and to the future amendments to the Service
Minute.
(iii) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution should be made to the Widow/Widowers and Orpahns
Pension Scheme.
(iv) The appointees will be subjected to a probation period of 03 years.
(v) Promotions will be give in terms of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service.
6.
6.1 Method of Recruitment .—Recruitment will be made at the Divisional Secretary Division Level, through the written
examination, general interview and the practical test.
6.2 Written Competitive Examination .— This examination will comprise of two question papers.
subject Maximum Marks Pass Mark
Aptitude Test (Duration - 01 hour) 100 40
General Knowledge (Duration - 01 hour) 100 40
Examination Procedure :
(i) This examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums.
(ii) Every applicant should sit for every question paper in one and the same language medium for the examination. That
language medium should be the medium for which the applicant is appointed.
(iii) Applicants are not allowed to change the language medium mentioned in their applicant forms.
(iv) Every applicant should sit for both question papers.
(v) The number of appointees in a term will be decided by the appointing authority.
Syllabus for the Examination :
Subject No. 1 - Aptitude Test
This paper will be prepared with the objective of testing the skills of the applicant relevant to the teaching profession and
reasoning. This paper will comprise of 50 multiple choice and short answer questions. All questions should be answered.
Subject No. 2 - General Knowledge
This question paper will comprise of multiple choice and short answer questions to test the general knowledge with regard to
the teaching field and/or the general knowledge on local educational trends and the general knowledge on educational modernization.
All questions should be answered.
6.3 General Interview :
This interview is conducted to check whether the applicants have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in this
gazette notification and to test the physical and mental fitness of the applicants.
If several applicants have applied to a certain Divisional Secretary Division and have obtained equal marks, preference
will be given to those who reside in that particular division.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –05.06.2015
552
6.4 Practical Test .—
Practical test will be conducted to test the skills of the applicants on the teaching process that is important in the
teaching profession. A presentation of duration not less than five (05) minutes on an identified topic should be done
for the practical test. 25 marks will be given for this test. Marks will not be given for the Power Point presentations.
Index No. Criteria of marking Maximum Pass
at the practical test Marks Marks
01 Objectives and introduction. 05 02
02 Personality and voice control 05 02
03 Clearness of Communication 05 02
04 Time Management 05 02
05 Use of Presentation Techniques
05 02
Total marks 25 10
Objective of the Criteria :
(i) Objectives and the Introduction :
Assessing the skill of explaining the objectives of the lesson and approaching to the lesson.
(ii) Personality and Voice Control .– Having a good personality as a teacher and assessing the skill of having a good
control of voice when teaching.
(iii) Clearness of the Communication .– Assessing the skill of communicating  the facts effectively during teaching
(iv) T ime Management .– Assessing the skill of reaching the desired objective during the given time frame.
(v) Use of Presentation Techniques .– Assessing the skill of using the presentation techniques to reach the desired
objective.
Method of Selection :
(i) Out of the applicants who pass both the subjects at the written examination five times the number of vacancies
existing in the respective Divisional Secretary Divisions will be called for the interview based on their order of merit.
Out of those who have fulfilled the qualifications, thrice the number of vacancies existing in the respective Divisional
Secretary Divisions will be called for the practical test.
(ii) Applicants who have passed the written test and passed the practical test will be placed on order of merit according
to the total marks obtained. Accordingly, they will be placed based the applied Divisional Secretary Division.
(iii) When there are no qualified applicants for a respective Divisional Secretary Division out of the applicants who are
called for the practical test, the interview will be reheld for the applicants who have applied for that respective
Divisional Secretary Division and passed the written examination and the same procedure will be followed for those
applicants.
(iv) When there are no applicants who have applied for a certain Divisional Secretary Division, or when no applicant
applied for that Divisional Secretary Division has passed the written examination or when there are no enough
number of applicants who have passed the written examination, applicants for that particular Divisional Secretary
Division will be recruited by asking the preference of the applicants who have applied to the other Divisional
Secretary Divisions and passed both the written and the practical test, by order of their merit.
7.  Examination Center.— This competitive examination will be conducted in the towns mentioned below.
Town No.
Kurunegala 1
Puttalam 2

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2015
553
8.  Examination Fees .— A sum of Rs. 500 being the examination fee should be paid to the Divisional Secretariat of the area of
permanent residence to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of Secretary, North Western Provincial Council Public
Service Commission and the receipt WPSM/2 obtained from the Divisional Secretariat should be affixed to the application.
Receipts other than the receipts obtained from the Divisional Secretariat or Money Orders will not be accepted and it
should be noted that the examination fee is non-refundable under any circumstance and it will not be allowed to transfer
the examination fees to any other examination.
9. Method of Application :
9.1 Application should be prepared using A4 size (21cm x 29cm) paper by including the,
(i) Paragraphs from No. 01 to No. 03 to the first page;
(ii) Paragraph No. 04 and the other paragraphs to the rest of pages.
(iii) Applications that do not comply with the specimen application form, which are incomplete, applications of the
candidates who have not fulfilled the required qualifications will be rejected without notice. Further, the applicants
should check whether the application form complies with the specimen application form. It would be useful to keep
a copy of the completed application with the applicant.
(iv) The subject applied will not be changed under any circumstance and each applicant is allowed to submit only one
application.
(v) Attestation of the Signature of the applicant:
The signature of the applicant in the application form should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/a
Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/an officer
holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent Post in the Public/Provincial Public
Service whose annual combined salary is above Rs. 240,360).
(vi) If an applicant is already serving in the Public/Provincial Public Service, application should be forwarded through the
respective head of Department.
9.2 Duly filled applications should be sent under registered cover to reach the address mentioned below on or before
30.06.2015. Applications received after this date will not be accepted.
“Secretary,
North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission,
Entrance B,
Provincial Council Complex,
Kurunegala.”
The words “Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of Graduates to the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service - 2015"
should be clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
9.3 An admission card will be issued to the applicants who have paid the application fee and submitted the applications on
or before the due date and who have obtained the required qualifications on or before 06.07.2015. Allowing to sit for the
examination should not be considered as an acceptance of the qualification requirement. Candidature will be terminated
if an applicant is fount to be ineligible at the interview.
Once the admission cards are issued, a notification will be published in the website of the North Western
Provincial Council Public Service Commission (www.psc.nw.gov.lk). In case the admission for the examination is not
received at least after 02 or 03 days after publishing the notice in the website, it should be notified immediately to the
“Secretary, North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission, Provincial Council Complex, Kurunegala”
along with the following details.
(i) Name of the Examination;
(ii) Full name of the Applicant and the Address;.
(iiii) Address to which the application was sent, registered number, post office and the date.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –05.06.2015
554
10. Identity of the applicants .— Every applicant should prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction
of the supervisor of the examination hall. For this purpose,
(1) the National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of persons or
(2) a valid Passport will be accepted.
11. Penalty for False Information .— Applications should be filled with due consideration providing accurate information. If a
candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the
examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished false information with knowledge he/she shall be liable for dismissa l
from the Public Service. Issuance of an admission card is not an acceptance of the qualifications of the applicant to sit for t he
examination.
12. The North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission reserves the decision of conducting or not conducting this
examination, filling or not filling the vacancies and the number of vacancies. And also, the North Western Provincial Council
Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking decisions pertaining to the matters not provided in this notification.
By Order of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission,
K
ANTHI WEHELLA,
Secretary,
North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission.
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala.
21st May, 2015.
Specimen Application Form
For Official Use
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF GRADUATES TO FILL THE VACANCIES OF THE
CLASS 3 GRADE I(A) OF SRI LANKA TEACHERS’ SERVICE EXISTING THE SCHOOLS OF THE NORTH WESTERN
PROVINCE - 2015
(Sinhala/Tamil/English Medium)
Town of the Examination : Town No. :
(fill according to the para 07 of the notification)
Language Medium of Examination
Sinhala-2, Tamil-3, English-4
(Indicate the relevant number inside the cage)
Preference Serial No. of Divisional Secretary Symbolic No. of Subject
Division applied and medium applied
1
2
3
(Complete according to the para. 01 of the notification)

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2015
555
1. 1.1 Name with Initials at the end :————————————————.
(In Block Letters) Eg.: SILV A  A. B.
1.2 Name denoted by the initials  (In Block Letters) :————————————————.
2. 2.1 Present  Address (In Block Letters) :————————————————.
(admission card will be posted to this address)
2.2 Present Address (Sinhala/Tamil):————————————————.
2.3 Divisional Secretary Division of Residence :——————————.
2.4 Telephone No. :  ——————————
3. 3.1 National Identity Card No.:
3.2 Date of Birth : Year:——————   Month:—————— Date:——————
3.3 Age as at 06.07.2015 :     Years:—————      Months:————— Days:—————
3.4 Gender (Female - 1, Male - 0)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.5 Civil Status (Single - 1, Married - 2)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
4. 4.1 Details of  the Degree obtained :
4.1.1 Degree :——————————
4.1.2 University:——————————
4.1.3 Major Subject/Subjects :——————————
4.1.4 Effective date of the degree :——————————
4.1.5 Medium of Instruction :——————————
. 4.2 G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Y ear Index No.
First Attempt
Second attempt
Subject Grade (First attempt) Grade (Second attempt)
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –05.06.2015
556
5. Details of the Examination Fee Receipt :
5.1 Divisional Secretariat to which the payment was made:—————————
5.2 Receipt No. and the Date :—————————
5.3 Amount paid:—————————
Paste the Receipt inside this cage properly
6. Declaration of the Candidate
(A) I certify that the informaiton furnished by me in this application is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and
belief. I agree to bear any loss or damage caused as a result of not completing a part of this application or completing the
application inaccurately.
(B) I know that my candidature is liable to be cancelled if it is found that I have furnished false information.I know that I am
liable to be dismissed from the public service if it is found that I have furnished false information, after the appointment.
(C) I certify that the receipt obtained by the Divisional Secretariat after paying the examination fee, is affixed to this
application. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations/
North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission with regard to the conducting of the Examination.
(D) I do not change any information mentioned in this application later.
—————————,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :—————————
7.   Attestation of th signature of the Applicant.
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Mi ss … ……………………………………… is known to me personally
and he/she placed his/her signature before me on ………………………… and the examination fee has bee paid and the
receipt is affixed.
—————————,
Signature of the Certifying officer and the Official Stamp.
Date :—————————
Name in Full of the Certifying Officer :—————————
Designation :—————————
Address :—————————
(Place the rubber stamp)
8.  Recommendation of the Head of Department if the applicant is a Public or Provincial Public Servant.
I forward the application of Mr/Mrs/Miss ………………… He/she is working in this Ministry/Department/Institution as
a permanent/temporary/casual employee and he/she can/cannot be released from the service if he/she is selected for this post.
—————————,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Date :—————————
Designation :—————————
Ministry/Department :—————————
(place the rubber stamp)
06-196

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.06.2015
557
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.)
... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'05
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –05.06.2015
558
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2015
JUNE 05.06.2015 Friday — 22.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
12.06.2015 Friday –– 29.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
19.06.2015 Friday –– 05.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
26.06.2015 Friday –– 12.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
JULY 03.07.2015 Friday — 19.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
10.07.2015 Friday –– 26.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
17.07.2015 Friday –– 03.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
24.07.2015 Friday –– 10.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
30.07.2015 Thursday –– 17.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 07.08.2015 Friday — 24.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
14.08.2015 Friday –– 30.07.2015 Thursday 12 noon
21.08.2015 Friday –– 07.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
28.08.2015 Friday –– 14.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.