

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 05.01.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2052$35 - 2018 ckjdß ui 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'01'05
No. 2052/35 - FRIDAY,  JANUARY  05, 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
CODE  OF CONDUCT FOR CONTESTING  POLITICAL  PARTIES/INDEPENDENT  GROUPS   AND
CANDIDATES  OF  THE  ELECTIONS
THIS Code of Conduct is issued in terms of Section 8(8) of the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981 as amended
by the Parliamentary Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 58 of 2009. The Code is applicable to the period commencing
from the date of notice of nomination and to the date of declaration of the result of any election.
Before the enactment of laws for the recognition of Political Parties, there prevailed political parties in the
society which date back to 1931. Laws regarding the recognition of political parties have been amended at several times
since 1959. Rules and regulations can do little in making the role of political parties more meaningful towards the
advancement of the contemporary society, but the political parties have a greater responsibility in creating a conducive
environment to conduct free and fair elections.
Having considered this responsibility, the Code of Conduct for political parties and candidates was issued by the
then Department of Elections for the first time with the Provincial Councils Elections held in 2012. The secretaries of
political parties, party representatives and representatives of observer organizations have agreed with this Code at the
Committee for Investigation of Election Complaints at all elections held since 2012.
It should be noted that this revised Code issued by the Election Commission is applicable to those who hold
leading position such as leaders and secretaries, candidates, activists and supporters of all political parties contesting at
elections, representatives of the Provincial Council and Local Authorities, all activists of the political parties, supporters
of the candidates, independent group leaders and their candidates.
Therefore, all those who are engaged in the elections are hereby informed to adhere to these codes of conduct.
A. Rule of Law
01. Uphold the citizens’ rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution and other laws of Sri Lanka, assist and
encourage the voter to exercise the franchise to elect people’s representatives at elections and vote at referenda
freely and without any obstruction.
1A   PG  3872 — 157  (01/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 05.01.2018
2A
02. Safeguard the equal rights entitled to the candidates of all political parties and independent groups at all times
in the election process.
03. Respect the rights of all political parties and candidates and their right to educate the voter, while safeguarding
the right of those with opposing views to hold their views and their right to carry out lawful promotional activities.
04. Refrain from obstructing or interfering in any manner with government, semi-government, private or other
institutions established under the law entered in Sri Lanka from carrying out their legitimate activities and
responsibilities.
05. Refrain from obstructing or influencing the institutions and personnel vested with the responsibility of
maintaining law and order in the country from carrying out their legitimate duties.
06. Ensure that the propaganda activities are carried out without violating existing laws and without interfering with
the life of the ordinary citizen.
07. Educate all the candidates and activists on the laws (particularly the sections of the Acts) relating to elections
and advise them to refrain from committing offences, corrupt practices and illegal activities.
08. Refrain from touching or removing of material, equipment and documents assigned to be used during the conduct
of the poll or the counting of votes, without obtaining approval from the relevant authority.
B. General Conduct
01. Refrain from any activity, expression or behavior which could create or aggravate differences, hatred and tension
between Sri Lankans of different religions, languages, races, customs and castes.
02. Limit criticisms of other political parties or independent groups to their policies, programmes and their past
activities and refrain from criticizing the personal life of candidates or making statements or allegations that
are not proved and unsubstantiated against candidates of the same party or other parties.
03. Select candidates who can devote themselves to the future well-being of the citizens of Sri Lanka by fulfilling
the objectives of the constitutional bodies to which they are to be elected, and who conduct their campaigns in
a disciplined and decent manner.
04. Select candidates based on their past conduct and good behavior, respect for the law, non conviction before
courts, dedication to serve the society etc, avoiding persons who use their wealth or social status to the detriment
of society.
05. Submit the declaration of assets and liabilities of candidates at the time of sign over nominations or before the
expiry of 30 days after nomination period.
06. Educate candidates/agents not to smoke or consume liquor or intoxicants inside polling stations or enter polling
stations after consuming liquor.
07. Adhere to the instruction that only those who are permitted shall enter the nomination centers or polling stations
or counting centers or results declaration centres as well as their premises and act in accordance with the
directive not to take weapons to  such places.
08. Candidates to abstain from engaging in prohibited election related activities and prevent his/her supporters
from engaging in such activities.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 05.01.2018
3A
C. Election Propaganda Activities
01. Hold campaign meetings without causing any disruption to the law and order and to the lawful campaign activities
of rival candidates, and maintain election offices according to election laws.
02. Follow election laws in printing election material and distributing handbills, among voters,
In Particular :-
I. Refrain from distributing anonymous handbills without indicating the name of the printer/publisher and
from printing illegal notices, etc.
II. Refrain from using large crowds in the form of rallies or processions, music or displaying posters when
engaged in door to door canvassing or distribution of hand bills and prevent candidates or the close relations
of the candidates from engaging in door-to-door canvassing, if it is prohibited by the law.
03. Refrain from displaying any election campign notices, posters, photographs of paintings with the objective of
promoting the election of a party or an independent group or a candidate, or preventing the election of a rival
party, independent group or candidate in a state owned or private building, residential premises or a vacant land
belonging to the government or a private person or in a public place or road to which the public have access,
such private person being permitted to be exhibited only at the notified offices and within the premises in which
a meeting is conducted on the day of such meeting.
04. Refrain from using lands, buildings or any property owned by the State of Semi-State institutions for election
promotion, except assembly halls or play grounds that are hired under normal conditions.
05. Refrain from using places of religious worship or land or premises belonging to any religious organization for
election promotion.
06. Display posters or flags related to the election or the name and number of the candidate only on the vehicle in
which the candidate travels and refrain from using unregistered vehicles or vehicles with garage/fake numbers
for election promotion.
07. Restrict any decorations or exhibition of election promotion materials to the venue of an election campaign
meeting, ensure that such decorations do not harm the environment and remove all such decorations without
delay after the meeting.
08. Refrain from holding processions, public rallies, motorcades and bicycle rallies as promotional activities during
the election period as they are violations of election laws.
09. Use loudspeakers only at the places permitted, restrict the use of loudspeakers to the time allowed for the
meeting and refrain from using loudspeakers in moving vehicles.
10. Stop all propaganda activities, before 48 hours of the day of poll and refrain from holding musical shows,
advertisements in print/electronic media, during such silent period to promote party or candidates.
11. Refrain from using vehicles, or other State property or any powers and privileges available to a Member of
Parliament, Provincial Councils or Local Authorities to promote the election of a party, independent group or
a candidate.
12. Refrain from using any security personnel, weapons and other  security equipment legally provided to a people’s
representative for his or her protection, for any illegal purpose.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 05.01.2018
4A
13. Use the services of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation and the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation provided,
under election law, to a party or an independent group for election propaganda, according to the guidelines and
conditions imposed by the Election Commission and the Heads of the respective corporations. (This is not
applicable for Provincial Council and Local Authorities elections.)
14. Use free postal facility provided under the election law to send a publication, by political parties  and independent
groups, to every household according to the provisions of the relevant Act and according to the instructions
issued by the Post Master General. (This is not applicable to Provincial Council and Local Authorities elections).
15. Refrain from election promotion activities that disturb the conduct of public examinations including the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Level) and Grade 5 Scholarship Examination at the examination
centers and at their evaluation centers at schools.
16. Refrain from using previous statements/views of a candidate about another party or of  a candidate to promote
or demote a party or a  candidate, if such person objects.
D. Poll Day
01. Refrain from engaging in any prohibited activity, especially, canvassing for votes etc., mentioned in the election
law, within a radius of 500 meters of a polling station on the poll day.
02. Refrain from obstructing voters who come to the polling station and voters casting their vote at the polling
station, from influencing the voter and from preventing the voters casting their vote freely and in secret.
03. Refrain from intimidating or causing bodily harm to voters, polling agents, candidates and election observers
and their families or causing damage to their houses or properties, from interrupting voters on their arrival at or
departure from the polling station, and from chasing away polling agents from the polling station.
04. Ensure that only those permitted (Secretary of contesting political party, candidates and their polling agents)
enter the polling station after they prove their identity, while refraining from bringing security personnel or
journalists, or photographers into the polling station.
05. Refrain from committing or promoting of any corrupt practice or offences (such as stuffing of ballot boxes at
the polling station, breaking into polling stations, impresonation or other corrupt practices or offences.)
06. Refrain from illegal transport of voters to polling stations.
07. Ensure that polling agents co-operate with the poll staff at the polling station and that the agents do not create
any disturbance at the polling station.
08. Refrain from interfering with election observers approved by the Election Commission in engaging in
observations and support their activities.
09. Refrain from prohibited actions such as videoing, using mobile phones, etc., in the premises of the polling
stations.
Please note that above codes are applicable for the day of postal voting as well.
E. Count of Votes and Preference (including Postal Votes), and Declaration of Results
01. Make the counting agents aware of the procedure regarding the counting of votes and preference (including the
counting of postal votes) and the procedure of making complaints.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 05.01.2018
5A
02. Ensure that the Agents at the Centre for Counting V otes and at the Centre for Declaration of Results observe and
follow the administrative arrangement at the centre provided by the Election Commission and the Returning
Officer.
03. Ensure that Government Ministers, Ministers of Provincial Councils, Members of Provincial Councils and
Local Authorities and other politicians are prevented from entering Counting Centers/halls unless they are duly
appointed as Counting Agents or are candidates.
04. Prevent politicians appointed as counting agents or declaration centre agents from being accompanied by security
personnel of any politician, with or without weapons, into the counting halls of the Centre for Results Declaration
and refrain from bringing unauthorized persons to the premises of the counting halls/centre for Results
Declaration.
F. Hate Speech or Speech prejudicial to national harmony
01. Abstain from hate speech of any form ; that is speech that threatens, or insults communities or social groups,
especially women, persons with special needs or disabled, those of different sexual orientation and other religious
or ethnic groups.
02. Ensure that all those engaged in political activities refrain from hate speech at all times, especially during the
period commencing from the first day of the nomination period at any election and ending on the day following
the date of the poll at such election.
03. Hate speech is indentified as an offence and therefore those who make hate speech should be reported.
04. Abstain from making statements or displaying an image that disturbs the harmony and mutual trust among the
ethnic and religious speech.
05. Abstain from making any statement that may harm or prejudice the dignity of ethnic or religious groups and
individuals  and should abstain from using such statements at propaganda.
06. Abstain from making statements or from any action that could be deemed to be prejudicial  to or discriminative
of any person or group based on religious, ethnic, linguistic, caste, or gender differences.
07. Abstain from making statements or engaging in any action that is contemptuous or abusive of women based on
their physical appearance. Though women are specifically referred to here those who are engaged in politics
should refrain from such statements or action since they are relevant to every citizen.
08. Abstain from making statements or engaging in any action that is contemptuous or abusive of any deformity or
disability of any person.
G . Other important Matters
01. Present to the voters as a candidate of a recognized political party, the Statement of Policies (Manifesto) of
thier party and the manner in which it would be implemented within a specified period and submit copies of
same to the Election Commission and  through the Commission to the Department of Archives.
02. Abstain from using state property, official vehicles or offices for election promotion and refrain from promotion
activities like canvassing, distribution of handbills, exhibition of display boards or notices in government offices,
schools etc. or within the premises of such institution.
03. Abstain from engaging  in election promotion making use of a person’s official duties.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 05.01.2018
6A
04. Refrain from using government owned aircraft or any other vehicles without payment.
05. Ensure that public buildings, play grounds, and government circuit bungalows are used after payment of fees and
charges and allow others to use them in the same manner.
06. Refrain from publishing political newsletters, articles or advertising supplements etc., at the expense of the
government or government institutions.
07. Refrain from inviting voters or state officers individually  or in groups to private or official residences and
from entertaining them during the period of the election.
08. Refrain from making promotion of financial assistance, laying foundation stones for projects or proposed
projects, promising to provide roads, water and electricity services, and making hasty appointments to posts
outside the approved scheme of recruitments with the aim of attarcting votes.
09. Refrain from obstructing investigations carried out by law enforcement authorities, in regard to violation of
election laws, obstructions to inquiries, into corrupt practices and election offences.
10. Refrain from making use of the print or electronic media during the period of the election to make false and
unsubstantiated allegation about rival parties and their activits and denying the aggrieved parties the right to
reply.
11. Respond to criticism or allegations made about parties and politicians without using propaganda in any from
(without using untrustworthy promotional information) by non-aggressive and lawful means and abstain from
using force in retaliation.
12. Refrain from utilizing security personnel provided for personal security unofficially for political propaganda
work and engaging them to harm rivals, condemn such abusive activities openly.
13. Openly condemn any political party or political organization illegally using armed personnel and inform such
instances to relevant authorities.
14. Abstain from participating as a candidate or a leading activist of a political party at state ceremonies held during
the period of election and refrain from using such ceremonies for election promotion of a party or a candidate.
15. Refrain from involving directly or indirectly in political motivated recruitments, appointments, promotions
and transfer.
16. Ensure that the political parties and candidates do not gain any political advantage from processions, carnivals
or exhibitions or sports competitions etc. organized by the government or oganized with government’s patronage.
17. Abstain from using educational seminars conducted for public examinations and scholarship examination to
promote parties/ candidates.
Other Matters
1. Abstain from using or otherwise abusing the National Anthem, National Flag, religious symbols, religious
flags, paintings or photographs of founders of religions or religious leaders through publication or broadcast to
promote or demote the candidature of a candidate or parties/groups.
2. Abstain from exhibiting them at promotional rallies, meetings of parties/groups or candidates or on the notices
and display boards. Refrain from using photographs or paintings of public officers, in any manner, to promote
parties/candidates.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 05.01.2018
7A
3. Abstain from government owned places which are ordinarily given for the promotion activities of political
parties/independent groups exclusively for the propaganda activities of one single party or a candidate and give
equal opportunity to other parties/groups/candidates to reserve such places.
4. To minimize the problems arising with regard to the reservation of playgrounds or halls owned by Local
Authorities, all politicians shall follow the instructions of the District Committee headed by the Returning
Officer.
5. Abstain from uttering at any religious assembly any words for the purpose of influencing the result of an
election or inducing any elector to vote or refrain from voting for a candidate of any recognized political party
or independent group at such election.
6. Abstain  from distributing and displaying at any religious assembly, any handbill, placard, poster, drawing, notice,
photograph of a candidate, symbol, sign, flag or banner ; holding or causing to be held any public meeting at a
place of worship for the purpose of promoting the election, or the election campaign of a candidate of any
recognized political party or independent group at such election.
7. As a member or official of a religious order or organization, abstain from :
i. denying, or threatening to deny, any member or adherent of that order or organization, or to any member
of the family or such member or adherent, any spiritual ministration, service or benefit ;
ii. excluding or threatening to exclude, such member or adherent from such order or organization, in order
to induce or compel such member or adherent to vote or refrain from voting for a candidate or for having
voted for a particular candidate.
8. As the employer of any other person, abstain from :
i. terminating or threatening to terminate such employment ; or
ii. denying or threatening to deny to such other person any benefit or service
in order to compel employee to vote in a particular way to punish for having voted in a particular way.
It is expected that candidates contesting at the any Elections and Secretaries of respective political parties,
agents and supporters or candidates, as applicable, act in accordance with the aforesaid code. It is also expected
that the candidates and, as relevant, Secretaries of Political Parties will made suitable arrangements to ensure
that their agents, party members, followers and supporters earnestly observe this Code of Conduct.
MAHINDA D ESHAPRIYA N. J. ABEYESEKERE S. RATNAJEEV AN H. H OOLE
Chairman Member Member
Election Commission Election Commission Election Commission
On this 05th Day of January 2018,
Elections Secretariat,
Sarana Mawatha,
Rajagiriya.
02-139
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.