

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1947$49 - 2016 ckjdß ui 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'01'01
No. 1947/49  -  FRIDAY   JANUARY  01,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CUSTOMS   NOTIFICATION
Customs  Ordinance (Chapter 235)
IN pursuance of the power vested in me by the Section 103B(1) of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235), I, Ravi
Karunanayake, Minister of Finance, do hereby promulgated these regulations for issuance of Non Manipulation Certificate
effective from the date of publication of these regulation in the Government Gazette.
R
AV I K ARUNANAYAKE,
Minister of Finance.
Ministry of Finance,
Colombo 01,
01st January 2016.
REGULATIONS
These regulations may be cited as the “Non Manipulation Certificate Regulations” and shall come into operation on the
date these Regulations are published in the Government Gazette.
1. The Director General of Customs is hereby empowered to issue, on the request of a Master of every ship or
by a ship’s agent with the express or implied consent of such Master hereinafter called as the ‘Carrier’, a
“Non-Manipulation Certificate” in respect of “Non-Manipulated Cargo”
2. Non-Manipulated Cargo”
For the purpose of these Regulations, Non-Manipulated Cargo shall mean consignments that fulfill all of the
following conditions :-
(a) The consignment shall be containerized cargo sent from beyond the territorial limits of Sri Lanka,
destined for another country via the Airports or Sea Ports of Sri Lanka, after having been transshipped
in Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'01'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.01.2016
2A
(b) The container arrived in Sri Lanka under a tamperproof seal placed by the carrier and the said seal
remained intact until the container was loaded onboard the vessel, or the aircraft, in a Sri Lankan Port
for its final departure from Sri Lanka.
(c) From the time of arrival in Sri Lanka up to the time of loading onboard for final depature, the container
remained under  the supervision and control of Sri  Lanka Customs.
(d) Throughout the period the container remained in Sri Lanka, its contents were not altered in any manner,
and the container was not subjected to any operations other than those required to preserve its contents
in good condition.
3. On arrival of the containers, the carrier’s designated local agent who intends to obtain a “Non-Manipulation
Certificate” shall communicate this to the Director General of Customs, who shall thereupon make available
the services of Customs Supervision. Thereafter, after the container has been transshipped for final departure,
he shall make a request for a Non-Manipulation Certificate with regard to the cargo transshipped via Sri
Lanka and fulfilling the requirements of paragraph (2) of these Regulations.
4. The Carrier’s designated local agent applying for the Non-Manipulation Certificate shall also certify in the
same application that the container/s, for which a Non-Manipulation Certificate was requested, had fulfilled
all the conditions specified in paragraph (2) of these Regulations.
5. Thereupon, if the Director General of Customs is satisfied that the conditions stipulated under paragraph (2)
of these regulations have been fulfilled, he shall issue a Non-Manipulation Certificate in the format as depicted
in the annex hereto, on recovery of the fee prescribed in paragraph (6) of these Regulations.
6. The Director General of Customs shall charge a fee for each certificate so issued ; which fee shall initially be
an amount equivalent to US$ 10/- per certificate. The said fee will be periodically revised in consultation
with the Minister in charge of Finance.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'01'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.01.2016
3A
1. Name and Address of Shipping
Agent Freight Forwarder
2. Details of Consignment
a) Description of Goods
b) Country of Origin of Goods c) Bill of Lading No.
d) Date of Discharge in Sri Lanka e) Date of Departure from Sri Lanka
f) Country of Final Destination g) Via (Name of Vessel and V oyage No.)
3. Declaration by Shipping Agent/Freight Forwarder
1/We declare that
a) the goods described above were transshipped to the above country of final destination from Sri Lanka without
any alternation or manipulation ; and
(b) all information provided for above is true and correct.
Authorized Signature :
Name :
Designation :
Date :
                                                                                                                                                    (Company Stamp)
4. CERTIFICATION BY SRI LANKA CUSTOMS
We certify that to the best of our knowledge, the declaration by the exporter is true and correct. This Certificate is
issued without any prejudice or liablity whatsoever on our part arising any circumstances.
Authorized Signature :
Name :
Designation :
Date :
Sri Lanka Customs
Address : No. 40, Main Street,    E-mail : dgc@customs.gov.lk
Colombo 11, Sri Lanka        Fx : +94112446364
Tel. +94112470945-8
Certificate of Non-Manipulation
Issued pursuant to
No. .......................................
For Official use only
(if the goods described below were sealed by Sri Lanka
Customs, the seal number should be marked here)
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
Annexure