

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2374$17 - 2024 ud¾;= ui 05 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2024'03'05
No. 2374/17  -  tuesday,   march  05,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a - PG 6679 - 354 (03/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. d. B. 5/2021
PETROLEum   RESOuRCES  ACT,  No. 21 Of 2021
reGuLatioNs  made by the minister of Power and energy under section 48 read with section 4(a) and section 16(4) of 
the Petroleum resources act, No. 21 of 2021.
 
 Kanchana WijeseKera,
 minister of Power and energy.
colombo,
01st of march, 2024.
Regulations 
1. these regulations may be cited as the Petroleum resources (exploration and development Block map) 
regulations No. 1 of 2024.
2. (1) the authority shall prepare a map dividing the offshore and onshore areas into graticular sections to demarcate 
and designate exploration blocks and development blocks (hereinafter referred to as the “map”) which shall be designated 
for joint studies, exploration or development in conformity with the following procedure -
 (a) to identify the suspected petroleum resource areas ;
	 (b)	 to	 obtain	confirmation	from	the	relevant	government	agencies	for	preparing	the	Map	including	the	
identified	areas	;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.03.2024
2a
	 (c)	 upon	the	confirmation	under	paragraph	(b),	to	obtain	the	approval	of	the	Board	to	prepare	the	Map	;
 (d) to submit the draft of the map for the approval of the minister ; and  
 (e) to publish the map in the government Gazette and the website of the authority.
(2) in preparation of the map-
 (a) the country outline, maritime boundaries, and any other related maps references approved by the surveyor 
- General shall be used for the purpose of demarcating the offshore graticular sections ; 
 (b) the onshore graticular sections shall be demarcated by the surveyor - General in consultation with the 
authority
3. the map shall include the following : 
 (a) unique block reference number ;
 (b) coordinate system ;
 (c) projection ;
 (d) datum ;
 (f) scale ;
 (g) publishing entity details ; and  
 (h) any other relevant information.
4. upon the approval of the minister, the authority shall publish the map in the Gazette.
5 (1) Where the authority is of the opinion that any improvement is necessary for the map published in the Gazette, 
the authority shall obtain a special permission from the minister to improve the map.
(2) upon the special permission obtained under subregulaiton (1), the authority shall improve the map following 
the procedure laid down in regulation 2.
6. Notwithstanding the publication of the map under regulation 4, it shall not be prevented any other development 
initiatives or activities by the Government within the demarcated and designated area of the map.
eoG 03 - 0036/1
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
L. d. B. 5/2021
PETROLEum   RESOuRCES  ACT ,  No. 21 Of  2021
reGuLatioNs  made by the minister of Power and energy under section 48  of the Petroleum resources act, No. 21 of 
2021 read with section 13(3) of the aforesaid act.
 
 
Kanchana WijeseKera,
 minister of Power and energy.
colombo,
01st of march, 2024.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.03.2024
3a
Regulations 
1. these regulations may be cited as the Petroleum resources (data Licensing) regulations No. 2 of 2024.
2. a person shall not access any petroleum data, except under authority of a licence issued in that behalf of the 
Petroleum development authority of sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “authority”)
3.	Any	person	who	wishes	to	access	any	petroleum	data	for	the	commercial,	educational	or	scientific	use	shall	make	
an application to the director-General of the authority substantially be in the Form set out in the schedule hereto, for the 
purpose of obtaining the data access license. the director-General may, where necessary, require an applicant to furnish 
information.
4. upon the receipt of an application, director-General shall on the consideration of the matters contained in the 
application of the matters in the application and documents, submit a report to the Board of directors of the authority (in 
these regulations referred to as the “Board”).
5. upon the receipt of the report under regulation 4, the authority shall on the consideration of the matters in the 
application and documents  and, the report and recommendation if any, inform the applicant that either he is elgibel to be 
issued a data access Licence for accessing the data or of the refusal to issue such data access licence. the authority shall in 
writing inform the applicant of its decision and in a case of a refusal to grant a data access Licence, it shall state its reasons 
therefor.
6. every person who is eligible to be issued a Licence under regulation 4 shall enter into a Non-disclosure 
agreement, data Licensing agreement or data sharing agreement based on the requirement as mentioned in the application 
with the authority before issued of data acces Licence for access and use of petroleum data and upon the signing of the 
relevant agreement, the authority shall issue a data access Licence. the data access License Fee shall be determined by 
the Board based on the facts concerned and criticalness of the data and shall be addressed by the relevant agreement.
7. every data access Licence shall, unless revoked earlier, be valid for a period for which the Non-disclosure 
agreement, data Licensing agreement or data sharing agreement is in force and shall be subject to terms and conditions 
specfied	therein.
8.	The	Authority	may	revoke	a	Data	Access	Licence	issued	under	regulation	6,	if	the	Authority	is	satisfied	that	the	
licensee has violated any of the terms and conditions of the Non-disclosure agreement or data access Licence.
9. a darta access Licence issued under regulation 6 shall be renewable on an application being made in that behalf 
to the authority not later than thirty days before the expiry of the relevant agreement with a renewal fee as determined by 
the Board.
10. a data access Licence may subject to the provisions of regulation 6 be renewed by the authority if the authority 
is	satisfied	that	the	licensee	has	observed	the	terms	and	conditions.	
11. every physical or virtual data room visits shall be granted strictly under data room Guidelines. if the provision 
of such access carries a direct cost to the authority, as in the case of remote hosting, that cost shall be passed on to the 
applicant in the form of a fee determined by the Board.
12. a data access License, Non-disclosure agreement, data Licensing agreement or data sharing agreement 
shall not be transferable, and shall cease t be valid if the original applicant becomes a partner in a joint venture, physically 
ceases to exist, or otherwise changes his legal status, unless approved by the authority in writing.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.03.2024
4a
13. in these regulations unless the context otherwise requires - 
“data access License” means a license given by the Petroleum development authority of sri Lanka to 
any applicant or an entity as the licensee to access and use certain types of Petroleum data ;
“data Licensing agreement” means an agreement between the Petroleum development authority of sri 
Lanka and another party for the purpose of gaining access to the Petroleum data by purchasing 
those with a commercial value ;
“data sharing agreement” means an agreement between the Petroleum development authority of sri 
Lanka and another party for the purpose of transferring Petroleum data for educational or non-
commercial purpose ;
“Non-disclosure agreement” means an agreement between the Petroleum development authority of 
sri Lanka and another party to keep certain information provided by the authority to remain 
confidential	;
“Petroleum development authority of sri Lanka” means  the Petroleum development authority of sri 
Lanka established under section 3 of the Petroleum resources act, No. 21 of 2021; and 
“Petroleum data” shall have the same meaning as in the Petroleum resources act, No. 21 of 2021.
(regulation 3)
scheduLe i
data access License application Form
Name of the applicant
designation
organization/ institution
address
company incorporation No./ 
Business registration No.
email
telephone
application category Fax
Pleace tiek ( )
1. For physical or virtual data room visits
2. For purchase from the authority or a licensed contractor
3. For academic research
Petroleum data List (Please refer to the PdasL data catalogue available on www.pdasl.gov.lk)
details of intended purpose / use of the data
signature and details of authorized representative

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'05
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.03.2024
5a
i declare that the above furnished details are true to my knowledge and do hereby agree not to share the Petroleum data 
once	it	is	dreceived	by	preserving	confidentiality
signature     : ................................ data : ..............................
Name           : ................................
designation : ...........................
General
(i)   all documents must be in english.
(ii)  the ownership of all Petroleum data is vested with the Government of sri Lanka 
and control of such Petroleum data is vested with the authority.
(iii)  the authority shall review this application and decide whether to license the date 
the data. the applicant shall be duly informed of the decision. the decision of the 
Authority	shall	be	final.
applications shall be sent for the attention of the director General of the authority, via dg@pdasl.gov.lk or postal          
address;
Petroleum development authority,
Level 6, ceylinco house, Janadhipathi mawatha,
colombo 01, 
sri Lanka.
eoG 03 - 0036/2
  
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.