

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1431
1431
wxl 1"924 - 2015 cQ,s ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'07'17
No. 1,924 – FRIDAY , JULY 17, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1434
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1437
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th August, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th July,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.—  Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,923 of  10.07.2015 was not published.
Note.—  Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 29, 2015.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1432
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1433
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1434
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th August, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
26th June, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post  and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam W anathavilluwa Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Addi tional Registrar
(General) in Kalpitiya Division and General, District Secretariat, Puttalam
Births and Deaths of Pomparippupattu
West Division
07–678
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
NUWARAELIYA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1435
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th August, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
02nd July, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Nuwaraeliya Ambagamuwa Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
Ambagamuwa North Division and General, District Secretariat,
Post of Marriage Registrar of Nuwaraeliya.
Udabulathgama Division (Kandyan/
General)
07–888
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1436
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th August, 2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
29th June, 2015.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Mallawapitiya Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of District Secretary/Addi tional Registrar
Weudawilli Hathpattuwa Division in General, District Secretariat,
Kurunegala
Kurunegala Ridigama Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of District Secretary/Addi tional Registrar
Weudawilli Hathpattuwa Division in General, District Secretariat,
Thalgaspitiya Area Kurunegala
07–679
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th August, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
26th June, 2015.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1437
THE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
Darga Town of Kalutara and Panadura General, District Secretariat,  Kalutara
Thotamuna Division
07–677
–––––––––––––––––––
POST  OF  REGISTRAR  OF  MARRIAGE,  BIRTH  AND  DEATH  OF  THE  REGISTRAR
GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Kandy District
NOTICE OF CANCELLATION
THE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the post of Re gistrar of
Muslim Marriages in Kandy District which was published by me in the Part I(IIA) of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka bearing No. 1918 dated 05.06.2015 is cancelled hereby.
District Divisional Secretariat Division Post and Division for which Applications are called
Kandy Pathahewaheta Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages Udadeniya Division
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
26th June, 2015.
07–676
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission of Teachers who have passed the General Arts
Qualifying (External) Examination having offered English
as a subject or First Examination in Bachelor of
Science (External) Degree Programme - Academic
Year 2014/2015
APPLICA TIONS are entertained from teachers in Government and
Government approved private schools, who have passed the General
Arts Qualifying (External) Examination (with English as a subject)
and the First Examination of Bachelor of Science (External) Degree
Programme for admission to universities of Sri Lanka for studying
the following courses during the Academic Year 2014/2015 :–
(i) Bachelor of Arts Degree Programme with English as a
subject ;
(ii) Bachelor of Science Degree Programme.
02. For the purpose, the applicants should possess the
qualifications as follows :
(i) Should have passed the General Arts Qualifying (External)
Examination (with English as a subject) and the First
Examination of Bachelor of Science (External) Degree
Programme held in or after year 2010. (A copy of the
result sheet should be attached to the application) ;
(ii) Should have completed five years service as a teacher on
the last date of receiving applications should be
confirmed in the post ;
(iii) Should not have been registered already to follow courses
in a Teachers’ Training College, A National College of
Education and a University or in the National Institute
of Education ;

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1438
(iv) Selection for admission will be based on the total number
of marks obtained in the General Arts Qualifying
Examination (External) or First Examination of Bachelor
of Science (External) Degree Programme and the marks
obtained for the relevant subject.
In addition to this, the applicants qualified for General
Science degree will be subjected to an oral test conducted
by the relevant university and the applicants qualified
for Arts degree will be interviewed by the University
Grants Commission.
(v) Only teachers who are entitled to study leave should
forward their applications, as study leave has to be
granted to them if they are selected to follow the course.
03. Claims for approval of full pay study leave will be examined
at the interview.
04. The Ministry is not bound with the responsibility to provide
graduate teaching appointments after the Award of the Degrees.
05. In the case of applicants forwarded by teachers in
Government approved private schools, the Principal/Manager of
the school should state there in whether full pay study leave for the
relevant teacher could be allowed/not allowed.
06. Applications of teachers in Government Schools should be
certified by the Principal, Zonal Director and the Provincial Director
of Education and those of teachers in Government approved private
schools by the Principal/Manager of the relevant schools.
All applications should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen form appearing herewith and forward them in two copies
under registered post to the Secretary, Ministry of Education,
"Isurupaya", Battaramulla, before 14.08.2015, the words
"Applications for Admission to Universities in Sri Lanka 2014/
2015 should be clearly written on the left hand top corner of the
envelope enclosing the application.
U
PALI MARASINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
For official use only
ADMISSION OF TEACHERS WHO HAVE PASSED THE GENERAL ARTS
QUALIFYING (EXTERNAL) EXAMINATION HAVING OFFERED ENGLISH
AS A SUBJECT OR FIRST EXAMINATION IN BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
(EXTERNAL) DEGREE PROGRAMME
ACADEMIC YEAR 2014/2015
01. (i) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(ii) Name in full :–––––––––––.
02. Sex :–––––––––––.
03. (i) Post :–––––––––––. (ii) Grade :–––––––––––.
04. Address :
(i) Private :–––––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––––.
05. Telephone :
(i) Residence :–––––––––––. (ii) Mobile :–––––––––––.
06. E-mail :–––––––––––.
07. Present place of work :
(i) School :–––––––––––.
(ii) Zone :–––––––––––.
(iii) District :–––––––––––.
(iv) Province :–––––––––––.
08. (i) Date of first appointment :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date of confirmation :–––––––––––.
(iii) Period of service (from the date of appointment to the
closing date of application) :
Years :––––––––  Months :––––––––  Days :––––––.
09. Registration Number as a teacher :–––––––––––.
10. (i) Date of birth :
Date :–––––––––  Month :––––––––  Year :–––––––.
(ii) Age (as at closing date of application) :
Years :–––––––,  Months :–––––––,  Days :––––––––.
11. Details of qualifying examination (A certified copy of the Result
Sheet issued by the University should be attached) :
(i) Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) University :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Year Marks Grades
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
12. Name of the Degree Programme and subjects you wish to
follow :
(i) Name of the Degree :–––––––––––.
(ii) Subjects :
1. .............................
2. .............................
3. ............................
13. If selected, indicate the University/Universities you wish to
admit according to your order of preference :
1.  ............................ 3.  ............................
2.  ............................ 4.  ............................

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1439
14. State whether you have already registered to follow another
course in any Teachers' Training College, National College of
Education, University or National Institute of Education :–––
––––––––.
If "Yes" provide details :–––––––––––.
I certify that the above particulars are true and correct to the
best of my knoweldge.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms./Rev. ..................................... is
serving as a .................................................... (Post/Grade) at
................................ (Name of the school) with effect from
........................... and his/her last salary was paid from this school.
He/She can be/cannot be released to follow the above course of
study.
I approve/do not approve the study leave required for the
applicant (If do not recommend study leave, please give reasons) :
........................................................................................................
........................................................................................................
........................................................................................................
Recommended/Not Recommended.
––––––––––––––,
Principal.
(Signature and the Official Seal).
Date :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Recommended/Not Recommended.
––––––––––––––,
Zonal Director of Education.
(Signature and the Official Seal).
Date :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Recommended/Not Recommended.
––––––––––––––,
Provincial Director of Education.
(Signature and the Official Seal).
Date :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
07–867
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class 1, 2-I, 2-II
and 3 in the Sri Lanka Principals Service – 2015
THE EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION AS PER THE SRI
LANKA PRINCIPAL'S SERVICE MINUTE No. 1086/26
DATED 02.07.1999 WILL BE HELD ONLY THIS YEAR IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE MINISTRY OF EDUCA TION
CIRCULAR No. 33/2014
THIS is to notify that the Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers
in Class 1, 2-I, 2-II and 3 of Sri Lanka Principals’ Service will be held
in October 2015 in Colombo.
02. The syllabus and other provisions applicable to this
Examination is pubilshed in the Gazette Extraordinary of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, bearing No. 1,086/26 dated
02.07.1999. The said Syllabus and the other provisions are given as
follows for the convenience of the applicant. (Since the provisions
given by Section (D) of paragraph 27 of Sri Lanka Principals Service
Minute enabling the officers exceeded 45 years of age to be released
from Efficiency Bar Examination has been cancelled by the Public
Administration Circular No. 20/2001 dated 12.09.2001, all officers
in the Principals' Service should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination.)
(a) Procedure of Examination : Following are the subjects of
the Efficiency Bar Examination :
Subject No. 01 : Provision of the Establishment Code :
Part 1 : 50 multiple-choice questions - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
Part 2 : A structured question paper - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
All questions should be answered.
Syllabus.– Chapters of the Establishments' Code – I, II, III,
IV , V , VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XVI, XXIII, XXIV , XXV ,
XXVII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII, XLVIII.
Subject No. 02 : Financial Administration of Schools :
Part 1 : 50 multiple-choice questions - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
Part 2 : A structured question paper - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
All questions should be answered.
Subject No. 03 : Education Administration and Monitoring :
Part 1 : 50 multiple-choice questions - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
Part 2 : A structured question paper - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
All questions should be answered.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1440
03. At least 40% or more should be scored for each subject applied
for by a candidate to obtain the pass.
04. Language medium of the examination.– Sinhala/Tamil/English
(The medium of language applied for will not allowed to be changed
later.)
(i) A candidate can sit the Examination in the Official
Language ;
or
(ii) A candidate can sit for the examination in the medium of
language he/she sat for the Competitive Examination for
entering the Public Service or in relation to the officers
who have been recruited to the Public Service without a
Competitive Examination. The relevant candidate is
eligible to sit for this examination from the medium which
he/she has been qualified for entering the Public Service.
05. Any candidate revealed to have been appeared for the
examination in a medium not applicable to him/her is liable to have
his/her candidature cancelled.
5.1 Secretary, Ministry of Education will be provided with
results sheets containing results of all the candidates sat
the examination. The Commissioner General of
Examinations will not be issuing any individual results
sheet for candidates.
06. The application should be prepared according to the format
given in the notification, with Sections 01-07 to be appeared in the
first page while the balance in the second page and the relevant
particulars should be entered clearly in the candidates' own
handwriting. applications not in conformity with the model format
and are incomplete will be rejected without notice. It would be helpful
to retain a photocopy of the completed application. Furthermore
the candidate should affirm whether the application submitted
conforms to the model format provided in the Examination Notice.
Please note that if it does not conform, it will be rejected. When
preparing the application either in Tamil or Sinhala, the title of the
examination should be appeared in English as well in addition to the
title in one of the above two languages.
07. Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations, and the candidates are bound to adhere to the rules
and regulations formulated by him to conduct the examination. The
relevant rules and regulations are given at the end of this notice.
08. Applications should be sent by registered post to reach the
“Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka Department of Examinations,
P. O. Box 1503, Colombo” on or before the 17th August, 2015
through the Principal/Divisional Director of Education/Zonal Director
of Education or the Additional Provincial Director of Education/
Provincial Director of Education or the Head of your service.
Applications received after the said date will be rejected.
09. The Commissioner General of Examinations shall issue
admissions to the examination to the candidates submitted accurately
completed application along with the invoice (if applicable) which
proves the payment of examination fees. The Department of
Examinations will issue a press notice immediately after Admissions
for the Examination are issued. If admissions are not duly received
even after 2 or 3 days after the notice of the Sri Lanka Department of
Examinations in the manner set out in the notice. Name in full of the
applicant, address, number of the National Identity Card and the
name of the Examination should be mentioned when informing such
to the Department. If the candidate is beyond Colombo, a Fax Number
to which the Admission to be sent too can be given along with the
request mentioned above for productivity. If needed when inquired
from the Department of Examinations it will be of importance to get
the copy of the paying invoice of the examination fees and invoice of
the postal registration of the application ready to prove the
candidature of the applicant. The issuance of an Admission to a
candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance that qualifications
to take up the Examination have been fulfilled.
10. Complaints (subsequently forwarded) of candidates who do
not fulfill the requirements set out in 08 above, will not be considered.
(i) A candidate should appear the examination in the given
examination hall under the given precise examination
number. Every candidate should hand over their admission
consist of the certification of their signature to the
supervisor in-charge of the examination hall at the first
date of the examination. No permission will be granted to
those fail to submit the said admission to the examination.
11. It is the responsibility of candidates to establish their identity.
Only the following only will be accepted for this purpose :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
or
(ii) Valid passport.
12. Examination fees :
(a) Fees charged for this Examination will be refunded under
no circumstances nor it be allowed to be transferred to
any other Examination.
(b) No fee will be charged for the whole examination or for
a part thereof in case of the first attempt.
(c) The charged levied for each attempt thereafter is as
follows :
For the Full Examination Rs. 400/=
For One Subject Rs. 200/=
The full fee applicable to this examination should be paid at any
District Secretariat or Divisional Secretariat in the Island to be credited

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1441
to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations and the receipt should be firmly affixed at the proper
place on the application. Retaining a photocopy of the receipt will
be helpful. Money orders or stamps will not be accepted as
examination fees.
13. The candidates are subject to the rules and regulations enforced
by the Commissioner General of Examinations for conducting the
Examination. The candidate will have to bear any punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in case if
these rules and regulations are violated.
14. In case of any contradiction prevailed in the notices published
in the Sinhala, Tamil and English media, the Sinhala medium
notification should be considered as the empowered/original
notification.
15. The right to take decision on any particular matter not covered
by this notification lies with the Secretary of the Ministry of
Education.
U
PALI MARASINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Pelawatte,
17th July, 2015.
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS 1, 2-I, 2-II AND
3 OF THE SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS SERVICE - 2015
(Please forward the application by registered post to the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign
Examination Branch Sri Lanka Department of Examinations,
P. O. Box 1503, Colombo, through the Principal/Divisional or Zonal
Director of Education/Additional Provincial Director of Education/
Provincial Director of Education. Name of the Examination should
be appeared on the top left hand corner of the envelope).
01. Medium of Language for the Examination :
(Enter the Relevant Number in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
02. (i) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
(Ex . : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
(ii) Name with maiden name at first and other names at the
end. (In block letters) :–––––––––––.
(Ex.– GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
(iii) Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
03. (i) Class/Grade in the Principals Service :–––––––––––.
(ii) School/Office :–––––––––––.
(iii) Provincial Department of Examinations/Zonal Education
Office :–––––––––––.
04. Address :
(i) Private :–––––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––––.
(iii) Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
(iv) Personal Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
05. (i) National Identity Card Number :
(ii)Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
06. Subject applied for, with the Subject Number given in paragraph
02(a) of the Gazette Notification.
Subject No. 01 : Provisions of the
Establishment  Code
Subject No. 02 : Financial Management in
Schools
Subject No. 03 : Education Administration
and Supervision
Write relevant subject Number/s in the cages
07. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
08. State whether you have appeared for this examination previously.
If so state the Subject, Subject Number, Year and the Medium :
Subject Subject No. Year Medium
09. Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying examination fee :
Receipt No. :––––––––.
Divisional/District Office :––––––––.
Date :––––––––.
Affix receipt here

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2015
1442
10. I hereby declare the particulars furnished above are accurate. Further, I agree to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct of the Examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examination
I certify that the candidate whose particulars are given above is an officer in my School/office. I also certify that the applicant
is released from the examination fees and has affixed the receipt for examination fee correct.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Principal/Divisional or Zonal Director of Education/Additional
Director of Education/Provincial Director of Education.
(In case of a principal, please give name of the school).
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Delete inapplicable words)
07–893
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.