

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2008
1201
1201
wxl 1"568 _ 2008 iema;eïn¾ 19 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'09'19
No. 1,568 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 19, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1204
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1205
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th September, 2008, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 12th September, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- Part I-II(A) of the Gazette No. 1,567 of 12.09.2008 was not published.
Note :- (i) Urban Settlement Development Authority Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of July, 11th 2008.
(ii) Ranaviru Seva Authority (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August , 29th 2008.
(iii) Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August , 22nd 2008.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2008
1202
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2008
1203
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2008
1204
Posts - Vacant
DISTRICT  SECRETARIAT,  MATALE
Recruitment to the  Post  of Receptionist
APPLICATIONS are invited from the female/male parties those
who have fulfilled the following Qualifications for the recruitment
to the  Post  of Receptionist in District Secretariat, Matale.
01. Designation : Receptionist
02. Number of vacancies for the  Post  - 01
03. Salary code  and Scale .-  Salary Code  MN 2 – 2006 A of
Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006  (iv) is applicable.
(Rs. 13,990 – 10 x 145 – 11 x 170 – 14 x 320 – Rs. 23,230)
04. Qualifications :-
4.1 The  candidate should  be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
4.2 Has  an excellent character and in good physical and mental
condition.
4.3 The age  of candidates should  not be less  than 18 years
or more than 45 years as at the closing  date of applications.
(Maximum age limit  will not be applicable to those  who
are already in the  Public/Provincial Public Sector)
4.4 Educational Qualifications.– G . C. E.  (O/L) in 06 subjects
with  four  Credit passes either in Sinhala /Tamil language
or Literature, Arithmetic/Pure Mathematics/Basic
Mathematics and English in not  more  than two  sittings.
(a pass in a minimum of 05 subjects at one  sittings)
or
G. C. E. (O/L) in 06 subjects with  four Credit passes
including Sinhala/Tamil language, Mathematics  and
English in not  more than  two sittings. (a pass in a
minimum of 05  subjects at one  sittings).
or
N. G. C. E. in 06 subjects with  four  A or B grade passes
including First language, Mathematics and  English. (a
pass  in a minimum of 05 subjects at one sittings)
4.5 Have  a good  command in Sinhala and English languages.
Practical knowledge in Tamil language will be a special
qualification.
05. Service Condition .- This  post  is permanent and pensionable
and liable  to contribute to the Widow and Orphans Pension Fund.
5.1 Provisions in paragraphs 10-12 in Chapter II of  the
Establishment Code  are applicable.
06. Method of Recruitment.– The most  suitable candidate from
among  those who  obtained highest marks at the  structural interview
to be  held will be selected.
07. Method of Application .– Applications prepared on A4 size
paper as per specimen appended to this  notice, should be sent  by
registered post  to reach the District Secretary, District Secretariat,
Matale on or before 03rd of  October, 2008.  Applications received
after  the closing date  of  applications not  prepared as per  specimen
form  or incomplete applications  will be  rejected. The words
“Post  of Receptionist” should  be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope  in which  the application is enclosed.
H. M. G
AMANI SENEVIRA TNE,
District Secretary/Government Agent
Additional Secretary to the
Ministry of Home  Affairs,
Matale.
District Secretariat,
Matale.
29th of August, 2008.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
District S
ECRETARIAT MATALE
Application of Recruitment to the  Post  of Receptionist
01. Name  with  initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––.
02. Names denoted by initials  :–––––––––.
03. Present permanent Address  :–––––––––.
04. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :–––––––––.
(Whether it is by Birth or registration)
05. National Identity Card  No. :–––––––––.
06. Civil Status  :–––––––––.
07. If serving is an  organization, it’s name  :–––––––––.
Addres :–––––––––.
Designation  :–––––––––.
08. Sex  :–––––––––.
09. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––. Month :–––––––––.  Date :–––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications  :–––––––––.
11. Language ability  :–––––––––.
12. Experience in relevant field  :–––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2008
1205
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
Institute  From To
1.
2.
I do hereby certify that the  particulars furnished by me in the
application are true and correct. I am also aware that  if any
particular contain herein is found to be  false or incorrect, I am
liable   to be   disqualified if detected after the appointment
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date  :––––––––––.
13. Certificate  of the Head  of Department/Institution of the
applicant in serving in the  Government  sector or  in the  Provincial
Public  Service :
I certify that  the applicant, Mr./Mrs/Miss ...............................
is serving  in the  .............................................. Ministry/Department/
Institute as a .............................................. on Permanent/
Temporary/Casual/Trainee basis and that  has not been  subjected
to any disciplinary punishment  (except warnings) and  that if
selected  he/she can be/cannot be released from service.
––––––––––,
Signature of Head  of Department/
Institution
(Official Seal)
Date  :–––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Name of Ministry/Department/Instiution :–––––––––.
09-668
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS
Small Entrepreneur Division
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION 2008  for Assistant
Directors (Departmental)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
Assistant Directors (Departmental) attached to Small Entrepreneurs
Division of the Ministry of Youth Affairs will be conducted in
Colombo by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Applications are invited according to the notification.
02. Examination Procedure :
(a)  This examination consists of two question papers and
the subjects recommended for each question paper are
given below.
(b) Total marks for each subject is 100 and the minimum
pass mark is 40.
(c) This examination will be conducted only in Sinhala and
Tamil.
(d) This examination consists of 02 subjects and the
candidates are allowed to sit once or in several sittings.
03. The question papers and the subjects for each question
papers :
Question Paper No.1 (03 hours) –
1. General Management - (Subject No. 01) :
- Organization and Management.
- Management Procedures and Management Activities.
- Duties and functions of Managers.
- Management levels
- Duration of Management.
- Human Resources Management.
Quesion Paper No. 2 (03 hours) –
2. Business Management and Development - (Subject No. 02):
- Enttepreneur and Economic Development.
- Business Management and related Marketing, Human
Resource, Finance and operation in the Management
field.
- Business Rules and Social Responsibility.
- Preparation of Feasibility Studies and Project Reports.
04. Method of Application :
(a) The candidates should prepare their application as per
specimen application published at the end of this
notification. Application should be prepared from (1) to
(3) of the first page and the rest should be on the second
page. All information should be filled clearly by the
candidate with his/her own handwriting. When preparing
the application the heading of the examination in
Sinhala/Tamil and should be English as well. The application
is not according to the specimen application will be rejected
without any intimation. It will be useful to keep the
photocopy of the relevant application.
(b) The duly filled application should be sent under registered
cover to reach the following address on or before
20.10.2008 :
“Commissioner General of Examinations,
Sri Lanka Examination Department,
(Organization and Foreign Examination Branch),
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla”.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2008
1206
(c) The name of the examination “Efficiency Bar Examination
2008 for Assistant Directors (Departmental)” should be
clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
The applications received after the closing date will be
rejected. It will be useful to keep the photocopy of the
relevant application.
(d) Applicants will not be informed the receipt of the
application. Immediately after the admission cards are issued
to the applicants, the Commissioner General of
Examinations will advertise it in the newspapers. Candidates
should be vigilant of this notice. It you do not receive the
Admission Card within 02 or 03 days of the advertisement,
it should be informed to the Department of Examinations
of Sri Lanka. A letter of request along with certified
photocopy of your application, the receipt of registered
post and if you are residing out of Colombo the fax number
to forward the admission card and it will be useful to keep
your letter of request with you. This should be notified to
the address given in Paragraph 04(b) (The telegraphic
address is “Exams”, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.).
05. Admission to the Examination :
(a) Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to all candidates who have sent their
applications. Candidates should note that an Admission
Card is issued is not a qualification to sit for the examination.
Candidates should sit for the examination at the examination
centre assigned to them. Duly  attested Admission Card
should be produced to the supervisor of the examination
centre. Candidates should produce the signature certified.
A Candidate who fails to produce Admission Card will not
be  permitted to sit for the examination. The rules and
instructions have to be followed by the candidates are also
given in this Gazette Notification.
Note .– The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate does not
mean that he or she has the requisite qualification to sit for the
examination. All candidates are bound to abide by the rules and
regulations laid down by the Commissioner General of Examinations
to conduct the examination. If a candidate violates any of those
rules is liable to a punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
(b) Identification of the Candidate .– A candidate will have to
prove his/her identity at the Examination Centre to the satisfaction
of the supervisor for each subject. One of the following identification
will be accepted for this purpose :
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii) V alid Passport.
S. W
IRITHAMULLA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs.
Ministry of Youth Affairs,
Boudhaloka Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
For Office use
SMALL ENTREPRENEUR DIVISION OF THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS
Efficiency Bar Examination for Assistant Director (Departmental)
Officers - 2008
01. Name :
1.1 Last Name with initials (In block capital) : ————.
Example : Silva, G. A. :
1.2 Name in Full : ————.
(In English Capital)
1.3 Name in full : ————.
(In Sinhala)
02.
2.1 Official Address : ————.
(In English capital)
(Admission Card will be posted to this address).
2.2 Permanent Address : ————.
(In Sinhala)
2.3 National Identity Card No. :
2.4 Sex :
(Female - 1 Male -0) (Write the number in the cage).
03. State the subjects of the examination :
1. ————. Subject No. :
2. ————. Subject No.  :
I do hereby declare that the information given above are true and
accurate. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations
of the examination, detemined by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :————.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
The application forwarded by Mr./Mrs./Miss............. has signed
before me and I certify that the particulars given by him/her are
correct and eligible to sit for this Efficency Bar Examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :————.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
09-699

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2008
1207
SRI  LANKA - GERMAN  RAILWAY  TECHNICAL
TRANINIG  CENTER - RATHMALANA
ADMISSION  OF  APPRENTICES
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens possessing
the following  minimum qaulifications stipulated in pass 02 herein
for admission of apprentices to the Sri Lanka - German Railway
Technical Training Centre for 2008.
02. Minimum Qualifications :
(a) Age Limit  : Should be between  16-25 years as at
31.05.2008
(b) Educational Qualifications  : Should have passed the
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination in 06 subjects
including of Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Science in not more than two sittings. It is required to
possess the educational qualifications completely before
31.12.2007 and passing of 05 subject in the first sitting.
03. Training Courses  .– The apprentices selected for training
will be given an apportunity to follow the following trades subject
to the period of time relevent to the trades. The courses will be
conducted only in Sinhala medium. 18 persons each for the following
courses will be selected.
i. Diesel Engine Mechanic 2 1/2 Years
ii. Welder 03 Y ears
iii. Electrician (Power) 03 1/2 Years
iv. Machine setter (General) 03 1/2 Years
v. Motor Mechanic 04 Years
04. Applications.– Applicants should indicate their particulars
correctly in the applications forms prepared in white blank sheet of
297 x 210 m.m. (A 4 size) according to the specimen attached
herewith. Incomplete applications will be rejected.
05. Selection for the courses :
(1) There will be written and practical tests and only the
candidates with requisite qualification and who have paid
the examination fees mentioned in para 07 will be
summoned for the written test.
(2) Written examination will be based on the basic technical
knowledge, mathematics and General knowledge. The
candidates who obtain the highest marks at the written
test will be summoned for the interview practical test
based on each course.
(3) The candidates who obtain the highest marks both at the
written and practical tests will be selected for each course.
06. Medium of Examination  .– Examination medium will be
Sinhala, Tamil and English.
07.  Examination fees.– Non - refundable Rs.250 will be charged
for the examination. This amount can be paid by money order
written in favour of General Manager of Railways indicating the
paying - in - office as Maradana Post office or to any Railway
stations or to this Railway Chief Accountant’s office at Maradana
and the receipt of the money order should be attached to the
application. Application received without money order receipt will
be rejected. The examination fee will not be refunded for failure to
appear before the examination or under any circumstances.
08. Examination Centres.– The Written examination will be held
in Colombo centre only for those who fullfil all the requirements.
09. Signing of Agreement .– All applicants selected for training
in the institution should enter to an Agreement with the National
Apprentices and Technical Training Authority that they follow the
training successfully during the specified period.
10. The apprentices will be paid a monthly allowance during the
period of training by Apprentice and Technical Training Authority.
11. The Department is not bound to give employment to the
apprentices after training.
12. The application form prepared according to the specimen
form given below should be sent to the Director, Sri Lanka German
Railway Technical Training Center, Kaldemulla Road, Rathmalana
by registered post. SLGRTTC/2008 should be  indicated on the top
left hand corner of the envelope.
13. Closing date of applications .– Applications will be
entertained up to 31.10.2008 and the later applications will be
rejected.
T. L
ALITHASIRI GUNARUWAN,
General Manager Railways.
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Sri Lanka Railways,
Colombo 10.
28 August 2008.
Specimen Application Form
Recruitment of apprentices to Sri Lanka - German Railway
Technical Training  Center - 2008
For Office use only
1. Full Name (with surname) (in Sinhala and English) :—.
2. Address : (Sinhala) :————.
(English) :————.
3. District :————.
4. Date of Birth : ————.
5. Sex :   male/female :————.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2008
1208
6. Educational qaulification :————. G. C. E. (O/L)
First Year Index No.
Subject Grade
1. ............................. ..........................
2. ............................. ..........................
3. ............................. ...........................
4. ............................. ..........................
5. ............................. ..........................
6. ............................. ..........................
7. .............................. ..........................
8. ............................. ..........................
9. ............................. ..........................
10. ............................. ..........................
Second year Index No.
Subject Grade
1. ............................. ..........................
2. ............................. ..........................
3. ............................. ...........................
4. ............................. ..........................
5. ............................. ..........................
6. ............................. ..........................
7. .............................. ..........................
8. ............................. ..........................
9. ............................. ..........................
10. ............................. ..........................
07. Language medium in which the applicant prefers to sit the
examination. :————.
08. Indicate two trades in which the applicant prefers in order
according to the notification. :————.
1. ............................
2. ............................
09. Money order/the receipt No...................................... obtained
after making a payment of Rs.250 to the post office/Railway station.
10. I certify that the particulars mentioned above are true and
correct. Further I am aware if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false or incorrect I am liable to disqualification if the
discrepency is discorrected before selection and to dismissal if
ditected after the applicant.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
09-652PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.