

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1120
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1114 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"229 – 2021 uehs ui 21 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'05'21
No. 2,229  –  fRiday ,  may 21, 2021
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th June, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th may, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1111 - B 82232 - 5,403 (05/2021)
N.B.—Part iii of the Gazette No. 2228 of 13.05.2021 was not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'05'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2021
1112
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'05'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2021
1113
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'05'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2021
1114
SRI  LANkA  POLICE   
Post of Woman Police Constable (Special Task force) 
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
direct recruitment for the Post of Probationary Woman Police 
constable or Sri Lanka Police - Special task force.
2. applications duly prepared according to the specimen 
application form given below should be forwarded to 
the address, director/Recruitment, Police Recruitment 
division, No. 375, first floor, Sri Sambuddhathva Jayanthi 
mawatha, colombo 06 or commandant Special task force 
Headquarters, No. 223, Bauddaloka mawatha, colombo 07. 
the post you are applying for should be mentioned on the 
top-left corner of the envelope in which your application 
is enclosed and it should be forwarded by registered post 
to reach the above address on or before 30.06.2021. Late 
applications will not be considered and applications will not 
be issued by Sri Lanka Police.  
3. Salary Scale.–  monthly Rs. 29,540 - 7 x 300 - 27 x 270 
-  Rs. 41,630.
this salary scale is calculated according to Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016.
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted under the inspector General's  circular dated 
07.01.2013 bearing No. 2416/2013. they will receive the 
following allowances on a monthly basis in addition to the 
salary scale mentioned above.   
    Rs. cts. 
 (a) cost of living allowance 7,800.00
 (b) interim allowance 2,500.00
 (c) 40% of the basic salary as  
  allowance 11,816.00
 (d) 33% of the monthly Salary 9,748.20
 (e) incentive allowance 1,500.00
 (f) arduous duty allowance 2,000.00
 (g) combined allowance 9,800.00
 (h) other allowances 5,263.20
 (i) married allowance 300.00
 (j) Uniform cleaning allowance 250.00
in addition to the above said allowances :
 (a)  free transport facilities.
Posts – vacant
 (b)  Free medical facilities for officers (Financial 
support can be obtained even for getting medical 
treatment abroad).
 (c)  all the uniforms will be provided free of charge.
 (d)  facilities to enhance one's sports skills and inborn 
talents.
 (e)  Travelling expenses for duties and financial rewards 
for exceptional peformance and arduous service. 
 (f) Officers will be entitled to the special allowance 
only during the period they are attached to the Stf 
consequent to the basic training. 
04. Basic Qualifications Required : 
4.1 Age Limit :
 the applicant must be aged between 18 - 25 
years at the time of the closing date of the 
application as per the Gazette notification. 
4.2 Educational Qualifications : 
 Having passed 06 subjects with 04 credit 
passes including a credit pass for the medium 
language at G. c. E. (o/L) examination at 
one and the same sitting. and the applicant 
should have passed the subject, mathematics 
in not more than two sittings. 
Note:  01.  According to the subject classification 
of the Department of Examinations, two 
Aesthetic Subjects bearing No. 41 and 
44 are considered as a single subject and 
two Aesthetic Subjects bearing No. 42 
and 45 are also considered as a single 
subject when determining the number 
of subjects passed at the examination.
 02.  Despite having passed the practical test 
of the Technological Studies at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination, failing in the written 
test of the same subject is considered as 
having failed the said subject.
 03.  Since the subjects, Optional Tamil, 
English and Sinhala are not included in 
G. C. E. (O/L) subject stream, having 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'05'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2021
1115
passed those subjects is not considered 
as one of the subjects passed at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination.
4:3 Physical Requirements :
• Height should be 05 feet and 01 inch 
(minimum)
4:3:1  all the applicants should be physically 
and mentally fit to discharge the duties of 
the post and to work anywhere within Sri 
Lanka.
4:3:2  Vision Requirements :
 minimum vision of one eye, without 
wearing spectacles or contact lens, 
should not be less than 6/12. if the vision 
of one eye is 6/6, the vision of the other 
eye should be 6/18.
4:3:3 Should not have undergone artificial 
body modifications which might be 
deemed unsuitable for the honour 
of police service or may cause 
obstruction in the execution of duty.
4:4 Other Qualifications :
4:4:1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
4:4:2 the applicant should not possess a tarnished 
character.
4:4:3 the applicant should be a bachelor 
(divorcees, widows and single parents are 
not qualified to apply)
4:4:4  Should be prepared to work anywhere in 
the country.
4:4:5 Qualifications mentioned in the application 
from 4:1 to  4:2 which are required for 
the post are expected to have been fully 
acquired by the date mentioned in the notice 
inviting applications and the qualifications 
in 4:4 are expected to remain the same even 
on the date of recruitment.
5. Preliminary Interview.– only the applicants who meet 
the basic qualifications and age requirement out of those 
who have furnished the applications will be called for the 
preliminary interview. During the interview, qualifications 
mentioned in paragraph 4:3 (except 4:3:2 and 4:3:3) and 4:4 
(except 4:4:2 and 4:4:4) mentioned above will be checked.
the applicants who face the preliminary interview should 
face the endurance test conducted by a board of officers 
appointed by the inspector General of Police.
The form forwarded with the call letter to get it verified 
that the applicant is not unfit to face this endurance test 
should be furnished then with the recommendation of a 
doctor registered with Sri Lanka medical council.
Activity Time marks
Long distance Running 1000 
meters
Below 03 minutes 30
Between 03 to 04 minutes 20
Between 04 to 05 minutes 10
chin-ups (05 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 03 marks 
for each rep
Push-ups (15 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 01 mark 
for each rep
Sit-ups (15 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 01 mark 
for each rep
Squat thrusts (15 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 01 mark 
for each rep
Kim's Game (memory test) 30 seconds to observe items, 30 seconds to 
memorize, 120 seconds to write
a maximum of 10 marks with 01 mark 
for each item
Note: Applicants who fail to run a distance of 1000 meters in 05 minutes are considered having failed the 
fitness test and also should obtain more than 60 marks out of 100 as cut off marks.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'05'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2021
1116
06. Written examination : the applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be called for the written 
examination. the written examination will be held under the following subjects :
Subjects Maximum marks Qualified marks
01. Comprehension and language proficiency 50
40%
02. General knowledge and i.Q. test 50
0 7. Structured Interview.– only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview and Written examination 
will be directed to the structured interview. the Structured interview Board will be appointed by the inspector General of 
Police.
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum Mark Cut-Off Mark for Selection
01.additional Educational Qualifications 15
Not applicable
02.Professional Qualifications 15
03. Language proficiency 10
04. Sports skills 20
05. Leadership/community services 20
06. Evaluation of the interview board 20
100
08. Method of Recruitment.– the aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the Written Examination 
and Structured interview is listed in descending order. Based on the order of marks obtained, a number of applicants, which 
is 125% of the number of vacancies, will be called for the Background Check and Medical Test and the qualified applicants 
out of those will be recruited for the post based on the number of available vacancies.
Note:-  Deviating from the above procedural measures, the applicants who possess exceptional sports 
skills on national or international level or have displayed special talents or proficiency in a 
different field may be recruited at the discretion of the appointing authority, disregarding the 
height and chest requirement, if such applicant meets other qualifications.
09. Background Check :
9.1 a  background check will be conducted to check any adverse reports on the applicants based on the 
number of available vacancies and the arrangement of  the aggregate of the marks obtained by each 
applicant for the Written Examination and Structured interview listed in descending order.
9.2 With the intention of getting the applicant's character exposed, background checks will also be carried out 
on the applicant, on his next of kin and on his close companions and applicants with negative background 
check reports will not be recruited.
9.3 Providing false information during recruitment by applicants will result in disqualification. If it is revealed, 
after the recruitment, that false information had been provided, service will be terminated at any time.
10. Medical Test : only the applicants, who do Not have negative background report, will be called for medical 
test. the selected applicants should pass the medical test conducted by the medical Board headed by the chief medical 
Officer of Police Hospital. In addition, a test will be performed on the applicants to check whether they are physically and 
mentally fit to perform police duties. An applicant can take the medical test only once. The medical test will be conducted 
under health 169 form. appeals will not be considered from the applicants who disqualify from the medical test.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'05'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2021
1117
11. Training :
11.1 Based on the vacancies available, only 
the applicants who have passed the above 
tests will be called for training on a date 
specified by the Inspector General of 
Police. Selected applicants will receive the 
preliminary training at Sri Lanka Police 
college. afterwards, they will receive 
extensive training in the respective field during 
the probation period.
11.2 appointing authority will decide whether 
to extend the training period or nullify the 
appointment of the officers who do not 
complete their preliminary training.
12. Nature of Post : Permanent and pensionable (Subject 
to the policy decisions made by the governing on the pension 
scheme)
13. Service Conditions :
13.1 Selected applicants should serve a probation 
period/apprenticeship of three years under the 
section 13.3.
13.2 the selected applicants shall act in conformity 
with any orders or circulars already made 
or may hereafter be made to implement the 
Official Language Policy.
13.3 Should abide by the circulars of  National Police 
commission, provisions of Establishment code, 
financial Regulations, Public administration 
circulars, treasury circulars, Sri Lanka Police 
ordinance, Police Gazette Notification, l.G.P. 
circulars, instruction codes and provisions 
thereof and conditions of the appointment 
letter.
13.4 The probation period shall prevail for first three 
years from the date of appointment and the 
officers are not permitted to consummate the 
marriage during the period. one should enter 
into marriage only as per the instructions given 
in l.G.P. circulars. if getting married during 
probation period, a special permission should 
be obtained from inspector General of Police. 
if this regulation is violated, the appointment 
shall be nullified.
13.5 those who are recruited should serve 
compulsory service period of 5 years after 
completion of training. they should sign a bond 
giving their consent to pay all the stipulated 
expenses, should there be any that had been 
spent for his/her training and other expenses 
including uniforms at the time he is handing 
over the resignation letter in the event of an 
officer intends to resign from the service before 
completion of his compulsory service period. 
measures will be taken as per the provisions of 
Establishment code and Procedural Rules of 
Public Service commission in relation to the 
resignation.
13.6 When each and every officer of direct 
recruitment is initially appointed to the police 
service, who should provide particulars of all 
their assets, which the officer either has absolute 
ownership to or retains title to or has been 
transferred to and all the liabilities in General 
form No. 261 (revised) to inspector General of 
Police, to be included in his personal file.
 Officer immediately after the marriage should 
include the above particulars about his spouse 
and submit.
 if a new asset or possession as described in the 
above is acquired, a complete description of 
the said asset or possession should be given in 
writing to the inspector General of Police to be 
included in the personal file. 
13.7 Probationary Woman Police constables should 
subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect 
that they comply with the constitution of 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
as soon as they start the training at Sri Lanka 
Police college or Special task force training 
School at Katukurunda.
14. Confirmation in service : after the completion of 
probation period of 03 years, directly recruited officers will 
be confirmed in service by the appointing authority. If an 
officer fails to meet the requirements of the First Efficiency 
Bar within probation period, the officer will be confirmed in 
service after deciding the seniority as per Procedural Rules 
considering the additional time spent after the prescribed 
period.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'05'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2021
1118
However, appointments of officers who could not meet the requirement of the first efficiency bar within a period of 
additional 03 years will be nullified unless decided by the appointing authority to confirm the service or to extend the 
probation period.
15 Efficiency Bars: Efficiency bar examinations should be passed as follows.
The type of Efficiency Bar Prescribed period for passing the 
Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency
Bar Written examination/ Professional
Examination/ Certificate Course/ Other
First Efficiency Bar 
Examination (Examination 
for Confirmation of Service]
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Woman Police 
constable
Written, Practical, and oral
Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Woman Police 
Sergeant
Successful completion of the orientation 
training
Third Efficiency
Bar Examination
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Woman Police 
Sergeant major
Successful completion of the orientation 
training
16.  Language Proficiency :
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Official Language Officers recruited through a medium that is not an official language should obtain the 
proficiency for the relevant official language within the probationary period.
Other Official Language Should obtain the relevant level of proficiency as per the Public Administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and consequent circulars
17. (a) General conditions releva nt to the appointment to posts of the public service that have been published in the 
beginning of paragraph (ii a) of Part i of this Gazette notification will be applicable.
18. applicants should send the copies of the following documents attached to their applications. (original documents 
should not be submitted)
(a) Birth Certificate,
(b) a  photocopy of the National identity card,
(c) Certificates to verify educational qualifications.
19. (a) applicants who are already in the public service should forward their applications through the relevant Heads 
of Department. Those applications should accompany a certificate indicating that the applicant can be released if selected.
(b) applications should be completed in applicant's own handwriting on 11" x 8" papers and should be sent along with 
the relevant copies of the certificates to the address mentioned in the above paragraph 02, and the application should not be 
handed over personally to any officer under any circumstances.
20. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notification will be rejected. Replies will not be sent to 
such applicants in that regard.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'05'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2021
1119
Note:- Travelling or any other expense will not 
be paid by the Sri Lanka Police to the 
applicants who are called for interviews and 
examinations.
 
C. D. WiCkramaratne,
 inspector General of Police. 
   
   (For office use only)
   size 2"x21/2"
SRi LaNKa PoLicE 
Post of Probationary Woman PoliCe Constable - sPeCial 
task forCe
sPeCimen aPPliCation form
01.  (a) Name in full   :––––––––––.
   (in clear and legible handwriting) Should be  
  exactly as mentioned in the Nic)
  (b) Name (with initials) :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 (a copy of the Nic should be attached)
03. father's full name  :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat of the relevant birth place :                     
––––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :––––––––––.
  (b) Relevant Police Station of present address :––––––.
  (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (d) Relevant Police Station of permanent address :                  
––––––––––.
  (e) mailing address :––––––––––.
  (f) Grama Niladari's division of permanent address 
:––––––––––.
   divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
  (g) t elephone No. :   Home :––––––––––.
       mobile :––––––––––.
  (h) E-mail address :––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  (b)  Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen by descent or  
  by registration :–––––––––.
   (If by registration, kindly produce that certificate)
  (c)  if you became a citizen by descent, mention the  
  birth places of :–
  (i) applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) applicant's father :––––––––––.
  (iii) applicant's paternal grand father :––––––––.
  (iv) applicant's paternal great grand father :––––––.
07. date of Birth :––––––––––. 
 (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
 age :––––––––––.
 (as at the closing date of this Gazette Notification) :  
 y ears :––––––––, months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
08. Height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Should mention the 
examinations passed and the copies of the relevant 
certificates should be attached) :––––––––––.
10. marital Status :––––––––––.
11.  (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (ii) are you a member of the armed forces ? :––––––.
12. Have you ever served in Sri Lanka Police ? :–––––––––.
 Post and Rank No. :––––––––––.
 if yes, indicate the reasons for you to resign from the 
post :––––––––––.
13. (a) are you currently serving in an armed force ? if 
yes, the application should be forwarded through 
the Commanding Officer of the respective force 
:––––––––––.
 (b) Have you ever served in armed forces ? if yes, 
please attach a copy of the certificate of legal 
discharge :––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'05'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2021
1120
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
amendment
tHE Gazette Notice which was published in the Government Gazette No. 2225 under 04-709 dated on 23.04.2021 should 
be as follows :
Amending the closing date of applications for the Post of Technical Officer-Grade III in the Department 
of National Community water supply
Closing date of applications of the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Post of Technical Officer Grade 
iii in the department of National community water supply under the State ministry of Rural and divisional drinking water 
Supply Projects development which mentioned the date as 23.05.2021 should be amended as 24.05.2021.
 H.  m. Jayathilaka herath, 
 director General. 
department of National community Water Supply, 
No. 1114, Pannipitiya Road, 
thalawathugoda,
21st may, 2021.
05–454
 
14. (a) are you attached to V olunteer armed forces ? if 
yes, application should be forwarded through the 
Commanding Officer of the respective force :                
––––––––––.
 (b) Have you been attached to V olunteer armed 
forces ? if yes, please attach a copy of the 
certificate of legal discharge : ––––––––––.
15. Have you ever been arrested on suspicion or in 
connection with any offence ? Have you ever been 
accused of an offence or summoned or punished by a 
court ? (if yes, please provide the details) :––––––––––.
16. Has any relative of yours ever been arrested on suspicion 
or in connection with any offence ? Has anyone ever 
been accused of an offence or summoned or punished 
by a court ? (if yes, please provide the details) :                         
––––––––––.
i certify that the above particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i am also aware that if any particulars contained 
herein are found to be false or incorrect, my service in the 
Police Service, in the event of appointed, is liable to be 
terminated without any compensation. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
17. Certificate of the Head of  the Department  :
 (only if relevant) :
i, hereby declare that mr. ......................... forwarding this 
application is serving in the department/corporation/Board 
of ....................... and that he can be released for the new post 
if he/she is selected for this post. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and stamp of the 
 Head of the department
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
05–478

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'05'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2021
1121
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
fOREIGN mINISTRy
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka foreign Service - 
2020(2021)
tHE Public Service commission has approved the following amendments to the "PaRt i : SEctioN (iia) adVERtiSiNG" 
of the Gazette  notification of the Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka 
foreign Service - 2020(2021) published in the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, No. 2/223 of 
09.04.2021. 
amENdmENt 
The closing date for applications for the above examination mentioned in Section 08(III) of the above notification is 
extended to 04.06.2021. 
Further, the maximum age limit specified in Section 04 of the notification shall remain the same as at the previous 
closing date for applications (i. e. 10.05.2021) given in the original Gazette notification. 
 admiral Prof. Jayanath Colombage, 
 Secretary, 
 foreign ministry.
foreign ministry, 
Republic Building, 
colombo 01, 
21st may, 2021. 
05–477