

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2141
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"985 – 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 15 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2016'09'15
No. 1,985 –  thuRsday ,  sEPtEmbER 15, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th  october, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd  september, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
21st June, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2139
Note.— animal Feed (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 17, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2016
2140
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2016
2141
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of fOREIGN AffAIRS
Competitive Examination for filling Vacancies 
in the Public management Assistants’ Service 
Cadre in Sri Lanka missions/Posts 
Abroad – 2015 (2016)
aPPLicatioNs are hereby invited to sit for the competitive 
examination conducted by the commissioner-General of 
Examinations, on behalf of the ministry of Foreign affairs 
to fill vacancies in the home-based Public management 
assistants’ cadre in sri Lanka missions abroad, from 
eligible officers of the Public management assistants’ 
service, Provincial Public management assistants’ service 
and Local Government Public management assistants’ 
service, to be held in colombo in december 2016.
02. eligibility.– applicants should meet the following 
eligibility criteria:
 (a)  Should be an officer in the Class I or Class II 
of the Public management assistants’ service/ 
Provincial Public management assistants’ 
service/ Local Government Public management 
assistants’ service, on the date of application. 
Note :		 Officers	 in	 other	 Management	 Assistant	
Services, not belonging to the above 
mentioned services, are not eligible to apply.
 (b) the post and the workplace of the applicant at 
the time of applying for the examination, will 
be applicable with regard to all aspects of the 
examination. after submitting the application, 
any changes thereto shall not be considered.
 (c) age should be less than 56 years on the closing 
date of applications.
 (d) should have earned on the due date, all the 
annual increments, falling within the five years 
immediately preceding the date of application. 
 (e) should not have been subjected to any form of 
disciplinary punishment, other than warning.
 (f) Should not be an officer presently attached to a 
sri Lanka mission abroad.
Note: 
 (i)  if an applicant who is eligible at the time of 
forwarding his/her application, is   subsequently 
promoted to a class/Grade higher than class i 
of the Public management assistants’ service/
Provincial Public management assistants’ 
service/Local Government Public management 
assistants’ service or appointed to a post in any 
other service, will cease to be eligible to fill a 
vacancy in the home-based Public management 
assistants’ cadre at sri Lanka missions abroad. it 
is the responsibility of such applicant to promptly 
inform the secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs 
in the event of any change in his/her official 
status that might have an impact on his/her 
eligibility under the clause (a) of this paragraph.
 (ii)  Preference will be given to officers with 
experience in accounts and  establishment work 
and have a good working knowledge of English 
/ other foreign languages (written and spoken). 
Working knowledge in other foreign languages 
will be considered as an added qualification.
 (iii)  Computer skills will be an added qualification 
and the extent of such skills must be stated in the 
application.
3. Method of Selection.– selection will be made on the 
basis of the written examination to be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and the interview to 
be conducted by the secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs, 
which will be held in colombo. 
 3.1 Written examination:- the written examination 
will consist of the following papers each of 
which will carry 100 marks.
                       
 Paper Duration
    
 Financial systems 2 hours
 Establishments code & office Procedures 2 hours
 English 2 hours
 General Knowledge  1 hour
Note :   1.  Accounting.– this question paper which 
will consist of objective and subject type 
questions is set to test the candidate’s  
practical knowledge of financial operations 
and accounting procedures of a Government 
institution. all questions should be answered.
 2.  Establishment and Office Procedures.– the 
questions in this objective and structured 
type of paper, are set to test the candidate’s 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2016
2142
practical knowledge of establishment 
and office procedures of a Government 
institution. all questions should be answered.
 3.  english.– this question paper is designed 
to test the candidate’s  knowledge in 
comprehension and written communication. 
all questions should be answered.
 4. General Knowledge.- this paper will consist 
of mcQs and short answer type questions 
on political, social, cultural and economic 
environment, history and geography of sri 
Lanka as well as current, international affairs. 
the candidates should answer all questions.  
 3.2 Interview :
 3.2.1 the interview will carry 100 marks and will 
be conducted by a board appointed by the 
secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs.
 3.2.2 those candidates who have obtained 40% 
marks or above in each paper with a total 
aggregate of 200 or above at the written 
examination will be eligible to be called 
for the interview.  however, in the event of 
the unavailability of a sufficient number of 
qualified candidates according to the above 
cut-off mark, the secretary to the ministry 
of Foreign affairs reserves the right to 
decide the cut-off mark.
 3.2.3 the list of applicants prepared in the 
alphabetical order who have qualified for 
the interview as per paragraph 3.2.2.will be 
sent to the secretary, ministry of Foreign 
affairs by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
  after receiving interview marks, the result 
sheet prepared on the basis of merit order 
of total aggregate marks obtained by the 
applicants at the written examination and 
the interview, will be sent to the secretary, 
ministry of Foreign affairs.
  in addition to that, examination results will 
be personally conveyed to all the applicants 
who appeared for the Examination.
4. Terms of engagement :
 4.1 after issuing letters of appointment to selected 
officers, in the event of an appointee failing 
to assume duties in the place of work to 
which he/she is attached within three months 
from the due date the appointment will be 
deemed as cancelled and appeals made in 
that connection will not be entertained. 
 4.2 Candidates after being selected to fill the 
vacancies, will be required to serve initially 
at the ministry of Foreign affairs in colombo 
for a specified period of one year, prior to 
being posted to a sri Lanka mission abroad.  
if the work and conduct of a candidate 
during this initial period of service at the 
ministry are found to be unsatisfactory, his/
her selection is liable to be cancelled. 
 
 4.3  Posting will be decided on the basis of 
requirements of respective missions and 
the officer’s suitability and competence (in 
foreign language etc.).  in deciding such 
posting, there is no obligation on the part of 
the Ministry to consider the officer’s personal 
needs and grievances (children education 
etc.) and the officer should report for duty 
at the mission assigned by the ministry, 
irrespective of their personal preferences.
     4.4  An officer selected on being posted to a Sri 
Lanka mission abroad, is normally required to 
serve abroad for a period of three years on the  
terms and conditions  stipulated by the secretary, 
ministry of Foreign affairs and to enter into an 
agreement to that effect. on completion of their 
tour of duty, the officer should return to Sri Lanka. 
 4.5  The selected officers while serving at a Sri 
Lanka mission abroad, will continue to receive 
their substantive salaries paid in colombo.  in 
addition, the officer will be paid an overseas 
allowance during their period of service abroad.
 4.6  Once an officer is selected, cost of return 
air passage from sri Lanka to the country of 
posting, accommodation and other facilities 
during his/her service abroad, in respect of 
the selected officer,   his/her spouse and for 
a maximum of two children who are below 
21 years of age and dependent on the officer 
only, will be met by the Government as 
determined by the secretary/Foreign affairs. 
5. Method of application : 
 5.1 the application forms should be prepared on an 
a4 size paper as per the specimen appended to 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2016
2143
this notification, containing items from 01-05 
on the first page, 06-14 on the second page and 
the rest on the third page. applications which 
are not in conformity with the specimen and 
those not providing the required details will 
be rejected without any notice. applicants are 
advised to keep copies of their applications.
 
 5.2 on the applications in sinhala and tamil, the name 
of the Examination should be clearly indicated 
in English, in addition to sinhala or tamil.
 5.3  applications should be forwarded through 
the respective heads of department with the 
recommendation and endorsement from head of 
department on the eligibility of the applicant for 
service in missions abroad and the correctness 
of details given in the application. the head 
of department should also state whether 
the applicant, if selected, can be released 
immediately from the present post. 
 5.4 a pplications should be forwarded by registered 
post to reach the “commissioner-General of 
Examinations, organization & Foreign Examination 
branch, department of  Examinations, P. o box 
1503, colombo” on or before 13th october 2016 
and should be marked “Examination for selection 
of Management Assistants to fill vacancies in 
sri Lanka missions abroad” on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope. 
     
6. examination Fees.– Examination fee of Rs. 500/- 
should be paid at any Post office / sub Post offices in 
sri Lanka to the credit of Revenue head 2003-02-13 
of the commissioner General of Examinations, and the 
receipt obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage of 
the application. details of the receipt such as number, the 
office money is paid to, date and the amount paid, should be 
indicated in the relevant space.  Receipt obtained by paying 
Examination fees through any other mode of postal/money 
orders or stamps will not be accepted.  it will be appropriate 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt. under no circumstances 
will the Examination fees be refunded.
7. incomplete applications will be rejected.  No allegation 
that an application has been lost or delayed in the post will 
be considered.  No applications received after the closing 
date will be accepted.
8. Admission to sit for the examination :
 8.1 applications will not be acknowledged.  
 8.2  the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to all the applicants 
who are within the age limit specified in the 
notification provided. The duly perfected 
applications should forwarded on or before the 
closing date  with the receipts for payment of 
the due Examination fee  affixed on to them.  
as soon as the admission cards are issued 
to the prospective candidates, a notification 
will be published in the newspapers by the 
department of Examinations, sri Lanka to 
that effect.  applicants who have not received 
their admission cards at least prior  to three 
days of the Examination, should  inform the 
department of Examinations, sri Lanka as 
instructed in the newspaper notification. Such 
applicants may inquire from the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka about the non-receipt 
of admission cards, indicating the applicant’s 
name in full, address, National identity 
card  No. and the name of the Examination 
applied for along with the photo copies of the 
application form, the receipt issued on payment 
of Examination fees and the receipt issued 
when sending the application by registered 
post. outstation applicants are advised to fax a 
letter of request together with the above details 
to the department of Examinations, sri Lanka 
to enable the department of Examinations, 
sri Lanka to fax a copy of  admission card. 
  8.3 a  candidate presenting hisself/herself for the 
Examination must produce his/her admission card 
with attestation of signature to the supervisor of 
the Examination centre. a candidate who fails 
to produce his/her admission card as mentioned 
above will not be permitted to sit for the 
Examination.
  8.4 a  candidate must sit for the Examination at 
the Examination hall assigned to him/her.  all 
candidates should surrender their admission 
cards on the first day of the Examination to 
the supervisor.  a set of rules to be observed 
by all candidates is published in the Gazette. 
the candidates are subjected to all rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. if such rules or 
regulations are violated, the candidate would have 
to face a penalty imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
  t he decision of the commissioner General of 
Examinations will be final  with  regard  to  the  conduct  
of  Examination   and   the   issuance  of  results.
 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2016
2144
 8.5 issuance of admission card to a candidate shall 
not be in any way treated as that candidate had 
satisfied all the qualifications for the examination. 
9. Medium of examination :– 
 9.1  the Examination will be conducted in sinhala, 
tamil and English medium. candidates will not 
be allowed to change the medium applied for, 
subsequently.
 9.2  a  candidate is required to answer all question 
papers in one language only, except the English 
Language paper.    
 
10. Penalty for Furnishing False Information : 
 10.1  if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate 
are found to be false within his/her knowledge, 
or if he/she willfully suppressed any material 
fact, he/she will be liable for dismissal from 
the Public service, and therefore, he/she 
will be ineligible to sit for the examination.
 10.2  if a candidate is found to be ineligible to sit for 
this examination at any stage prior to, during 
or after the examination, his/her candidature is 
liable to be rejected. 
11. Identity of Candidate.– a candidate will be required 
to prove his/her identity at the Examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject he/she offers.  
For this purpose any of the following documents will be 
accepted:
 (a)  National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (b) Valid Passport.
12. decision of the secretary of Foreign affairs will 
be the final with regard to recruitments.
13.  in case of any divergence in the text of this 
notification published in sinhala, tamil and English, the 
sinhala text will prevail.
 
 
esala Weerakoon,
 secretary/ Foreign affairs.
ministry of Foreign affairs,
P.o. box 583, Republic building,
colombo 01,
08th august 2016.
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN FoRm
application for the competitive examination for filling vacancies in the public management assistants’ 
service cadre in sri lanka missions/posts abroad – 2015(2016)
     
part a
the service you belong to :  
(Give the relevant number in the box)
Public management assistants' service - 1
Provincial Public management assistants' service - 2 For office use
Local Government Public management assistants' service - 3
    
medium in which the applicant wishes to sit for the examination :
sinhala - 2
tamil  - 3
English - 4 (Give the relevant number in the box)
1.0 1.1 Name in Full (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
  (eg.: hERath mudiyaNsELaGE samaN KumaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 1.2 Name with the Last Name First and initials of other Names at the End (in block letters) :––––––––––––.  
(eg.: GuNaWaRdhaNa h.m.s.K.)  
 1.3 Name in Full (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 to which address admission cards should be sent : (in English block letters) :––––––––––––.
 2.2  Permanent address (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
          telephone No. :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2016
2145
 2.3  official address (in English block letters) :––––––––––––.
          telephone No. :––––––––––––.
3.0 3.1  sex : Female - 1
          male     - 0    (Give the relevant number in the box)
 3.2  National identity card No. :                        
 3.3 date of birth :
          year :   month :  date :
 3.4 age as at the closing date of application:   
      years : months : days :
4.0   4.1  service : Public management assistants service/Provincial Public management  assistants service /Local 
Government Public management assistants service (delete whichever is inapplicable)  :––––––––––.                                                      
 4.2  date of first appointment to the Public service/ Provincial service/Local Government service and Language 
medium. (delete whichever is inapplicable) :––––––––––.
5.0      5.1  civil status: married – 2
        single   – 1              (Give the relevant number in the box)
  5.2  if married, number of children :––––––––––.
          their dates of birth and ages :––––––––––.
6.0   if the spouse is employed, give details :––––––––––.  
7.0 Educational Qualifications (with language medium) :––––––––––.
8.0  date of Promotion to :  
 8.1 class ii :––––––––––.
 8.2 class i   :––––––––––.
 8.3 the class which the applicant is currently attached to and the date of appointment for the same :––––––––––.
9.0  Present annual salary :––––––––––.
10.0   Experience (Give the number of years) :
 10.1  accounts :––––––––––.
 10.2 Establishment Procedures :––––––––––.
11.0  Proficiency :––––––––––. 
   Reading Writing speaking
 (a)  sinhala Language                    
       (b)  tamil Language
 (c)  English Language
 (d) any other Foreign Language
12.0  ability :  
 12.1 typing (sinhala/tamil/English) :  ……………..
 12.2 computer Literacy (Give details) :  ……………
13.0 if the applicant has previously served at any sri Lanka mission abroad, give the names of the mission with dates  
:––––––––––.
14.0 any other qualifications :––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2016
2146
15.0 the receipt issued by the Post office/sub Post office on payment of examination fees  should be affixed in the cage 
below. (retain a photocopy of the receipt)
  1. Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
  2. Post office/ sub Post office :––––––––––––.
  3. date :––––––––––––.
  4. amount :––––––––––––.
16.0.  applicant’s certificate:
i do hereby declare that i have earned all increments falling due in the 5 years immediately preceding 
……………….2016 and have not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment.  i also declare that to the best of my 
knowledge the information furnished in this application is true and accurate. i am aware that if any  information is found 
to be incorrect or false, before, during or after the examination, the secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs has the right to 
cancel my candidature/ or appointment. 
i also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel 
my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that i am ineligible according to the regulations of 
this examination. 
i further declare that i will be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in relation to examination procedure and issuing results. 
 –––––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
part b
(To be filled by the Head of Department)
i declare that i have verified that mr./mrs./miss…….……………………………......………., is in class i/class ii of the 
Public management assistants service/ Provincial Government Public management assistants service/Local Government 
Public management assistants service,
 (a) has earned all increments during the 5 years immediately preceding ................ 2016
 (b) and has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment during the 5 years immediately preceding 
……………….2016 and that the information furnished in the application is true. i hereby certify that the 
examination fees have been paid and the receipt is attached herewith. 
 Recommendation : 
  (i) the applicant is eligible/ ineligible for service in missions abroad 
  (ii) the applicant can/ cannot be released, if selected.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the head of department with the official Frank.
designation :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
09–704
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.