

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1897
1897
wxl 1"933 - 2015 iema;eïn¾ ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'09'18
No. 1,933 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 18, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1900
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1909
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th October, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th
September,  2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.—  Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,932 of  11.09.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1898
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1899
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1900
Posts – Vacant
DEPARTMENT   OF   INLAND  REVENUE
Category of Primary Level Employees of the Department
of Inland Revenue (PL2-2006) Calling of applications for
the post of Carpenter
APPLICATIONS are invited  from male candidates who are with
following qualifications  for the  post of Carpenter, Primary Level
Employees category.
02. Applications prepared in accordance with the following
specimen application must be sent to the Commissioner General of
Inland Revenue, No. 155, Sir  Chiththampalam A Gardiner Mawatha,
Colombo 02. Applications must be sent under, registered cover to
reach on or before 19.10.2015, mentioning "Recruitment to the Post
of Carpenter- 2015" on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application.   Action will not be taken with regards to
delayed applications and  applications will not be issued by the
Department of Inland Revenue.
03. Number  of vacancies and filling vacancies. – Number of
vacancies in the Post of Carpenter - 01
04.  Salary Scale.– Salary scale pertaining to the post :Rs. 12,210
- 10 x 130 - 11 x 160 - 12 x 170 -  Rs. 18,600   (PL 2-2006 A)
05. Qualifications :
5.1 Educational Qualifications :
(i)  Should have passed at least six (06) subjects with
two credits  in the  G.C.E. (Ordinary Level)
examination in not more than in two sittings.
5.2 Professional Qualifications.– Should have  obtained a
certificate  having followed a full time  course at least in
Level 2 of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ)
pertaining to carpentry works as recommended by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
5.2.2 Experience.– Should have obtained an experience not
less than 03 years in a post of Carpenter from a
recognized Institution registered under Company's Act.
5.3 Physical Qualifications .– All the candidates should
possess with adequate physical and mental condition to
be served in any area of the island and to perform duties
of the post.
5.4  Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (ii) Should possess with an excellent character
     (iii) Qualifications to be recruited to the post must be
completed in every respect as at the closing date of
applications.
(iv) Only the male candidates are qualified to be applied.
5.5 Age.– Candidates should not be less than Eighteen (18)
years and not more than Forty five (45) years as at the
closing date of the application.
06. Method of Recruitment. – For the qualified candidates in
accordance with the applications, a  vocational test will be held by an
institution or an examination board approved by the Commissioner
General and   Structural Interview will be held for the qualified
candidates by an interview board appointed by the Commissioner
General.
Candidates will  be recruited for the post of Carpenter  in
accordance with the vacancies available  on the order of the marks  of
both  vocational training and the structural interview.
6.1 Vocational Test :
Subjects Duration Maximum Cut off
marks marks
Subject Vocational ½ hour 100 60%
test - Carpenter
6.1.1 Syllabus.– Successfully completion of   a carpentry
good, repair or a duty named by the Examiner
6.2 Structural Interview :
Items of scoring Maximum Minimum
marks marks
Additional educational qualifications 50
Additional experience 20
Additional vocational qualifications 25
Skills at the interview 05
Total 100
Note.– Marks will be given at the structural interview on a
comprehensive marking scheme approved by me within
the maximum marks reserved for the main sectors depicted
in the above table.
07. Furnishing False Information.– Accurate information should
be furnished carefully in filling the application. If a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled by the
Appointing Authority at any stage prior to, during or after the
examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished false
information he/she shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1901
08. Conditions of Appointments. – This post is permanent,
pensionable, and shall contribute to the Widows' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
09. Conditions of Service :
(i) This appointment is subject to probationary period of
three years.
(ii) First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed within
three years from the date of recruitment.
(iii) A selected candidate shall be appointed to the Post of
Carpenter subject to the  general conditions of governing
appointments in the public service, provisions approved
in relation to the Post of Carpenter and any amendments
and due amendments to these provisions approved by
the Public Service Commission through its letter
No. PSC/EST /4/1/2/1/2012 dated 24.03.2014.
10. Implementation of State Language Policy.– In accordance with
Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and dated 21.01.2014
issued by the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
and its related circulars, all officers appointed must achieved other
state languages efficiency within five years of appointed to state
service in addition to state language of recruited to public service.
11. Application Procedure :
(a) Preparation of Application.– Application must be prepared
in accordance with the application format attached to this
notice. If not, application will be rejected.
Application should be on paper size (l2cm x 29cm /8.5"
x  12" / A4) using both sides.
(b) Attestation of Applicant's Signature.– The Signature of the
applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government
School,  Commissioner of Oaths, Notary Public,
Commissioned Officer  of all three forces, an Officer holding
a Gazette  post in the Police Service, a permanent
Government Servant with an annual salary of Rs. 240,360/
-  or above.  If the candidate is an employee of Government/
Local Government Service, the signature should be attested
by the Head of the Department.
12. Any matter not mentioned here will be decided by the
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue.   All candidates are obliged
to follow rules and regulations mentioned in the Gazette notification
and conditions of this notice.
(Note: Travelling expenses or any other expenses will not be paid
for the applicants who are going to participate in examinations
or interviews.)
K
ALYANI DAHANAYAKE,
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue.
At Department of Inland Revenue,
31st August, 2015.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF CARPENTER IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF INLAND REVENUE - 2015
01. ( a) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(in English block letters) Ex: (GUNAWARDHANA ,
M. G . B. S. K.)
(b) Name in full   :–––––––––––.
(in English block letters)
(c) Name in Full  :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
02. ( a) Permanent Address  :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
 (b) Permanent Address  :–––––––––––.
(in English block letters)
(c) Police Station with respect to permanent address  :––––––.
03. Sex :
Female - 1 Male - 0
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
05. Whether married or single:
Single - 1 Married - 2
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
06. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––. Month :–––––––––. Date :–––––––––.
07. Age as at the closing date of applications (19.10.2015) :
Years :–––––––––.   Months :–––––––––. Days :––––––––––.
08. Citizenship : (by descent/registration) :–––––––––––.
09. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications:
G .C.E. (O/L)  Examination - First sitting :
(i) Year of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No.  :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination  :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
First Sitting

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1902
G .C.E. (O/L)  Examination - Second sitting :
(i) Year of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No.  :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination  :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
Second Sitting
G .C.E. (A/L)  Examination - First sitting :
(i) Year of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No.  :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination  :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
First Sitting
G .C.E. (A/L)  Examination - Second sitting :
(i) Year of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No.  :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination  :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
Second Sitting
11. Professional  Qualifications :
Name  of the course   Institution   Duration        Proficiency
12.  Experience :
Work place   Designation Period of service
.........................................................................................................
.........................................................................................................
.........................................................................................................
.........................................................................................................
13. Have you ever been dismissed from a government post due to a
disciplinary reason or  convicted by a court of any offence (If so
give particulars) :–––––––––––––.
14. Certificate of the Applicant :
(i) I declare that particulars given in this form are true to the
best of my knowledge. Also, I declare that I bear the loss
will cause due to incomplete filling of certain parts and/or
incorrectly filling the application. Further, I state that I
have filled all parts completely and correctly.
(ii) I am also aware if I have provided any false information
my candidature will be cancelled before or after the
examination and if so found after selection I am liable to be
dismissed from the service.
(iii) I declare that, before filling this application, I clearly read
and released all facts in the notification, and agree to all
terms and conditions.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
15. Attestation of the Applicant's Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ (Full name)
is personally, known to me and he/she has placed his/her signature in
my presence on ..........................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
(Official frank should be placed)
16.  Certificate of the Head of the Department/Information :
I declare that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .....................................
is an employee of this Department/Institution. His/her work and
conduct are satisfactory and that he/she is qualified to apply for this
post as per the Gazette Notification and that he/she can be released/
cannot be released from service if selected for the post. (Cut of
unnecessary words).
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department/Institution.
Signature of the Attester.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
(Official frank should be placed)
09–304/2

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1903
DEPARTMENT   OF   INLAND  REVENUE
Calling Applications for the Post of Front Desk Officer,
belongs to the Segment 2 of Non-technical Public
Management Assistant of the Department of Inland
Revenue
APPLICATIONS are invited  from the candidates who are with
following qualifications  for the  post of Front Desk Officer, Grade
III of Segment 02 - Non-technical of the Department of Inland
Revenue.
02. The applications prepared in accordance with the following
specimen application must be sent to the Commissioner General of
Inland Revenue, No. 155, Sir  Chiththampalam A Gardiner Mawatha,
Colombo 02. Applications must be sent under, registered cover to
reach on or before 19.10.2015, mentioning "Recruitment to the Post
of Front Desk Officer - 2015" on the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application.   Action will not be taken with
regards to delayed applications and  applications will not be issued
by the Department of Inland Revenue.
03. Number  of vacancies and filling Vacancies. – Number of
vacancies in the Post of Front Desk Officer - 01
04.  Salary Scale.– Salary scale pertaining to the post : Rs. 13,120
- 10 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 10 x 240 -  10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
05. Qualifications :
(1) Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed Six (06) Subjects in the G . C. E.
(Ordinary Level) Examination at one sitting with Credit
passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, English Language,
Mathematics and two other subjects ;
and
Should have passed at least One subject (01) in the
G . C. E. (Advanced Level) (Except the General Test
Paper).
(2)  Professional Qualifications :
1. Should have  followed a Typing and Basic Computer
Course from a recognized Institution of the Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission.
2. Should be fluent in speaking Sinhala and English
languages. If the Tamil language is not the medium
of the candidate, having an ordinary knowledge on it
would be a special qualification.
3. Experience.– Should have an experience for a period
not less than 02 years in the sector.
4. Physical Qualifications.– All the candidates should
possess with adequate physical and mental condition
to be served in any area of the island and perform
the duties of the post.
5. Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) Should possess with an excellent character,
     (iii) Qualifications to be recruited to the post must be
completed in every respect as at the closing date of
applications.
Age.– Candidates should not be less than eighteen (18)
years and not more than thirty (30) years.
06. Method of Recruitment.– In accordance with the applications
a Structural Interview will be held for the qualified candidates by an
interview board appointed by the Commissioner General of Inland
Revenue and recruitments for the post of Front Desk Officer will be
made on the order of the marks scored at the said interview.
07. Structural Interview :
Items of scoring Maximum
marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Additional V ocational Qualifications 25
Additional experience 25
Language Proficiency 15
Computer and IT literacy 10
Skills at the interview 05
Total 100
08. Furnishing False Information.– Accurate information should
be furnished carefully in filling the application. If a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a
candidate has furnished  information with knowledge that they are
false or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact he shall be
liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
09. Conditions of Appointments. – This post is permanent,
pensionable, and shall contribute to the Widows' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subject to probationary period of
three years.
(b) First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed within
three years from the date of recruitment.
(c) A selected candidate shall be appointed to the Post of
Front Desk Officer on the  general conditions of governing
appointments in the public service, provisions approved
in relation to the Post of Front Desk Officer and any
amendments and due amendments to these provisions
approved by the Public Service Commission through its
letter No. PSC/EST /3/1/3/2013 dated 14.08.2014.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1904
11. Selection Procedure.– Recruitments will be made as per the
availability of vacancies on the highest marks obtained at the structural
interview.
12. Implementation of State Language Policy.– In accordance with
Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and dated 21.01.2014
issued by the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
and its related circulars, all officers appointed must achieved other
state languages efficiency within five years of appointed to state
service in addition to state language of recruited to public service.
13. Application Procedure :
(a) Preparation of Application.– Application must be prepared
in accordance with the application format attached to this
notice. If not, application will be rejected.
Application should be on paper size(l2cm x 29cm /8.5" x
12" / A4) using both sides.
(b) Attestation of Applicant's Signature.– The Signature of the
applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government
School,  Commissioner of Oaths, Notary Public,
Commissioned Officer  of all three forces, an Officer holding
a Gazette post in the Police Service, a permanent
Government Servant with an annual salary of Rs. 240,360
or above.  If the candidate is an employee of Government/
Local Government Service, the signature should be attested
by the Head of the Department.
14. Any matter not mentioned here will be decided by the
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue.   All candidates are obliged
to follow rules and regulations mentioned in the Gazette notification
and conditions of this notice.
(Note: Travelling expenses or any other expenses will not be paid
for the applicants who are going to participate in examinations
or interviews.)
K
ALYANI DAHANAYAKE,
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue.
At Department of Inland Revenue,
31st August, 2015.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF FRONT DESK OFFICER IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF INLAND REVENUE - 2015
01. ( a) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(in English block letters) Ex: (GUNAWARDHANA ,
M. G . B. S. K.)
(b) Name in full   :–––––––––––.
(in English block letters)
(c) Name in Full  :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
02. ( a) Permanent Address  :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
 (b) Permanent Address  :–––––––––––.
(in English block letters)
(c) Police Station with respect to permanent address  :––––––.
03. Sex :
Female - 1 Male - 0
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
05. Whether married or single:
Single - 1 Married - 2
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
06. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––. Month :–––––––––. Date :–––––––––.
07. Age as at the closing date of applications (19.10.2015) :
Years :–––––––––.   Months :–––––––––. Days :––––––––––.
08. Citizenship : (by descent/registration) :–––––––––––.
09. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications:
G .C.E. (O/L)  Examination  :
(i) Year of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No.  :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination  :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
G .C.E. (A/L)  Examination :
(i) Year of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No.  :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination  :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
11. Professional  Qualifications :–––––––––––.
12. Experience :–––––––––––.
13. Have you ever been dismissed from a government post due to a
disciplinary reason or convicted by a court of any offence (If so
give particulars) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1905
14. Certificate of the Applicant :
(i) I declare that particulars given in this form are true to the
best of my knowledge. Also, I declare that I bear the loss
will cause due to incomplete filling of certain parts and/or
incorrectly filling the application. Further, I state that I
have filled all parts completely and correctly.
(ii) I am also aware if I have provided any false information
my candidature will be cancelled before or after the
examination and if so found after selection I am liable to be
dismissed from the service.
(iii) I declare that, before filling this application, I clearly read
and released all facts in the notification, and agree to all
terms and conditions.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
15. Attestation of the Applicant’s Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ (Full name)
is personally, known to me and he/she has placed his/her signature in
my presence on ..........................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Full Name of the Attestor :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
(Official frank should be placed)
16.  Certificate of the Head of the Department/Information:
I declare that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .....................................
is an employee of this Department/Institution. His/her work and
conduct are satisfactory and that he/she is qualified to apply for this
post as per the Gazette Notification and that he/she can be released/
cannot be released from service if selected for the post. (Cut of
unnecessary words).
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department/Institution.
Signature of the Attestor.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
(Official frank should be placed)
09–304/1
PUBLIC   SERVICES  COMMISSION
Recruitment for the Post of Legal Officer (Executive
Services Grade III) on Open Basis
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for
the post of Legal Officer in the Ministry of Lands.
01. Method of Recruitment. – The applicant who obtained
maximum marks from a structured interview conducted by an
interview panel appointed by the Public Services Commission out
of applicants who have completed qualifications mentioned above
will be recruited for the vacancy. Structured interview will be held in
conformity with the marking scheme given (under No. 6) approved
by the Public Services Commission.
02. Qualifications :
(i) Educational/Professional Qualifications.– Should have
possessed a degree in Law obtained from a university
recognized by the University Grants Commission or
having taking oaths as an Attorney-at-Law.
(ii) Experience.– Should have an active professional service
period not less than 3 years after taking oaths as an
Attorney-at-Law.
(iii) Physical Qualifications. – Every applicant should be
physically and mentally fit to service and to perform
duties of the post in any part of Sri Lanka.
(iv) Other :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
* Should be of excellent character,
* Requisite qualifications for this post should have been
completed in every aspect as at the closing date.
03. Service occupying conditions and service conditions :
I. This post is permanent and pensionable. Selected
applicants should contribute to the Widow's/Widower's
and Orphans Pensions Scheme.
II. The selected applicants will be subject to a probation
period of three (3) years. Officers should pass the First
Efficiency Bar Examination within three years of the
appointment to the Post of Legal Officer - Grade III.
III. The Officers recruited not in the medium of offficial
language should obtain the proficiency in the official
language during the probation period in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 1/2014 and circulars
incidental thereto.
IV . This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules and
provisions of Establishments Code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1906
04. Age limit.– The applicants should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age by the closing date of calling
application.
05. Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale entitled to this post. Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x 790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Salary Scale
SL 1-2006A as per Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006)
06. Marking scheme for the structured interview :
Subject Marks Maximum
Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications  :2 0
Degree in Law obtained from a recognized university
- First Class 20
- Second Class (upper) 15
- Second Class (lower) 10
- First Class in the final year of Law College 15
- Second Class in the final year of Law College 10
Note.– 10 marks to be given only if the final exam is passes with a Hons. Pass.
(marks will be given only for maximum qualifications - either LLB or Law College Qualifications)
02. Additional Professional Qualifications  :1 5
Post Graduate Diploma in relevant field or Post Graduate Diploma in law issued by a recognized institute
(Academic period not less than one year)
(5 marks each for one diploma)
Diploma in relevant field offered by a recognized institute (Academic period not less than six months)
(3 marks each for one Diploma)
Certificate in relevant field offered by a recognized institute (Academic period not less than three months)
(2 marks each for one certificate)
03. Additional Experience : 30
Experience as an Attorney-at-Law in Public or Private sector - more than six months and less than a
year - 02 marks
Maximum 30 marks - five marks per one year each.
(Except three years of service period engaged in service as an Attorney-at-Law to acquire basic
qualifications)
(Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate issued by an Attorney-at-Law or
President's Counsel or a Judge with a service period not less than 20 years)
04. Literacy in Information Technology : 15
For studying Information Technology as a main subject in a degree offered by a university recognized 15
by the University Grants Commission
For a diploma in Information Technology, academic period not less than one year or 1500 hours in a 10
government recognized institute
A certificate for Information Technoloyg in a government recognized institute
06 months/720 hours 07
03 months/360 hours 05

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1907
Subject Marks Maximum
Marks
05 Proficiency in English Language : 15
Post Graduate/Degree/Post LLB degree/LLB degree studied in English medium. ((All relevant question 15
papers should be answered in English medium)
English Language Diploma from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or an 10
institution recognized by the government (01 year or 1500 hours)
English Language Certificate course conducted by a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission or an institution recognized by the government
06 months/720 hours 07
03 months/360 hours 05
06 Marks to be given by interview board for skills shown at the interview 05 05
Total Marks 100
07. Identity of the Candidate. – Only the applicants who have submitted fully completed applications in every aspect will be
invited for the structured interview.
original copies of all certificates and duly certified copies should be submitted at the interview. Any of the following documents
will be accepted to confirm the identity at the interview :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) Valid passport.
08. (a) Applications should be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or before 19.10.2015. Late applications
will be rejected :
Secretary,
Ministry of Lands,
No. 1200/6, Mihikatha Medura,
Rajamalwatta Avenue,
Battaramulla.
(b) Specimen of the application is given at the end of this application. Applications should be prepared in A4 size papers
using both sides indicating No. 01 to 11 in the first page and the rest in the second page.
(c) "Recruitment for the post of Legal officer" should be clearly mentioned in the top left corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
(d) Applicant's signature placed in the application should be attested by a principal of a government school/Justice of Peace/
Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney at Law/Notary Public/A Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy or Air Force or an
officer earning a monthly consolidated salary of  Rs. 22,935.
(e) Those who are in public service or Provincial Service at present should forward their application through the heads of
their respective department.
(f) Applications not in conformity with the specimen herewith will be rejected. Any complaint regarding loss or delay of the
application will not be accepted.
09. Furnishing false Information.– Your candidature is liable to be cancelled if it is found before recruitment that any information
furnished by you in your application is false or incorrect.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1908
It is found after the recruitment that you have furnished
information that is false or incorrect you will be liable for dismissal
from the Public Service subject to the relevant procedure.
10. Public Services Commission has the power to fill or not fill
the vacancy.
By order of the Public Services Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Lands.
No. 1200/6, Mihikatha Medura,
Rajamalwatta Avenue,
Battaramulla.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER MINISTRY OF LANDS
No. :.........................
(For office use only)
01. ( a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Name with initials (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
(b) Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Full Name (in English block capital) :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Permanent Address (in English block capital) :––––––––––––.
03. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
05. Sex :––––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
07. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
08. Particulars in respect of the degree in Law :
University :––––––––––––.
Date the degree was offered :––––––––––––.
Medium :––––––––––––.
09. Date on which the applicant took oaths as an Attorney-at-Law
:––––––––––––.
10. Professional Experience as an Attorney-at-Law No. of years :
––––––––––––.
11. Other Educational Qualifications :––––––––––––.
12. Language proficiency (mark  in relevant column) :
Very good Good Ordinary Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English
13. Declaration of the Applicant :
I ........................ declare that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and correct, I certify that I have not been
subject to any form of disciplinary action including dismissal from
the service or retirement for general inefficiency as a merciful
alternative to dismissal and I have not vacated the post previously. I
am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be
false or incorrect. I am liable to disqualification if detected before
selection and to dismissal without compensation, if detected after
appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
14. Attestation of signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. of
.................. who signed here is personally known to me and placed
his/her signature in my presence.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the person attesting.
The Attestor’s
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
15. Certificate of the Head of the Department if the applicant is in
the Public Service :
I hereby inform that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... is serving
in this Ministry/Department as a permanent/temporary/casual
................... and that he/she can be/cannot be released if selected for
this post.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––––––.
09-442

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1909
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
AMENDMENT
RECRUITMENT  (OPEN/LIMITED)  TO  THE  POST  OF
PERFUSIONIST  IN  GRADE  II  OF  INFIELD/INOFFICE,
OFFICER  SEGMENT  02  SERVICE  CATEGORY
(MN 05-2006A)
(Further to the Gazette notification with the above title published in
the Government Gazette No. 1928 dated 14.08.2015).
IT should be noted that the post of Perfusionist is not a promotion
in the Nursing Service and the post of Perfusionist is a New
recruitment.
And, according to the above Gazette , the closing date of
applications is 11.09.2015 and it is kindly informed that the closing
date is amended as 25.09.2015.
Dr. D. M. R. B. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine.
09–399
–––––––––––––––––––
AMENDMENT
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Open/Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment
to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Agricultural
Service - 2013(2014)
THE Gazette Notification on Open/Limited Competitive Examination
2013(2014) for recruitment to the posts in Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Agricultural Service published in the Gazette No. 1929 dated
21.08.2015 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is
amended as follows :
(i) Paragraph 6.1.3. – “The age should not be less than 22
years and not more than 35 years as at the closing date of
applications. Accordingly an applicant qualifies to sit the
examination in terms of age only if his/her date of birth falls
on or before 21.09.1993 and on or after 21.09.1980.
(ii) Paragraph 9.3.– The name of the examination appeared
either Sinhala or Tamil Language in the application is required
to be printed in English Language also. Applications should
be sent only by registered post to reach the "Commissioner
General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch, Sri Lanka Departmen tof Examination,
P. O. Box 1503, Colombo” on or before 5th October 2015.
The words “Open/Limited Competitive Examination for
Recruitment to the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service -
2013(2014)” should be clearly marked on the top left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture.
Rajamalwatte Avenue,
Battaramulla,
04th of September, 2015.
09–447
–––––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY   BAR   EXAMINATION   PRESCRIBED
FOR   OFFICERS   IN  SEGMENT   "B"   AND   SEGMENT
"A"   OF   CLASS   II  OF   THE   SRI   LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL   SERVICE  -  2015
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved service
minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service, the above mentioned
examinations will be held by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, in Colombo, in the month of December 2015.
02.(i) These examinations will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates
will be bound by the ruels and regulations prescribed by
him in respect of conducting the examination and issuing
the results. The candidates will be subjected to a
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, if such rules are violated by them.
(ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at
the beginning of this Gazette notification.
03. The specimen application for admission to this examination
is published at the end of this notification. Candidates are required to
prepare their applications in accordance with the specimen form and
officers of Sri Lanka Technological Service in the public service should
forward their applications through the respective head of department
and officers of Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Provincial
Public Service should forward their applications through the Secretary
of PSC in the Provincial Council where they serve, by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo on or before 19th of October
2015. The top left corner of the envelope containing the application
should bear clearly the title of the examination. Applications received
after the closing date of application will be rejected.
04. Identity cards.– Candidates should prove their identity at the
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1910
they offer. For this purpose any of the following documents will be
accepted :
(a) An Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish any of
the above documents is liable to cancellation on the discretion of
Commisioner General of Examinations.
05. Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 in size.
No. 01 to 06 should appear on the first page whilst the
rest should appear on other pages. Applications could be
typed but they should be completed correctly and legibly
by the candidate in his/her own handwriting and in the
language medium in which the candidate sits this
examination.
(ii) When the application form is prepared, the title of the
examination appearing in the specimen should be indicated
in English Language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. Applications which are incomplete
and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form
will be rejected without any notice. It is the responsibility
of the candidate to make sure that the appilcation form
perfected by him/her self complies with the specimen
given in the examination notice and it would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
(iii) The candidates appearing for the whole examination or
one subject for the first time need not pay examination
fees. However, for subsequent sittings, a fee of Rs. 400
should be paid for the whole examination and if only one
subject is offered, a fee of Rs. 200 should be paid. The fee
can be paid at any Post Office or Sub post office in the
Island to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examination and the receipt
obtained thus should be affixed firmly in the relevant
cage. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
receipt with the candidate. Under no circumstance, will
the fee be refunded not transferred in respect of other
examinations.
(iv) This examination is held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media. Applicants should select one medium relevant to
them and they should answer the question papers in one
and the same language selected by them. The medium
they applied for is not allowed to change at a later occasion.
(v) An officer is not allowed to sit for both Efficiency Bar
Examinations at one and the same occasion.
(vi) The officers who have been appointed to Segment II ‘B’
of Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the closing date of
the application can sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination
in Segment II ‘B’.
(vii) However, the officers in segment II A as well as the officers
in Class II segment ‘B’ who have completed a service
period of five years and passed the 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination can sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination in
class II segment ‘A’.
06. On the supposition that only the candidates who have
possessed the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette have submitted
applications, the Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to the applicants who have submitted perfected
applications indicating the medium of language, examination applied
for, signature of the applicant and the attestation of the signature,
attestation of the Head of the Department along with the receipt of
payment of the examination fee, if relevant, on or before the closing
date of examination. A candidate sitting for the examination must
produce his admission card which bears the candidate's signature and
duly attested to the supervisor of the examination center. A candidate
who fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted to sit
the examination. A notification will be published in newspapers as
soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations : i. e. certified photocopies of the
application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of
registration. In case of applicants outside Colombo, a letter of request
with a fax number to which the admission card should be sent and
other particulars mentioned above should be sent to the Department
of Examination by fax.
07. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have
failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in para (06) above will not
be considered.
08. Officers may, if they so which, present themselves for different
subjects separately at different examinations. However, in order to
secure a pass at least 40% of the marks should be obtained in respect
of each question paper.
09. Issue of the results of the examination.– In accordance with
the particulars indicated in para 3 above, the results of the candidates
belonging to Provincial Public Service will be issued to the Secretary
of the respective Provincial Public Service Commission and the results
of the candidates belonging to public service will be issued to the
Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration.
10. Scheme of Examinations :
(1) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment "B" will consist of 02 question papers.
Subject No. (01) - Office Administration and
Establishments Code - (Two hours)
- 100 marks

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1911
Subject No. (02) - Financial Regulations - (Two hours)
- 100 marks
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject
No. 01) - Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Establishments Code :
Chapter II Recruitment Procedure and Appointment.
Chapter III Transfers.
Chapter IV Grant of Monthly Pay, Temporary
Status, Permanent status and
Pensionability.
Chapter V Release, Reversion and Termination of
Employment.
Chapter VIII Overtime, Holidays, Holiday Pay and
Allowances.
Chapter XII Leave.
Chapter XIII Railway Warrants.
Chapter XIV Travel on duty within the Island.
Chapter XIX Government Quarters.
Chapter XLVII General Conduct and discipline.
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 02) - Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Financial Regulations :
(1) Chapter I
Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue.
The Consolidated Fund and Planning and
Programming of Expenditure, Form of Presentation
of Annual Estimates, New Proposals, Preparation
Submission and Passing of Estimates of Expenditure,
Variations to Estimates of Expenditure.
(FR 1 to 68)
(2) Chapter III
Financial Management and Accountability.
Chief Accounting Officers, Accounting Officers,
Revenue Officers, Authorization, Approval,
Certification, Delegation of Authority.
(FR. 124 to 147)
(2) The Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class II
Segment "A" will consist of 02 question papers.
Subject No. 03 - Office Administration and
Establishments Code. (Two hours)
100 marks.
Subject No. 04 - Financial Regulations - (Two hours)
100 marks
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject
No. 03) - Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Estalibshments Code :
Chapter XV Travel abroad for study, training or on
duty.
Chapter XVI Holiday Travel.
Chapter XXIII Special concessions and conditions
regarding Officers suffering from certain
types of illnesses.
Chapter XXIV Salary Loans and Advances.
Chapter XXV Concessions to members of Trade
Unions.
Chapter XXVII Channels of communication.
Chapter XXVIII Administrative procedures.
Chapter XXX Right of Government over its Officers.
Chapter XXXIII Legal advice and legal actions.
Chapter XLVII General conduct and discipline.
Chapter XLVIII Rules of disciplinary procedure.
Circulars issued on performance appraisal.
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 04) - Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Financial Regulations :
(1) Chapter VI
Custody of Public Money etc., Imprests and Bank
Accounts.
Security and custody of Public etc., Counterfoil
Books, Boards of Survey on Cash Stamps etc.,
Imprests, Bank Accounts. (FR. 315 to 396)
(2) Chapter XIII
Supplies, Works and Services,
Procurement and Contracts, Supplies, Custody and
V erification of Stores, Surplus and unserviceable
Articles. (FR. 685 to 775)
11. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Public
Administration, Local Government and Democratic Governance will
be the final in respect of any matter not provided for in this notification.
12. Issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the examination has been
accepted.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1912
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail as the accurate text.
J. DADALLAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration, Local
Government and Democratic Governance.
Ministry of Public Administration, Local Government and
Democratic Governance,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
03rd September, 2015.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION PRESCRIBED FOR OFFICERS IN SEGMENT "B" AND SEGMENT "A"
OF CLASS II OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2015
(Applications for both "B" and "A" segments cannot be submitted at one and the same time)
Medium in which you sit for the Examination Examination for which you intend to sit
(Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3/English - 4) Class II Segment "B" -0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage) Class II Segment "A" -1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. ( a) Name with Initials : (Indicate the initials at the end of the name) :––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)  ( Eg.– GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.)
(b) Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
(c) Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Official address : (Admissions will be posted to this address) : ––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
(In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
03. Sex :
(Male - 0/Female - 1) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04.National Identity Card Number :
05. Subject/Subjects offered :
Subject offered for the Efficiency Bar Examination of Class II Segment B/Class II Segment A (delete inapplicable words)
Subject Subject No.
..............................
..............................
06. Whether you belong to the Provincial Public Service or Public Service :
(Indicate the number relevent to the service you belong in the cage)
(Public Service - 10/Western Provincial Public Service - 01/Central Provincial Public Service - 02/Southern Provincial Public Service - 03/
North Provincial Public Service - 04/Eastern Provincial Public Service - 05/North Western Provincial Pubilc Service - 06/North Central
Provincial Public Service - 07/Uva Provincial Public Service - 08/Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service - 09)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1913
07. Telephone Number :
08. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 19.10.2015  :
Years : Months : Days :
09. (i) Designation :––––––––––––.
(ii) Class and Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service :–––––.
(should be included as II A/II B)
(iii) Service period in the above grade as at 19.10.2015 :––––––––––––.
10. Department which you belong to :––––––––––––.
11. Affix the receipt of examination fee here.
(It would be advisable to keep a copy of the receipt)
I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and  I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language mediu m
mentioned above. Further, I agree to abide by the rules imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination on conducting the examination
and issuing the results.
––––––––––––––,
Date :––––––––––––. Signature of the Candidate.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized to sign on his behalf
of the Divisional Head.
Attestation of Candidate's Signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ is presently employed in my office and is well known to me and he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on ..................... 2015.
–––––––––––––––––,
Date  :––––––––––––. Signature of the Attester.
Name of the officer attesting  :––––––––––––.
Post  :––––––––––––.
Address  :––––––––––––.
(Confirm by the Official Stamp)
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 1 - 11 above are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit for th e
examination and also eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned above.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature and designation of Head of Department.
(Confirm by the Official Stamp)
Date :––––––––––––.
09–445

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1914
DEPARTMENTAL   EXAMINATION   FOR
PRELIMINARY   GRADE MEDICAL   OFFICERS   AND
DENTAL   SURGEONS – SEPTEMBER -  2015
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination should be
passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary Grade bfore promotion
to Grade II, by Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service
and by the Medical officers in Administrative Grade or Specialist
Grade who have not completed this Departmental Examination
during a period of two years from the date of appointment to such
post as per section 08 of the Medical service minute of Sri Lanka in
the Health Services published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of
11.10.2014, will be held on 25th October, 2015 in Sinhala, Tamil
and English medium. The venue and the time of the examination
will be notified along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Medical Officers in the Preliminary Grade
who have not completed the relevant examination and Dental
Surgeons who are not confirmed in the service can apply for this
examination. Medical officer appointed to a post in the
Administrative Grade or Specialist Grade without having completed
this examination also can apply for the above Examination.
03. Applications.– Applications that should be prepared by the
candidates as per specimen shown at the end of this circular must
be handed over to the head of the Institute on or before 20th
September, 2015. The applications that are certified as all the
eligibilities have been fulfilled, should be forwarded to the Director
(Examinations), Ministry of Health "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven.
Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or
before 25th September, 2015 through their Heads of Institutions.
The Head of Division should certify the accuracy of contents in
each application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9" x 4"
inches, affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 35.00 should be sent
along with the application. (Candidates can write their official or
private address). Applications which are received late, incomplete
or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using an A4 paper
based on the specimen form of the application so as to
recommended from 01 to 04(e) on the first front page and
from 04(f) to 08 on the second page. Applications which
do not conform to above will be rejected any information.
04. Examination fees :
(i) Candidates who sit the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, in every
subsequent sitting they should affix stamps to the value
of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided for in
the application and cancel same by placing their signature
and the date.
(ii) The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for
any other Examination or refunded under any
circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination:
(i) Candidates whose applications have been accepted will
be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly
complete and submit same to the Supervisor at the
Examination Centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed
to sit the examination.
(ii) Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor
at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the
following documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) Departmental Identity Card ;
(c) Valid Driving License ;
(d) Valid Passport.
(iii) If you did not receive your admission card due to any
unavoidable reason you can trace your examination centre
and the index number through the web site ; If you were
able to trace your examination centre and the index number
as mentioned above you are permitted to be presented at
the examination centre in the web site together with a
letter attesting your signature by your immediate superior
officer and sit the examination by establishment of your
identity. The applicants who have received the admission
card should certify their signature and should be bought.
The applicants who have obtained the certification on
their signature will not be entitled to face the examination.
(Web site : 
www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consist of
four parts that is three written essay type question papers and a
Sinhala/Tamil oral test. Each part carries 100 marks. A minimum of
50 marks should be obtained for each part to pass the examination
and this examination could be completed in one sitting or appearing
for the parts of the examination in several sittings. At the first
attempt officer should appear for all relevant subjects.
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
7.1 Written Examination :
7.1.1 Establishments Code :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out
of eight (08) questions.
Syllabus :
(i) General Regulations of the Department of
Health Services in Health Ministry ;
(ii) Orders of the Public Service Commission.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1915
(iii) Establishments Code :
Part I - Chapters VI, VII, VIII, IX, XII, XIII,
XIV , XV , XVI, XVII, XVIII,
XXIII, XXIV , XXV , XXVI,
XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII.
Part II - Chapters XLVII and XLVIII
7.1.2 Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries :
Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should
answers four (04) questions out of seven (07)
questions.
Syllabus :
Health Manual :
(i) Administration of Hospital and Public
Health ;
(ii) Management of Laboratory Services ;
(iii) Management of Drugs.
7.1.3 Accounts :
Duration 02 hours. Should answers 04 questions
out of 7 questions.
Syllabus :
(i) Regulations of Stores Accounts of the
Department of Health Services ;
(ii) Sections of Finance in the Manual of the
Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily
routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health.
Chapter I - F. R. 1, 2, 78.
Chapter II - F. R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 103,
104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109,
110, 113, 115, 118, 119.
Chapter III - F. R. 124, 125, 126, 127,
128, 131, 133, 134, 135,
136, 137, 138, 139, 140,
142, 143, 151, 152, 154,
155, 156, 189.
Chapter V - F. R. 200, 201, 215, 225,
238, 245, 255, 257, 260.
Chapter VI - F. R. 380, 381, 382, 383,
384, 385, 386, 388, 389,
390, 391, 392, 393, 394.
Chapter VII - F. R. 488, 493.
Chapter XIII - F. R. 715, 716, 756, 757,
758.
Procurement Guideline
Chapter 1 - All Sections
Chapter 2 - Section Number - 2.3, 2.4,
2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8
Chapter 3 - Section Number - 3.1, 3.2,
3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8,
3.9
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : This oral test is conducted
by the staff officers of the Departmental to measure
the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala
medium officers to communicate in Tamil medium
and the ability of the Tamil medium officers to
communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters
that arise while discharging their normal duties is
tested. Duration 10 minutes.
08. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all
relevant officers in your Division/Specialized Campaign/Institution.
The information is also available in the Web Site - 
www.health.gov.lk
N. B.– Sinhala medium notification on examination will be
effected if any contradictory is arisen in the examination
notifications published in Tamil and English mediums.
M. B. L. R
AHUMAN,
Deputy Director General (Admin.) II,
for Secretary of Health and Indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
03rd September, 2015.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1916
Specimen Form of Application
For Office Use Only                
DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINATION FOR PRELIMINARY GRADE MEDICAL OFFICERS AND DENTAL
SURGEONS - SEPTEMBER - 2015
01. (a) (i) Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials at the end) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials at the end) :
(iii) Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
  (b) (i)  Designation (Please Mark ‘ ’ in relevant cage)
(i) Medical Officer (ii) Dental Surgeon
(ii) Date of Internship Appointment :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade II :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘ ’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “X” against the subjects not
offered) :
Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries : Est. Code : Accounts :
Sinhala Viva Voce : Tamil Viva Voce :
03. Medium you sit for the examination (Mark ‘ ’ in relevant cage) :
Sinhala : English : T amil :
04. ( a) Present Station :–––––––––––.
(b) District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
(c) Telephone No. :
(d) Identity Card No. :
(e) Please mark  ‘ ’ in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (If any or several
examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due to absence of a
sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers would be re-attached to a
closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the Director General of Health Services).
Colombo Kandana Hambantota Ampara
Kalutara Galle Badulla V avuniya
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Ratnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
(f) Whether a self-addressed envelope in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 35.00 has been attached to the
application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.
(g) (i)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in English Capitals) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2015
1917
05.  (a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
(b) If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I nee d
not affix stamps since I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs. ………… since I repeat
the Examination*, and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and not used.
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Department of Health for the conduct of this Examination and
if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination, I agree with whatever decision taken for the
cancellation of my candidature.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
07. Certification of Head of Institution :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………is well known to me and in the application is correct in accordance with the particulars available in
his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the examination he/she* sits the Examination for the first time/repea ts the
Examination* he/she* need not affix stamps/has affixed stamps to the value of Rs.……… to the Application and he/she* placed his/ her*
signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Institution/Frank/Rubber Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialised Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the particulars
furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* personal file and  he/she* is
eligible to sit for the Examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
Specialised Campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :–––––––––––– .
09–482
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.