

<!-- page 1 -->

PART 1: SECTION (1) - GENERAL
PILGRIMAGES    ORDINANCE
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Home Affairs in terms of Section 2 of Pilgrimages Ordinance. (Chap. 175)
                                                                                                   WAJIRA ABEWARDHANA,
                                                                                                                          Minister of   Home Affairs.
Ministry of Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
10th  October,  2017.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Regulation of Kolambagama Sri Miugunarama Raja Maha Viharaya, Sri Maha
Vishnu Dewala Perahera of No. 1363, Kolambagama Grama Niladhari Division of the Panduwasnuwara East Divisional
Secretariat in Kurunegala District.
2. In these regulations -
"Camp area" means the area described in the schedule.
"District Secretary/Government Agent" means the Government Agent of Kurunegala  administrative Distirct and it
also includes any officer authrized by him in terms of Regulation 4.
wxl 2043$26 - 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 31 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2017'10'31
No. 2043/ 26 – TUESDAY, OCT OBER 31, 2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
Government Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
1A - G 26516 - 12(10/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'312  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  31.10.2017
"Medical Officer" means the Health Medical officer in charge of the camp area.
"Pilgrim" means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose.
"Police Officer" includes any Grama Niladhari in charge of the camp area.
"Public Health Inspector" means the public health inspector in charge of the camp area.
3. These Regulations shall apply to the Pilgrimages  made on account of the festival of Kolambagama Sri Miugunarama
Raja Maha Viharaya, Sri Maha Vishnu Dewala Perahera of No. 1363 Kolambagama Grama Niladhari Division of the
Panduwasnuwara East Divisional Secretariat in the Administrative District of Kurunegala.
4. The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have  the power to authorize any public officer in writing to exercise
any power vested in him and carry out any function assigned to him under this Regulation.
5. I. The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to Regulate vehicular traffic or walking to or from
or within the Camp area.
II. No person shall act contrary to any lawful order given by any police officer in compliance  with the instructions
   issued to such police officer by the District Secretary/Government Agent for the exercise of powers vested in him
   under  the Para (1) of this Regulation.
6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the camp area without the written permission of the District
Secretary/Government Agent. However, this Regulation shall not apply in  instance  where  carts are brought and
cattle are driven to a place Reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under Regulation 7.
7. (1) The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to Reserve or Provide the following places
inside the Camp area.
a.  Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles.
b. Places for leaving carts and cattle.
c. Separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrims.
d. Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick.
e. Places for begging and solicitation for charity.
f. Places for displaying certain items for sale.
g. Places suitable for putting up huts for various  purposes.
h. Places for the use of pilgrims for washing and bathing.
i. Tanks, wells, water hoes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking water and other places providing such
facilities.
j. Places for other purposes the District Secretary/Government Agent may deem necessary.
(2) If  the District Secretary/Government Agent deems necessary and  in case of any place is reserved or provided
      for certain purpose under Para (I) by him, action shall be taken to erecting a  notice  or name  board stating the
              purpose for which the place is reserved.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'31 3 A
PART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  31.10.2017
(3) (I) In case of any place is reserved or provided for certain purpose under Para (I) that place shall strictly be used
           for such purpose and no one shall use any other place within the Camp area for such purpo se.
8. If the District Secretary/Government Agent or Medical Officer is of the view that it is required to add chlorine to any
tank, wells, water holes or reservoir situated in the Camp area or it is required to be closed for prevention of diseases,
the District Secretary/Government Agent or Medical Officer shall have the power to do so.
9. (1) No one shall build any hut or temporary  or  permanent construction  or  any other construction or make a new
      addition to existing building or  any  other  construction  for any purpose  in  any place  within the Camp  area,
      reserved or provided for certain purpose  under Regulation 7, except on a permit issued  by the District
     Secretary/Government  Agent for the relevant purpose and in accordance with the  conditions stipulated in
     such permit.
(2) If any person builds any hut or temporary or  permanent  building  or any  other  construction  or  make a new
addition to existing building or construction contrary to the Para (I) of this Regulation, subsequent to delivery
of a written notice to that person, it is lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent to order to    remove
or demolish such hut or building or construction within the period of time given in the notice as the case may
be.
(3) Where any person who has been delivered a notice under Para (2) of this Regulation, neglects to act in
compliance with the requirements situpulated in that notice within the period stated there in or whe re a doubt
arises as to who  is the actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered, it  is  lawful for  t he Disrict
Secretary/Government Agent to cause action to be taken to Remove or demolish such hut building, construction
or a new addition made to the existing building or construction as the case may be. It is also lawful for the
District Secretary /Government Agent to make arrangements to enter to any land or premises together with
labourers, equipment.
10. No one shall Excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory with a notice or sign stating that it is reserved for the
use of pilgrims.
11. No one shall contaminate any tank, wells, water holes, reservoir, canal streams or brook located in the Camp area.
12. No one shall dispose liquid or material Garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container supplied by the
District Secretary/Government Agent for this purpose.
13. (1) District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to stream line the  distribution  of  cooked meals and
      beverages to the pilgrims in the Camp area.
(2) No one shall disobey any lawful  order to be  carried  out  by  Police  Officer  or  a  Public  Health  Inspector  in
               accordance  with  instructions  given by District Secretary/Government Agent in the exercise of powers delegated
    to him under Para (I) of this Regulation.
14. (1) Where any food or drink displayed or placed for sale or distribution among the pilgrims within the camp area is
     found to be contaminated or harmful for human consumption, the District Secretary/Government  Agent or the
     Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector may announce that such food or drink is not suitable for human
     consumption.
(2) No one shall sell or distribute within the camp area any food or drink announced as not suitable for human
     consumption under Para (I) of this Regulation.
(3) It shall be lawful for any Police Officer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit selling or distribution and destroy
any food or drink announced harmful for human consumption under Para (I) of the Regulation.
15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in any place
in the Camp area including Reserved or provided  for any purpose under the Regulation7 unless they are maintained

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'314  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  31.10.2017
on a license issued by the District Secretary/Government Agent and in accordance with conditions stipulated there
in. Every license shall be issued free of charge on Recommendation of the Medical Officer or any Officer authorized
by such  Medical Officer.
16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses and Dansal and all furniture and equipment
in such place in the Camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.
17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed  for sale or distribution in the  Camp area  shall be  kept  in
show case properly made preventing the flies from enteraing to the satisfaction of the Medical officer or the Public
Health Inspector.
18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes  shall be
left at any place within the Camp area. All such  dregs or  wastes  shall  be  dumped into the  container  placed  as
provided  in Regulation 19. However wastes, milk dregs or any refuse  have  been found thrown  over  any   place
within the Camp area or on the ground close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case of bakery, sweet
stall, place where  sweets are made or eating house or 'Dansal' the license holder of such place shall be deemed to
have violated provisions in this Regulation unless such owner, chief occupant  or license  holder  p roves  that all
necessary precautions have been taken and action has been taken with proper care to prevent the comm ission of
such offence.
19. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are  made, eating  houses,  Dansal and buildings  or  constructions
used  for commercial or business purpose shall be  provided  with  a wooden  metal  or plastic  garbage  container
with  a capacity of 1 1/2 cubic meters (4 1/2 cubic feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden, metal or plastic
lid unless it is used to dump or remove garbage.
20. (1) If the District Secretary/Government Agent is of the view that any bakery,  sweet stall, place where  sweets are
     made, eating house, Dansal or business place has been established or maintained in violation of Regulations 16,
     17, 18, or 19 in this section he shall order the authority to close down such bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets
    are  made,  eating  house,  Dansal  or  business  place  situated within  the Camp area or cancel any license with
     immediate effect if any license has been issued for such place.
(2) Any person who is in charge of any bakery or sweet stall or place where sweets  are made  or  eating  house or
     Dansal or business place shall act in accordance with the lawful directive made by the District Secretary/
     Government  Agent under chapter (1) of this section.
21. No person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious diseases shall enter the Camp area.
22. (1) It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent to order the pilgrims to leave the Camp area and for
    the District Secretary/Government Agent to determine the route of leaving  and  mode of transport  to  be  used for
    leaving when on epidemic is spreading in such area.
(2) No person shall act against  any legal order given by the District Secretary/Government Agent under Para (I) of
      this section.
23. Every person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the Camp area, and when a person
is knowingly living together with  a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease, every such
person shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector or any Police Officer Immediately.
24. Any person who is in charge of any bakery , place where sweets are made, Restaurant or Dansal within the Camp area
shall not allow any   person whom he knows is suffering from infectious  diseases or contagious dise ase to enter
such bakery, place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or participate in the distribution, sale or manufacture
of any material or food or drink.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'31 5 A
PART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  31.10.2017
25. A license holder of any bakery, sweet stall,a place  where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or an owner or
cheif occupant of any lodge or pilgrims' rest shall not allow any person suffering from any infectio us disease or
contagious disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place where sweets are made, e ating house,
Dansal lodge or pilgrims' rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person suffering  from any infectious
disease or  contagious disease is staying in such place the license holder or owner or chief occupant shall report it
to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Officer or any Polce Officer  Immediately.
26. No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity either by cash or by any other means within the Camp area
except in a place reserved or provided for begging and solicitation for charity under Regulation 7.
27. No person shall light fire works or use any fire arms  within  the  Camp area without a  written  permission  from the
District Secretary/government Agent.
28. No person shall unduly alter or Remove any notice or  name board displayed in any place under Regulation 7 or 10.
29. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent, Medical Officer, Public health Inspector or any Police
Officer to,
(a) Enter any land or place within the Camp area  for the purpose of carrying out any Regulation  from among these
     Regulations  and,
(b) To construct  or erect a post in any land or place within the Camp area for the purpose of displaying a notice or
      a name board under Regulation 7.
30. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent to cancel the following at any time if he considers that
the cancellation is appropriate or it is for the benefit in the public interest.
(a) Any permission given under Regulation 6 or Regulation 27.
(b) Permit issued under Regulation 9.
(c) Any license issued under Regulation 15.
SCHEDULE
The margins of the land which belongs to Kolambagama Sri Miugunarama Raja Maha Viharaya which  is situated in No.
1363 Kolambagama Grama Niladhari Division of the Panduwasnuwara East Divisional Secretariat of Kurunegala District are
indicated as follows.
North : Chena owned by Naide and Galkanda Chena of Ukkunaide
South : Chena owned by Kahawitiya Kiriya
East : Kolongahamula Chena
W est : Pin Kumbura of Kolambagama Temple
11-784
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.