

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.11.2012
2311
2311
wxl 1"785 - 2012 fkdjeïn¾ 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'11'16
No. 1,785 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2313
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th December, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd
November, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,784 of 09.11.2012 were not published.
B 80664

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.11.2012
2312
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.11.2012
2313
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th Dec ember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
18th October, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Deltota Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Pattiyagama Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Pathahewaheta Kandy.
(Kandyan/General)
Kandy Pathahewaheta Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Haputale Pallegama Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Pathahewaheta Kandy.
(Kandyan/General)
Kandy Minipe Hasalaka Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandapahala South Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Udadumbara Kandy.
(Kandyan/General)
11–582

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.11.2012
2314
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
HAMBANTOTA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th Dec ember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
25th October, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Hambantota Ambalantota Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages for District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Bolana Division General, District Secretariat,
Hambantota.
11–580
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.11.2012
2315
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th Dec ember,
2012.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
22nd October, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Harispattuwa Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Uguressapitiya General , District Secretariat,
Kandy.
11–583
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.11.2012
2316
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th Dec ember,
2012.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
30th October, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Darga Town Area in Kalutara and General, District Secretariat,
Panadura Thotamuna Division Kalutara.
11–680
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th Dec ember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
30th October, 2012.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.11.2012
2317
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Sub Inspector
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Probationary Sub Inspector of Police in the Sri Lanka
Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by Registered Post to
the abovementioned address to reach on or before 15.01.2013 and
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Delayed applications will
be rejected and no applications will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary scale.– Rs. 190,200 - 7 x 2,160 - 2 x 2,880 - 8 x 3,840
- 17 x 4,500 - Rs. 318,300.
Further, these officers are entitled to Cost of Living Allowance
paid to other public officers and the allowance granted in accordance
with the Public Administration Circular No. 31/11 dated 12.12.2011.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances :
(a) Special arduous duty allowance :
Rs. cts.
(1) For performance of duties in 1,200 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance of duties in other areas 600 0
(b) Combined allowance :
Rs. cts.
(1) For performance of duties in 12,000 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance of duties in other areas 6,400 0
(c) Free transport facilities.
(d) Free Medical facilities to officers  (Financial assistance can
be obtained for medical treatment even in a foreign
country.).
(e) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(f) Facilities to improve skill and talents in sports.
(g) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
04. Basic qualifications :
(a) Age limits. – The age should be between 18 and 28
years as at closing date as per the Gazette Notification.
However officers in Police Department and Security
Assistants service serving in the Police Department
are eligible to apply up to the age of 30 years as at the
closing date of applications.
(b) Educational qualifications :
* Should have passed 06 subjects in the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination in one sitting with 04 Credit passes
including Mathematics and Medium Language.
* Should have passed 3 subjects at the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination at one sitting.
Note.– 01. According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in determining the
Number of subjects passed at G . C. E. (O/L)
both passes in Science subjects Number 41 and
44 will be treated as one subject and both passes
in Mathematics Number 42 and 45 will be treated
as one subject.
Note.– 02. Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G. C. E. (O/L) examination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
Note.– 03. Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of
G . C. E. (O/L) syllabus passes in any of these
subjects will not be computed as a pass in the
G . C. E.  (O/L) Examination.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Kalpitiya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Norochchole Division General, District Secretariat,
Puttalam
11–679
––––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.11.2012
2318
(c) Physical requirements :
  Height 05 feet 06 inches (minimum).
  Chest 32 inches (Minimum/in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided that they have
skills in sports or have achieved best performance in
sports at national level or they have earned reputation
for Sri Lanka by participating in an international
competition.
(d) Visual requirement.– Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 with one eye and
6/18 with the other eye it will be accepted. Colour vision
should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or
contact lenses will not be eligible.
(e) Other qualifications :
Applicants should be unmarried. (Divorcees will be
considered as married). Only this condition will not
apply for those who have fulfilled the other
qualifications and presently serving in the Police
Department and for the Security Assistants.
5. Method of recruitment.– Selected applicants will have to pass
the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department of Police.
Only those who have passed this test must also get through the
physical fitness test or endurance test.
      1. 1,000 meters 3 minutes 14 seconds
Only those who are successful in the test will be summoned
for final interview. Only those who score 40% or more will
be summoned for the final written test.
* The written test consists of two question papers :–
* An essay paper not less than 500 words within 45
minutes.
* General Knowledge and Intelligence Paper - 1 hour.
6. Medical Test.– Applicants selected as per the list of priority
and order of merit should pass a Medical Test prior to the
appointment. Unsuccessful candidates will be rejected.
7. Background Inquiries  :
(a) In veiw of confirm the conduct of the applicant, inquiries
will be made on the conduct of the applicant, with close
relations and friends. Applicants with  bad conduct will
not be recruited.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.
8. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular, No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Public Service with effect from
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they enter the service.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the language test conducted by the Official Language
Department.
* The salary increments of the officers who do not acquire
the specific proficiency in the second official language
within a period of 05 years from the date of their
appointments will be deferred until they obtain
qualifications.
9. Terms of Engagement. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows'/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subjected to a three year probation
period.
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereinafter be made to
give effect to the official language policy.
(c) They will be subjected to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code Volume I and II, Financial
Regulations, Departmental Orders and any other orders
that may be issued by the Inspector General of Police or
by the Government from time to time.
(d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be required
to pass the prescribed Departmental Examinations. Those
who fail to pass the prescribed examinations or found to
be unfit for Poilce duties will be liable for removal from
the Police Service.
(e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said rank without the permission of the
Inspector General of Police. However, in terms of P. G. II
No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and I. G. P.'s Circular No.
1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and Circular (Amended) dated
09.08.2007, it is possible to marry showing special
reasons and with permission of Inspector General of
Police.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.11.2012
2319
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a probationary period of three years in the
Police Department and if they wish to resign from service
before their probation is over, they should sign an
agreement of consent to the effect that they are willing to
pay at the time of tendering their resignation, any amount
which was incurred on the training and uniforms etc.,
together with any other prescribed payments. Director
of Police Training College will decide it having calculated
dues from the applicants. The acceptance of resignation
should conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of V olume I
of the Establishments Codes, 1985.
(g) Immediately after Probationary Sub Inspectors have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,
they should subscribe affirmation/oath to the effect that
they comply with the Police Code of conduct in terms of
the I. G . P.’s Circular No. 1693/2003.
(h) Immediately after Probationary Sub Inspectors have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,
subscribe the Oath of allegiance to a prestigious Public
service, in terms of the I. G . P.'s Circular, No. 1804/2004.
(i) Probationary Sub Inspectors who have been confirmed
in the post will have opportunities for promotions in
terms of the approved schemes of promotions of the
Police Department.
11. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointments to posts in the Public Service published
at the beginning of the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this
Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular, No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
12. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their applications (originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not related) ;
(iii) Certificate in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificate in support of sports with outstanding records
or other extra curricular activates ;
(v) A photostat copy of the service experience (if available) ;
(vi) A photostat copy of the Identity Card.
13. (a) Applicants who are already in the Public Service must
forward their applications through the Heads of their
respective Departments and they must be accompanied
with a certificate stating that the officer can be released if
selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the copies of certificates called for, to the
address given in paragraph two and under no
circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the Department.
14. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
P
OST OF PROBATIONARY SUB INSPECTOR
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's birth certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Copy of the NIC should be attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police Station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(d) Police station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) The electorate to which the permanent address belongs :
–––––––––.
(f) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent address
belongs :–––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––.
(g) Telephone Number (Residence) :–––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are a citizen by birth or registration :–––––.
(If by registration, attach copies of certificate)
(c) If you are citizen by birth, state the place of birth :
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great grandfather :–– ––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.11.2012
2320
07. Date of birth :––––––––––. (Copy of the birth certificate should
be attached)
Age (as at the closing date of application as stated in the
Gazette):
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
Chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Copies of the certificates indicating
the exams passed should be attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.
11. Whether married or unmarried :––––––––––.
12. (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
(ii) Are you a member of any armed forces ? :––––––––––.
13. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications :––––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant  :
(i) ––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––.
15. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Reserve Police
Service or Regular Police Service  (If so give reference) :
––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the
Sri Lanka Reserve Police before ? (If so under what
circumstances did you leave the service ? Give details) :
––––––––––.
16. Are you a member of the Sri Lanka Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and number. Attach copy of the
appointment letter :––––––––––.
17. ( a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
service Commander) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
18. ( a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ? (If so, your application must be submitted
through the respective service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed service ?
:––––––––.
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificate)
19. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence ? (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false, I am aware that I am liable for
immediate termination of my service in the Police Department at
any time even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
CERTIFICATION OF THE HEAD OF
DEP ARTMENT (IF APPLICABLE)
This is to certify that the applicant Mr./Miss ..................... is
serving in ........................ the Department/Corporation/Board and
if he is selected for the above post, he could be released from
service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
11–645
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.