

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1960$69 - 2016 wfm%a,a ui 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'04'01
No.1960/69  - FRIDAY  APRIL  01,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
NORTHERN   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Northern Province Education  Statute No. 02 of 2015
Notice is hereby given that the Northern Province, Northern Provincial Council has adopted the Northern Province Education
Statute No. 02 of 2015 on 30th December 2015 and that the Hon. Governor, Northern Province has granted his Assent to it
on 08.02.2016.
K. T
HEIVENDRAN,
Secretary,
Council Secretariat,
Northern Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
A9 Road,
Kaithady,
30th March 2016.
THE   NORTHERN   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Education Statute No. 02 of 2015
A Statute to make Provision for the Establishment of Department of Education in the Northern Province of Sri Lanka in
respect of Functions Devolved as set out in item 3 and the Appendix III of List No. I in the Ninth Schedule of 13th
Amendment to the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. This Statute is inconsistent with the
provisions of the Education Ordinance (chapter 381) as amended from time to time.
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Northern Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka as follows:

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
2A
(1) This Statute may be cited as the Education Statute No. 02 of 2015 of the Provincial Council
of the Northern Province of Sri Lanka and shall come into force on the date of Governor’s assent.
(2) (i)For the purpose of this statute, there shall be a Provincial Department of Education
consisting of the Provincial Director of Education, Additional Provincial Directors of Education, Deputy
Directors and Asst. Directors of Education and such other officers and servants as may be appointed
from time to time.
(ii) The Provincial Department of Education existing on the day immediately  preceding the
date on which this Statute comes into operation shall be deemed to be established under this Statute and
shall continue accordingly; and every officer or servant in that Deartment on the aforesaid day shall be
deemed to be  appointed under this statute and shall continue in office accordingly.
(3) (i) Subject to the general directions and control of the Minister of Education, the Director
and other officers of the Department shall execute and shall have power to enforce the provisions of
this Statute and of the· regulations made thereunder.
(ii) It shall be lawful for the Minister on appeal or otherwise to rescind, alter or revise any
order or determination which is made by the Director in the exercise of his discretion under any of the
provisions of this Statute or any regulations made thereunder. The decision of the Minister shall be final
and conclusive
PART   I
Establishment of Zonal Education Advisory Boards and School Advisory Boards
(4)(1) The Minister may appoint Zonal Advisory Boards for the purpose of advising the Zonal
Directors upon matters connected with Education in the Zones of the Province and the Educational
needs thereof.
(ii) Every Zonal Advisory Board shall consist of :-
(a) The Zonal Director of Education of the respective Zone
(b) A fit and proper person each appointed by the respective Mayor of the Municipal
Council, Chairman of the Urban Council and Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha within
the Education Zone. ( c) The member of the Provincial Council representing the area
in  which Zone is situated
(d) The Divisional Secretaries within the respective Education Zone
(e) The Medical Officer of Health of the respective Zone.
(f) The Advisory Board shall comprise of an eminent person from outside the Department
of Education to ensure that any advice rendered is independent advice.
(g) Four principals from each of the four types of schools within the Education Zone
nominated by the Provincial Director of Education.
(h) The Student Leaders from the Schools within the Zone not exceeding five in number
nominated by Zonal Director of Education.
Establishment of
Northern
Provincial
Department of
Education
Short title and
date of operation
Zonal Education
Advisory Boards·

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
(i) The Secretary, Provincial Director or their representatives may attend or be invited
to any meetings of the Zonal Advisory Boards.
(j) The membership from each of the categories of membership shall consist of
approximately 50% each of females and males as far as possible.
(k) The Zonal Advisory Board may appoint Ex-Officio members as required.
(iii) The Zonal Director Education of the Zone shall be the Chairman of the Zonal Education
Advisory Board.
(iv) At the first sitting of the Advisory Board, the Advisory Board shall elect the Secretary from
its members.
(v) All matters referred for consideration to the Zonal Advisory Board by the Zonal Director of
Education/ shall be dealt with and disposed of by the Zonal  Advisory Board meetings summoned and
held in the prescribed manner at the prescribed times.
(vi) The Zonal Advisory Board constituted for any Zone under this Statute shall not be deemed
for any purpose to be vested with any executive or administrative duties or powers or with any functions
other than that of Advising or recommending on such matters relating to education in that Zone or the
Education needs .thereof as may be referred’ for consideration to that Zonal Advisory Board by the
Provincial Director of Education, or the Zonal Director of Education
(5) (I) Conforming to the specifications laid down by the National Ministry of Education
there shall be established a school Advisory Board for every school in the province.
(ii) The functions of the School Advisory Board shall be to advise the management of the
school on all such matters relating to the control, organisation, development and
conduct of the functions of the school as may be referred to the Board by the Zonal
Director of Education or in respect of which the Board may think fit to tender advice.-
(iii) The School Advisory Board shall not be deemed for any purpose to be vested with
any administrative or executive powers or functions
(Iv) The School Advisory Board shall consist of the Principal and representatives of the
members of the staff and parents or the guardians of the students and the students at
the secondary. level of the school.
(v) The Chairperson of the School Advisory Board shall be an Eminent Person in the
school community as determined by the Principal and Staff of the school.
(vi) At the first meeting held after the constitution of the School Advisory Board, the
members of the Board shall elect its Executive Committee
(vii) The gender balance should be ensured as far as possible.
(6) No student shall be refused admission to any school in the Province on account of religion,
nationality, race, caste, social status, intellectual or physical disability or  language of such applicant or
of either of his parents.
(7) (i) No fees shall be charged in respect of admission to any school under the authority of
the Northern Provincial Ministry of Education.
General
Conditions
School Advisory
Boards

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
4A
(ii) Notwithstanding anything in this Sub-Section (i), regulations may be made under this
Statute authorizing the charging of a fee/fees from pupils in any school in order to defray the expenses
incurred in providing therein facilities for games, physical training or services for educational, recreational
or health purposes that is over and above the minimum that the schools should provide as part of the
school extra curricular activities.
(8) Any private land which may be required for the purpose of or in connection with, the erection
or extension of a school building, staff quarters, offices or premises or for the establishment of school
gardens or playgrounds or otherwise for the purposes of this Statute may be acquired by the Provincial
Council for such purpose under the provisions of the existing written law.
(9) It shall be lawful for the Minister or the Secretary or the Director or any supervising officer
of the Ministry or the Department or any other person generally or specially authorized by the Minister
or the Director to enter and supervise activities and properties therein of any school.
PART   II
 Powers of minister to make Regulations
(10) (i) The Minister may make regulations which shall be known as the Code, for the
purpose of giving effect to the principles and provisions of this Statute.
(ii) In particular, the Minister may make regulations on the following matters :-
(a) 1. Provision of facilities and amenities for all state schools other than specified
schools will be National Schools special school for Service Personnel for
specified development schemes.
2. Supervision of the management of
a. All pre- schools and
b. Schools in the province other than specified schools indicated in ( b)
above
3. Recruitment into the Teaching Service of those with diplomas and degrees from
Colleges of Education and Universities recognized as teaching qualification.
4. Appointment of Principals of all schools in the Province other than those in 1 AB,
lC categories as per criteria laid down by the National Minister of Education.
5. Transfer and disciplinary control of all Educational Personnel i.e Teachers,
Principals and Education Officers. Officers belonging to a National Service but
serving on secondment will have the right of appeal to the Public Service
commission. Officers belonging to the Provincial Public Service will have a right
of appeal -to the Public Service Commission against dismissal.
6. Preparation of Provincial Educational development plan and annual implementation
plan.
7. Implementation of the Annual Education Development Plan.
The Powers Qf
Minister to Make
Regulations

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
8. Appraisal of the performances of Principals, Teachers and all other Educational
personnel.
9. Conducting of in-service training programmes with prior approval of the National
Institute of Education.
10. Conducting of local Examinations approved by the Commissioner General of
Examination.
11. Implementation of non-formal Education programmes.
12. Registration and Supervision of pre-schools.
13. Obtaining the approval of the National Institute of Education for local variations
in the primary curriculum and selected subjects in the Secondary Curriculum.
14. Construction and maintenance of Education buildings, toilets, libraries and play
grounds.
15. Procuring and distribution of teaching aids and visual aids and Audio-Visual
materials, furniture and other equipment.
16. Procuring and Distribution of Science equipment other than items specified by
the Ministry of Education of the Central Government.
17. Provide adequate and clean supply of water.
18. Production and distribution of  school text books after approval by the National
Ministry of Education.
19. Organization and development of school libraries in accordance with guide lines
given by the National Library Service Board.
20. Specifying the limits of any Divisional Education Offices within the Province.
21. Medical Examination or treatment, health and wellbeing of children including the
supply of free meals and free books of those attending schools.
22. Grading and up-grading classification and opening of schools in the province with
policies and the standard classified by the National Ministry of Education.
23. Preparation and Implementation of plans pertaining to the needs of Adult Education
in the province.
24. Provincial Budget and ensuring financial management in the Province, with a view
to up-keeping the educational needs.
25. Regarding other important matter in list (appendix 111 Education) for which in
the opinion of the Minister regulations are required.
(iii) Every regulation made under this statute becomes operative with the approval of the
Provincial Council

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
6A
(11) in case of any inconsistency between the Tamil and the Sinhala or English texts of this
Statute, the Tamil text shall prevail.
(12) In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires
“Governor” means the Governor of the Northern Province.
“Provincial Council” means the Northern Provincial Council.
“Province” means the Northern Province.
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of education in the Board of Ministers
of the Northern Province.
“Director” means the Director of Provincial Education of the Northern Provincial Council.
Language
Inconsistency
Interpretation
04-738
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.