

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2044
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2042
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"203 – 2020 fkdjeïn¾ ui 20 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'11'20
No. 2,203  –  fRiday ,  NoVEmbER 20, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th december, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th November, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2039 - b 82079- 5,403 (11/2020)
N. B.–   (i) Part ii, iii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,202 of 13.11.2020 were not published. 


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'11'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.11.2020
2040
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'11'20
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.11.2020
2041
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'11'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.11.2020
2042
Posts – vacant
bhIkSu uNIvERSITy Of SRI LANkA, ANuRADhAPuRA 
Invitation for Applications/Nominations Post of mahopadyaya (vice-Chancellor)
iN pursuance of the buddhasravaka bhiksu University act No. 26 of 1996 and the amendment of act No.15 of 2012, and 
provisions of the University Grants commission circular No. 02/2020 of 04th may 2020 applications or nominations for 
the post of the MAHOPADYAYA are invited from the qualified Bhikkus who have possessed the following qualifications.
1. Post-graduate degree in buddhist Studies or in any other subject connected thereto from a recognized university 
on a research done within a period of not less than two years.
2. Ten years of experience in the field of teaching. .
3. Possess a good knowledge of oriental languages.
4. Shall be a disciplined Upasampada bhikku who has completed twenty years after Upasampada.
The Mahopadyaya shall be appointed for the period of three (03) years. He shall be a full time officer of the 
University and the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Academic Officer thereof. The Mahopadyaya shall be ex-officio 
member of the Uththarithara Sabawa and ex-officio member and Chairman of both the Council and the Senate. He shall be 
responsible for the maintenance of discipline within the University. The Mahopadyaya shall be the Accounting Officer of the 
University, who shall comply with any determination or directive of the council. it shall be the duty of the mahopadyaya to 
give effect or to ensure that effect is given to the decisions of the council and of the Senate. the mahopadyaya shall hold 
office for a term of three years or until he completes his sixty fifth year whichever event occurs earlier.
the applicants /nominees should be citizens of Sri Lanka and shall be less than 63 years of age to the application 
closing date.
the mahopadyaya is eligible to be placed on the highest salary scale of the University and be paid other allowances 
approved by-the Government and the University Grants Commission. He will also be provided an official vehicle with fuel 
allowance and residential facilities in the University premises.
the following documents should accompany with the application/nominations;
 (i) a  completed curriculum Vitae of applicant/nominee including date of birth
 (ii) a  personal statement of vision for the development of the University and a brief account of what the 
applicant/nominee expects to achieve if appointed to the post of mahopadyaya.
 (iii) a  letter of consent from the nominee in case of a nomination,
 (iv) a  letter from the employer indicating whether the applicant/nominee could be released in the event of 
his appointment to the post in case of the applicant/nominee serving in public service, corporations, 
Statutory bodies and Higher Educational institutions other than the bhiksu University of Sri Lanka.
 (v) Where the incumbent Vice chancellor is an applicant or had held the post of Vice chancellor of the 
University before, such an applicant should also give a report highlighting accomplishments during his 
first period of the office.
the council shall recommend three names from among bhikku applicants/nominees who possess the 
qualifications specified above and in the order of marks obtained by the candidate and submit those names to the Uththarithara 
Sabawa and the Uththarithara Sabawa then shall select and recommend the name of one bhikku applicant to the H.E. 
President through the Hon minister.
the candidates short listed by the Evaluation committee and approved by the council shall be invited for 
a brief presentation of minimum ten (10) minutes .duration but not exceeding fifteen (15) minutes to the University Council.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'11'20
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.11.2020
2043
applications / Nominations should be addressed to the “Registrar, bhiksu University of Sri Lanka, Puttalam  
Road, anuradhapura” and sent under registered cover or hand delivered to reach him on or before 3.00 p.m., on 04 th 
december 2020.
the envelope containing application / nomination with relevant materials must be marked “Post of the 
mahopadyaya” on its top left-hand comer.
applications received after the closing date and incomplete will not be entertained.
 U.d. DoDanwala,
 Registrar and Secretary to the council, 
 bhiksu University of Sri Lanka.
25th october, 2020.
11-342
–––––––––––––––––––––––
JuDICIAL SERvICE COmmISSION 
Post of Chairman/Administrative Appeals 
Tribunal 
caLL foR aPPLicatioNS foR tHE PoSt 
of cHaiRmaN, admiNiStRatiVE aPPEaLS 
tRibUNaL
tHiS refers to the Gazette Notice No. 10-399, published 
in the Gazette  of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka No. 2196 and dated 02.10.2020, on the above subject. 
it is hereby informed that the closing date for applications 
has been extended from 16th of November 2020 up to 18th 
december 2020.
 
H. Sanjeewa Somaratne, 
 Secretary, 
 Judicial Service commission.
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12, 
12th November, 2020.
11-344
JuDICIAL SERvICE COmmISSION 
vacancies in the Judicial Service of Sri Lanka
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Judicial Officer 
class ii Grade i (magistrate) in Sri Lanka Judicial Service.
this refers to the Gazette Notice No. 10-264, published 
in the Gazette  of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka No. 2196 and dated 02.10.2020, on the above subject. 
it is hereby informed that the closing date for applications 
has been extended from 06th of November 2020 up to 18th 
december 2020.
 
H. Sanjeewa Somaratne, 
 Secretary, 
 Judicial Service commission.
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12, 
11th November, 2020.
11-345

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'11'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.11.2020
2044
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of PubLIC SERvICES, 
PROvINCIAL COuNCILS AND LOCAL 
GOvERNmENT 
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers In Class I 
of the Government Translators’
 Service - 2015 (2020)
aN Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class I of the 
translators’ Service, as provided for in paragraph 08 of the 
translators’ Service minute published in the Government 
Gazette No. 829/7 dated 26.07.1994, shall be held in 
colombo by the commissioner General of Examinations in 
the month of march 2021 and candidates may appear for 
the examination either in Sinhala, tamil or English media. 
Only the officers, who belong to Combined Services of 
Public Service, shall apply for the relevant Efficiency Bar 
examination as per this notification.
Note: the provisions relevant to the applicants of the 
translators’ Service of the Provincial Public 
Service and the provisions for the applicants 
of other relevant institutions shall be issued 
concurrently to this Gazette Notification 
by the relevant Provincial Public Service  
commissions and the relevant institutions 
respectively.
a code number should be indicated in mentioning relevant 
service or institution in the heading of the application for the 
purpose of identifying separately the officers who apply for 
this examination for the public service of each Provincial 
council and other institutions. accordingly, the code 
number of the officers belonging to the Combined Service 
is 10. the said number should be indicated on the top right-
hand corner of the application where it is mentioned as “the 
service to which you belong”.
2. the specimen form of applications for this examination 
is published at the end of this notification. Applications 
prepared correctly and legibly should be sent through the 
respective Head of department by registered post to reach the 
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations 
(Institutional & Foreign Examinations) Branch, 
Department of Examinations Sri Lanka, P.O. box 1503, 
Colombo on or before 28 
th of December 2020. the name 
of the examination should be indicated on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope in which the application is sent to 
the commissioner General of Examinations. applications 
received after the closing date shall be rejected. 
3. (i) the application should be prepared on a paper 
of “a4” size, using both sides of the paper in such a 
manner that items No. 1.0 to 4.2 appear on the first page 
and the remaining numbers in the second page. although 
application form could be typewritten, it should be filled by 
the candidate’s own handwriting. applications that are not 
complete in every aspect and that do not comply with the 
specimen shall be rejected without any notice. it would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application 
form at the candidate’s possession.
(ii) For the purposes of Official Languages Policy, all the 
applicants should prepare and fill their application forms in 
the official language. The name of the examination appearing 
in the heading of the application form should be indicated in 
English in both Sinhala and tamil medium applications.
4. Syllabus and Scheme of Examination.
1
st Subject - Paper 01
translation of
 (i) a  passage of general interest; and
 (ii) Extracts from
 (a) an official document or report; and
 (b) a newspaper article or report 
  in one of the following ways selected, in 
accordance with the candidate’s medium 
of translation.
 (i) from Sinhala to tamil
 (ii) from Sinhala to English
 (iii) from tamil to English
  duration : - 03 Hours  
  marks: - 100
2
nd Subject - Paper 02
translation of
 (i) a passage of general interest; and
 (ii) Extracts from
  (a) an official document or report; and
  (b) a newspaper article or report
in one of the following ways selected, in accordance with 
the candidate’s medium of translation
 (i) from tamil to Sinhala
 (ii) from English to Sinhala
 (iii) from English to tamil
duration: - 03 Hours 
marks: - 100

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'11'20
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.11.2020
2045
• Candidates should obtain forty percent (40%) or 
above of the total marks for each paper to pass the 
examination. 
05. candidates’ handwriting shall be taken into 
consideration.
06. examination Fees: Examination fees shall be paid in 
respect of candidates for this examination on the following 
basis.
(a) No fees shall be levied in respect of candidates 
appearing for the first time.
(b) fees for appearing on a subsequent occasion 
shall be Rs. 500/- for the full examination and 
Rs. 250/- for a single subject.
(c) the examination fee can be paid at any Post 
Office/ Sub Post Office or District/ Divisional 
Secretariat in the island to be credited to the 
revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations and the receipt obtained 
in favor of the candidate himself / herself should 
be affixed to the relevant cage of the application 
form. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
cash receipt with the candidate.
(d) the examination fees shall not be refunded or 
transferred in respect of any other examination 
under any circumstances.
07. Admission to the examination :
 (i)  the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue admission cards to all applicants whose 
applications have been received. candidates 
must get their signatures in the admission cards 
attested in advance and produce the admission 
cards to the supervisor of the examination center, 
when presenting themselves for the examination. 
candidates without such admission cards shall not 
be permitted either to enter the examination hall 
or sit for the examination. A notification shall be 
published in newspapers and the official website 
by the department of Examinations as soon as the 
admission cards are issued to the candidates. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days 
of such notification, steps shall be taken to notify 
the department of Examinations (institutional & 
Foreign Examinations) in the manner specified in 
the advertisement.
 (ii)  When such inquiry is made, the candidate should 
clearly mention the name of the examination, full 
name of the applicant, National identity card and 
address. in case of applicants outside colombo, 
letter of request furnishing a fax number to which 
the admission card should be sent. it would be 
advisable to keep the following in hand at the time 
of calling the department of Examinations: i.e. 
certified photocopies of the application form and 
the receipt obtained after paying the examination 
fee kept at your possession, receipt of registration 
of the printed copy of the application.
 (iii) Each candidate shall be issued a time table along 
with the admission card.
 (iv) candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
prescribed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for conducting the examination. 
they shall be liable to any punishment imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations for the 
breach of these rules.
 (v) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed at the 
beginning of this Gazette.
Note: the issuance of an admission card to sit for 
the examination should not be considered as 
an acceptance of requisite qualifications of a 
candidate to sit for the examination.
08. Heads of departments shall grant duty leave for 
candidates to whom admission cards have been issued by 
the commissioner General of Examinations, to present 
themselves at the examination. travelling expenses are not 
payable.
09. Identity of Candidates: candidates shall be required to 
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose, 
any of the following documents shall be accepted.
 (i) the National identity card
 (ii) a  valid passport
 (iii) a  valid driving license
candidates should enter the examination hall without 
covering face and ears enabling to verify the identity. those 
who refuse to verify their identity as such shall not be 
permitted to enter the examination hall. further, candidates 
should remain with their face and ears uncovered until 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'11'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.11.2020
2046
they leave the examination hall enabling the examination 
supervisors to confirm their identity. In case an objection 
is made, the candidate may be allowed to sit for the 
examination. However, results would not be released as the 
identity was not confirmed.
10.
Release of the r esults : commissioner General of
Examinations will release the results of the examination to 
the director General of combined Services and the results 
will be published on the website of ministry of Public 
Service, Provincial councils and Local Government.
11. the decision of the director General of combined
Services shall be final in respect of any matter, which has not 
been provided for in this notification.
(for office use only) 
Specimen form of Application
EfficiENcy baR EXamiNatioN foR officERS iN cLaSS i of tHE GoVERNmENt tRaNSLatoRS' 
SERVicE - 2015(2020)
(N.B. - This form should be filled correctly and legibly by the candidates own handwriting.)
 the service to which you belong
(See the first paragraph before filling this)
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
medium of translations of candidate as per para 04 of the Gazette Notification.
Paper 01 f rom Sinhala into tamil - 1
  from Sinhala into English - 2
  from tamil into English - 3 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)        
 Paper 02 f rom tamil into Sinhala - 4
  from English into Sinhala - 5
  from English into tamil - 6 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)              
* candidates may appear for either paper 01, paper 02 or both the papers.
1.0 PERSoNaL iNfoRmatioN :
1.1 Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––––––––––.
 (Eg: HERatH mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN KUmaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
1.2 Name with initials at the end (in block capitals) :––––––––––––––––.
 (Eg: GUNaWaRdHaNa, H.m.S.K.)
1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––––––.
2.0 Service Station and address :
2.1 Name and Address of the Office/ Department/ Institution (In block capitals) :––––––––––––––––.
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/ Department/ Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil):––––––––––––––––.
2.3 a ddress to which the admission card should be sent (in block capitals) :––––––––––––––––.
12. “in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala,
Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.”
S. alokabanDara,
 director General of combined Services.
ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils and 
 Local Government independence Square,
colombo 07,
10th of November 2020.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'11'20
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.11.2020
2047
3.0  3.1 National identity card No. : 
  3.2 date of birth:  date :                       month :                        year :
  3.3 Gender  female  - 1  
     male  - 0 
     (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
4.0 t elephone numbers:
  4.1 mobile  : 
  4.2 fixed : 
5.0 Present Post:
  5.1 Post  :––––––––––––––––.
  5.2 Number of the letter of appointment  :––––––––––––––––.
6.0  6.1 Are you appearing for this examination for the first time?   :––––––––––––––––.
  6.2 if not, the examination fees paid  :––––––––––––––––.
  6.3 Post Office/ Sub Post Office or District/ Divisional Secretariat  :––––––––––––––––.
  6.4 Receipt Number   :––––––––––––––––. 
  6.5 date  :––––––––––––––––.
The receipt should be affixed so as not to be detached 
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
7.0 Certificate of Candidate ;
i declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that i am entitled to sit for the examination in the medium 
stated at the beginning of the application and that i have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment. i agree 
to abide by the rules and regulations imposed for this examination. further, i shall be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations for conducting this examination and issuance of the results.
    ––––––––––––––––,   
    Signature of candidate.
date  :––––––––––––––––.
8.0 Certificate of the Head of Department :
i hereby certify that,
 (i) this candidate is employed in this department as a translator in class i of the translators’ Service, which 
belongs to the combined Service;
 (ii) the particulars furnished above are correct;
 (iii) His/her work and conduct have been satisfactory throughout: and he/she has not been subjected to any form of 
disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) during the 5 years preceding; and
 (iv) He/she is eligible to sit for this examination.
 (v) He/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt has been affixed (delete if inapplicable)
  ––––––––––––––––––
  Signature of the Head of Department and official stamp.
designation :––––––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––––––.
11-309
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.