

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2133$36 - 2019 cQ,s ui 24 jeks nodod - 2019'07'24
No. 2133/36 – WEDNESDAY, JUL Y 24, 2019
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
1A - PG 4600 - 517 (2019/07)
PART I: SECTION (I) - GENERAL
Government Notifications
L. D. -B. 1/2019
OFFICE  ON  MISSING  PERSONS  (EST ABLISHMENT ,  ADMINISTRA TION  AND  DISCHARGE  OF  FUNCTIONS)
ACT,  No. 14  OF  2016
GUIDELINES issued by the Minister of Justice and Prison Reforms under paragraph (f) of Section 12 of the Office on Missing
Persons (Establishment, Administration and Discharge of Functions) Act, No. 14 of 2016.
THALATHA ATUKORALE,
Minister of Justice and Prison Reforms.
Colombo,
18th July 2019.
Guidelines
1. A  search  of  a  place  of  detention  conducted  by a specified officer authorised to do so under paragraph (f) of
section 12 of the Act shall be in accordance with these Guidelines.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : fþoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2019'07'24
PART I : S ECTION I -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 24.07.2019
2A
Part I
Authorization of Specified Officers
2. An authorization under paragraph (f) of section 12 of the Act shall contain-
(a) the name and the designation of the specified officer authorized to conduct the search;
(b) the date of authorization; and
(c) the purpose of the search.
Part  II
Search without Prior Notification
3. A search of a place of detention may be conducted an authorized specified officer at any time without any prior
notification being given to any person in charge of such place of detention.
4. At the commencement of a search, an authorized specified officer shall show the person in charge of a place of
detention the authorization and where such person in charge of such place of detention makes a reque st, give a
copy of such authorization.
Part III
Powers to be Exercised during a Search of a Place of Detention
5. An authorized specified officer may-
(a) search any part of the premises of a place of detention;
(b) question any person in such place of detention to ascertain the conditions of detention or in
relation to any matter relating to the mandate of the OMP;
(c) retain any document or object found in such place of detention;
(d) make copies of any document referred to in paragraph (c);
(e) take photographs of such place of detention or any object, document, vehicle or any other matter
including any sign or physical evidence found in such place of detention; or
(f) search any vehicle in a place of detention.
Part IV
Procedural Requirements
6. The OMP shall maintain a logbook of all searches of places of detention conducted by the authorised  specified
officers.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : fþoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2019'07'24
PART I : S ECTION I -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 24.07.2019
3A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
7. An authorized specified officer of the OMP conducting a search of a place of detention shall make a written record
of such search in the logbook immediately after the conclusion of such search. Where such record has   not  been
made immediately after the conclusion of the search due to unavoidable circumstances, such record shall be made
as soon as reasonably practicable.
8. A written record made in the logbook under Guideline 7 shall include-
(a) details of the authorization of the search;
(b) address of the place of detention in which the search was conducted;
(c) date, time and duration of the search;
(d) names and any descriptive information of persons present at the place of detention at the
time of the search;
(e) details of any objects, documents retained or copies of the documents made during the
search; and
(f) details of any photographs taken or vehicles searched under paragraphs (e) and (f) of
Guideline 5.
9. An authorized specified officer of the OMP conducting a search of a  place of detention shall, before such officer
leaves such place of detention, issue a receipt acknowledging the  retention  of any  object or  document  retained
during such search, with a detailed description of objects or documents so retained.
10. In these Guidelines, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Act” means the Office on Missing Persons (Establishment, Administration and Discharge of  Functions) Act,
No. 14 of 2016;
“document” means any matter expressed or described upon any substance by means of letters, figures o r marks
or by more than  one  of those  means, intended to  be  used or  which may  be used for the  purpose   of
recording  that  matter  and includes any  matter  that  is expressed  or described upon any substan ce by
electronic or digital form;
“object” means any movable tangible property;
“OMP” means the Office on Missing Persons established by Section 3 of the Act;
“place of detention” includes any place of detention, police station, prison or any other place in which any person
is suspected to be detained, or is suspected to have previously been detained in, whether by judicial order
or otherwise.
08-313