

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'05
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.11.2016
1A  —  PG 3219  -  08  (11/2016)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
w;s úfYI
wxl 1991$57 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 05 jeks fikiqrdod - 2016'11'05
No.  1991/57  -  SATURDAY ,   NOVEMBER   05,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial Councils Notifications
AMENDMENT
CENTRAL   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
THE English notification of the order made under section 20 of the Passenger Transport Service Authority Statute No. 01
of 2000 and 24(2) (1) (xii), (xiii) and 24(3) of the Route Passenger Transport Statute No. 04 of 1992 made under the
powers vested on the Provincial Council in accordance to the Schedule eight of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and published in the Extraordinary Gazette  Notification number
1990/48 dated 29th of October 2016, is amended as follows.
G
AMINI  R AJARA TNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Road Development, Transport,
Powers and Energy, Housing and Construction.
Ministry of Road Development,
Transport, Powers and Energy, Housing and Construction,
04th November, 2016.
“Order made under section 20 of the Passenger Transport Service Authority Statute No. 01 of 2000 and 24 (2)
(1) (xii), (xiii) and 24(3) of the Route Passenger Transport Statute No. 04 of 1992 made under the powers vested on the
Provincial Council in accordance to the Schedule eight of the 13
th Amendment to the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'05
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.11.2016
2A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
In addition to the order made in the Special Gazette Notification  No. 1990/27 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka dated 27th of October, 2016 in respect of the new system of Passenger Transport named “SAHASARA”
introduced by the Central Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority, I Ediriweera Weerawardana, Minister of
Central Provincial Road Development, Transport, power and Energy, Housing and Construction as per the powers vested
on me under regulations  24(2) (1) (xii), (xiii) of the Route Passenger Transport Statute No. 04 of 1992 and section 20 of
the regulations of the Passenger Transport Service Authority Statute No. 01 of 2000, hereby order the following and they
shall be effective from the date of publication of this gazette notification.
01.
i. The Central Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority should recognize and declare within a period of
Twelve months from the date of the order of the Minister, all bus routes within its area into separate bus service
units incorporating one or more bus routes.
ii. The appointments of a manager for the administration of the new system of bus service units as declared.
iii. To incorporate such units as declared into an Operations Control Centre for the purpose of administration.
02.
i. From the date of announcement of the Bus Service Unit by the Central Provincial Passenger Transport service
Authority and within such period allowed for the formation of such bus service units, the permit holders who are
authorized to operate such services on such route or routes shall continue to provide bus transport services under
the direction of the Manager appointed by the authority on behalf of such bus service route and to abide by the
advice and time table laid down by the manager from time to time and to render an efficient bus service accordingly.
ii. The Permit Holders shall provide suitable passenger transport by rendering and maintaining an efficient service and
specifically to install and use the GPS equipment, a CCTV camera and the utilization of an electronic fare collection
machine capable of using pre-paid cards using GPRS technology that will be specified.
iii. All income derived daily shall be credited to an account maintained in the name of the Central Provincial Passenger
Transport Service Authority opened for this own purpose in a Government Bank. From this income the cost of
technical service for prepaid cards shall be deducted and the balance shall be credited to the accounts of the bus
owners who have supplied buses daily in accordance with the proportion of the cost of supplying the buses.
03. In accordance to the Order No. 01 all route buses in the Central Province shall abide by the regulations set out in
this Gazette from the date of publication.
04. Further, it is declared to nominated not more than eight members to a management advisory  committee to render
suggestions and ideas for the purpose of the development and improvement of the services of a transport unit or
several such units. This committee shall provide advisory services to increase the income, distribution of income,
salaries to employees and a method to secure their social security and bus maintenance.
05. All decision pertaining to the service administration and the standards there of and the introduction of new services
shall be sole vested with the Central Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority.
06.
(i) The Central Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority shall appoint auditors qualified in financial and
technical auditing to audit the declared Bus Service Units.
(ii) The Central Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority shall take necessary action to keep the Audit reports
open and available for inspection at all time to all permit holder of a transport unit.
(iii) Further, the said Auditor shall forward the said Yearly Audit to the Provincial Council through the relevant Minister
in charge of the subject.”
11-971