

<!-- page 1 -->

97 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.05.20
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.05.2016
wxl 1"968- 2016 uehs ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'05'20
No. 1,968 – FRIDAY MAY 20, 2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... 98
97
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th June 2016, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th May
2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G . FONSEKA,
Government Printer (Acting ).
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www. documents. gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.-Akurana Baithuz Zakath (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka  of April 01, 2016
N. B.- Part IV (A) of the Gazette No. 1967 of 13.05.2016 was not published

<!-- page 2 -->

98  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.05.20
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.05.2016
Miscellaneous Notices
ACT TO INCORPORATE THE "SATHYA SRI
GHANAPATHI
BHAKTHI JANA SEWA FOUNDATION"
I, J. M. Ananda Kumarasiri, do hereby give notice under the
Standing Order No.48 of the Standing Orders of the
Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,that
I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill entitled " Act to
incorporate the Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa
Foundation"
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said "Sathya Sri
Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa Foundation" which has the
following General Objects:-
(a) To reconstruct the Sathya Sri Jungle Ghanapathi
Temple and its premises;
(b) To construct a Pilgrims' Rest and other infrastructure
facilities to provide free accommodation to the
devotees;and
(c) To conduct vocational training to the unemployed
youths through the well-wishers attached to the
Temple and to direct them for employment
opportunities,etc.
J.M. A
NANDA KUMARASIRI,
Member of Parliament,
District of Monaragala.
05-519
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE
LASALLIAN COMMUNITY
EDUCATION SERVICES
I, Kalalugoda Kamkanamge Piyadasa do hereby give notice
under standing Order No. 48 (1) of the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to
introduce in Parliament a Bill entitled An Act to incorporate
the Lasallian Community Education Services.
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Lasallian
Community Education Services  which has the following
general objects:-
1. Providing the V ocational training with collaboration of
the National V ocational Training Authority (NVTA) for
youths between the age 16-25 years who have left from
school education,
2. Providing the Kindergarten school services for the
children of the poor parents,
3. Implementing the rehabilitation programs for the freshers
who addict to drugs in order to get rid of them from
using of drugs,
4. Nourishing the infant and pregnant mothers on physical
Health.etc
K. K. P
IYADASA,
Member of Parliament,.
Nuwara Eliya District.
05-662.
P. HARRISON COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION
[ESTABLISHED THROUGH P. HARRISON COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
ACT NO. 44 OF 2014]
Set of Governing Rules
Introduction
THESE rules are the known as the Set of Governing Rules
passed and enacted on 20th April 2016  by the General Council
of the P. Harrison Community Development Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Foundation’) in accordance
with the provisions of section seven of the P. Harrison
Community Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act No.
44 of 2014 passed by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
01 Rule on membership
1.1 Classification of Membership :
(a) Members of the Foundation are classified into two
groups as life members and associate members.
(b) The number of life members of the Foundation shall
not exceed fifty.
(c) Life members shall be the members of the General
Assembly of the Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

99 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.05.20
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.05.2016
(d) Associate members are recruited by the Board of
Directors on the recommendation of the President of
the Foundation.
1. 2 Admission of members :
(a) The power to admit life members shall be executed
by the Board of Directors on the recommendation of
the President.
(b) The power to admit associate members is vested with
the President.
1.3 Life members :
(a) Mr. and Mrs. P. Harrison and the children of the
couple over eighteen years of age are life members.
(b) All those who held membership of the Foundation
as at 24th November 2014, the date on which the
Foundation was incorporated are members of the
Foundation.
(c) On the recommendation of the President of the
Foundation and with the approval of the Board of
Directors, life members can be admitted.
(d) However, the number of members shall not exceed
fifty and the approval of the General Assembly is
required to amend the rules to exceed this number.
1.4 Associate members :
The President is vested with powers to enroll any person
as a member who volunteers for the achievement of  the
aims and objectives of the Foundation.
1.5 Removal of life members :
(a) if any life member acts in such manner detrimental
to the advancement and future wellbeing of the
Foundation, the Board is vested with powers to
terminate his/her membership subsequent to a
summary inquiry.
(b) There is no need to show cause for the removal
from life membership.
1.6 Removal and expulsion from the associate membership
shall be at the discretion of the President.
1.7 Resignation from membership :
(a) Life member can resign voluntarily and the
request of resignation shall be conveyed in
writing to the Secretary of the Board.
(b) The Board is vested with powers either to accept
or reject a request made as per (a) above.
(c) If the Board accepts the resignation, it shall be
conveyed to the relevant person by the Secretary
to the Board.
1.8 Expiration of membership
The membership shall expire on account of the following
reasons. :
(a) Death of the member,
(b) Member becoming mentally deranged or in such weal
physical condition that he/she is unable actively
participate in the activities of the Foundation.
(c) Imprisonment consequent to being convicted of a
criminal act .
1.9 Membership fees :
(a) Every life member should pay one off payment of
Rs.1000/- as membership fee to the Foundation.
(b) No member is entitled to a refund of this membership
fee on account of resignation, expulsion from and
expiration of membership.
02.  General Assembly of the Foundation
2.1 Composition and functioning of the General Assembly :
2.1.1 The General Assembly of the Foundation consists of
its life members.
2.1.2 The person who is elected as President of the
Foundation as per Rule 3.2 (a) shall be the President
of the General Assembly.
2.1.3 The Secretary to the Board of Directors/ Director
(Development and Members’ Affairs) appointed as
per Rule 03 (b) shall be the Secretary of the General
Assembly.
2.2  Powers of the General Council :
2.2.1 Enacting rules pertaining to the administration,
management and functions of the Foundation and
timely amendment and / or repeal of the existing rules.
2.2.2  Approving annual budget,
2.2.3 Approving the annual action and development plans,

<!-- page 4 -->

100  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.05.20
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.05.2016
2.2.4  Filling the vacancies that occur in the Board as per
the provisions of the rules,
2.2.5 Reviewing and approving annual reports, accounts
and audit reports.
2.3  General Meeting :
2.3.1 The annual anniversary general meeting shall be held
within 06 months of the conclusion of accounting
year.
2.3.2  Special general meetings can be called on a decision
taken by the Board of Directors and/ or at the
discretion of the President.
2.3.3 The quorum of a general meeting is 1/3 of the members
of the General Assembly.
2.3.4 The right of the casting vote in respect of proposals
of the general meeting lies with the President.
3.0 Board of Directors of the Foundation
3.1 The Board of Directors of the Board shall consist of at
least seven members and the maximum number shall
not exceed fifteen.
3.2 The composition of the Board of Directors of the
Foundation is as follows. :
(a) Mr. P . Harrison is the ex-officio President and the
Managing Director of the Foundation.
(b) The President shall appoint two of the life members
as members of the Board of Directors for the following
posts. :
1 . Secretary/Director (Development and
Members’ Affairs)
2. Director/ Treasurer (Finance)
(c) The General Council shall elect the other members of
the Board of Directors from among the membership.
(d) The power to assign duties to the members of the
Board of Directors lies with the President.
3.3 Term of office of the Board of Directors :
3.3.1 The official term of office of the members of
the Board of Directors appointed by the
General Assembly is 03 years.
3.3.2 When a post of a member of the Board of
Directors appointed as per 3.3.1 above by
the General Council falls vacant, the Board
of Directors may appoint one of the
members to fill the vacant post in the Board
of Directors subject to the covering
approval of the General Assembly. At the
subsequent general meeting, action should
be taken to seek covering approval for such
appointment. The term of office a member
of the Board of Directors thus appointed to
fill a vacancy shall be in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.3 (c) of the Act.
3.3.3 ]The official term of directors appointed as
per Rule 3.2 (a) shall be 03 years and the
President has the authority to remove any
of them and fill the vacancy from among
the other life members. Notwithstanding,
the term of office those appointed to vacant
posts shall be in accordance with provisions
of section 2.3 (c) of the Act.
3.4   Powers of the Board of Directors  :
3.4.1 The executive power of the Foundation lies
with the Board of Directors and the Board
may delegate its powers to the President
and the members of the Board of Directors.
3.4.2 The power to execute the decisions of the
Board of Directors is entrusted to the
President / Managing Director.
3.5  Meetings of the Board of Directors :
3.5.1 The Board of Directors shall meet at least
once every three months.
3.5.2 The Secretary of the Foundation shall also
be the Secretary of the Board of Directors
and he/she shall convene the meetings of
the Board in due manner and cause minutes
to be recorded properly.
3.5.3 The meetings of the Board of Directors shall
be chaired by the President / Managing
Director and in his absence the pro tem
President.
3.5.4 The quorum of a meeting of the Board of
Directors shall be 1/3 of the total number of
members of the Board.

<!-- page 5 -->

101 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.05.20
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.05.2016
3.5.5  The President has the right for the casting
vote in respect of the decisions of the Board
of Directors.
3.6  Expiration of the membership of the Board of Directors :
The term of office shall expire on account of the following
reasons.
3.6.1 Expiration of term of office of three years.
3.6.2  Resignation as per due procedure.
3.6.3 Death of the member
3.6.4 The member becoming mentally deranged or
physically too weak to carry out duties.
3.6.5 Applicable only to Directors appointed as per 2.3 (c)
‘Removal from the Board of Directors’.
3.6.6  Expulsion from the membership of the Board by the
General Assembly.
3.6.7 Expiration of the life membership of the Foundation
as per Rule 1.8.
3.7  Responsibilities of the Board :
3.7.1  Directing, regulating and evaluating the activities of
the Foundation as per approved plans and the budget.
3.7.2 Proper management and protection of financial and
non financial assets of the Foundation.
3.7.3  Carrying out all such acts necessary for the attainment
of the goals and objectives of the Foundation.
3.7.4 T aking measures for proper accounting of all financial
and non financial transactions.
3.7.5 Obtaining the approval of the General Assembly for
the annual budget and the action plan.
3.7.6  Submitting annual accounts and audit reports to the
General Assembly.
3.7.7 Strategic planning and corroborating the progress and
growth of the Foundation.
3.7.8  Securing local and foreign aid to raise funds required
for the Foundation and entering into agreement in
respect of them.
3.7.9  Acquisition, sale mortgage of assets on behalf of the
Foundation and entering into agreements in respect
of them.
04. President of the Foundation
4.1 Mr. P. Harrison shall be the lifelong President of the
Foundation.
4.2 When Mr. P. Harrison is unable to serve as President,
either his spouse or a child of over 18 years shall
become the President of the Foundation.  On such an
occasion, the Secretary to the Board shall be informed
as to who the President is and the Secretary in turn
shall inform the General Assembly.
 4.3 The President is also the Managing Director of the
Board.
4.4 The executive powers of the Foundation lie with the
President and Managing Director and such powers
shall be exercised by the Board.
05.  Secretary of the Foundation
5.1 In accordance with Rule 3.2 (b), the President shall
appoint the Secretary of the Foundation to serve for a
period of three years.
5.2 The three year term of the Secretary appointed as per
5.1 above commences on the day on which the
members are appointed to the Board by the General
Assembly as per Rule 3.2 (c).
5.3 The Secretary of the Foundation shall serve as its
Director (Development and Members’ Affairs)
5.4 Maintaining registers of members in good order and
calling general meetings and meetings of the Board
shall also be carried out by the Secretary.
5.5 It shall be the responsibility of the Secretary to execute
statutory duties required as per the provisions of the
Act.
5.6 He shall also execute the duties assigned by the Board
to the post of Director (Development and Members’
affairs)

<!-- page 6 -->

102  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.05.20
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.05.2016
06. Treasurer of the Foundation
6.1 The Treasurer shall be appointed by the President in
accordance with Rule 2.3 (c).
6.2 The term of office of the Treasurer appointed as per 6.1
above is 03 years. The term of office commences with
effect from the date on which the Board is appointed
by the General Assembly.
6.3 The Treasurer of the Board shall function as its Director
(Finance).
6.4 It shall be the responsibility of the Treasurer to conduct
financial transactions, maintain financial documents,
maintain accounts and prepare annual accounts in a
due manner.
6.5 Proper documentation of the assets of the Foundation,
documenting non financial aid and grants shall be
properly carried out by the Treasurer.
6.6 The Director (Finance) shall execute duties entrusted
to him by the Board with due diligence.
6.7 He shall initiate action to prepare final annual accounts
and submit safe for the Auditor General for auditing
and present the Audit Report to the General Council.
07. Financial transactions and accounts of the Foundation
7.1 Financial and ban transactions
7.1.1 The foundation shall maintain current accounts,
savings accounts and fixed deposit accounts.
7.1.2 W ithdrawal slips of banks, out- payment documents
and cheques should be signed by the President and
the Treasurer of the Foundation.
7.1.3 All moneys received by the Bank shall be deposited in
bank and all payments shall be in the form of bank
transactions. Notwithstanding, this shall not hinder
the maintenance and expend cash imprest.
7.1.4 The Authority and approval for all payments shall lie
with the President and the Treasurer shall certify and
make all payments.
7.2 Accounts
7.2.1 The financial year of the Foundation shall be the
calendar year.
7.2.2 The Foundation shall maintain main accounts
pertaining to transactions, ledge accounts and
personal ledge accounts in a due manner.
7.2.3  Final accounts shall be prepared within three months
of the conclusion of the financial to the audit as per
the provisions of section 10 (3) of the Act.
7.2.4 Prior to being submitted for the audit as per 7.2.3 above,
the audit report should be submitted to the annual
general meeting for its approval.
08. Provisions in respect of the staff of the Foundation
8.1 The Board of the Foundation is vested with powers to
determine the number of employees required for the
foundation, determine the salaries and allowances of
the staff, recruit and promote employees, dismiss
employees from service, terminate employment and
formulate governing rules for employees.
8.2 The powers of the Board with respect to appointment
and as the disciplinary authority of employees may be
delegated to the President / Managing Director of the
Board.
8.3 The chief of staff of the Foundation is its President /
Managing Director.
8.4 The power to secure consultancy services required
for the Foundation and appoint consultants is vested
the President. Consultants are not members of the staff.

<!-- page 7 -->

103 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.05.20
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.05.2016
09. Meetings of the Foundation
9.1 The calling of the meetings of the Board, special general
meetings and general meetings of the Foundation shall
be carried out in a due manner by the Secretary of the
Foundation.
9.2 The notice convening the Annual General Meeting
shall be conveyed to the members 14 days before the
Annual General Meeting and 07 days before a special
general meeting together with the agenda and the
relevant documents.
9.3 The President has the authority to enact provisions
and determine on matters not covered by the Act, rules
and decisions of the general meetings.
10. Seal of the Foundation
10.1 The Foundation shall have an official seal.
10.2 The seal of the Foundation shall be in custody of the
secretary of the Board of the Foundation and it is his
duty to keep it safe and secure.
10.3 In activities that require the official seal to be affixed,
both the President and the Secretary shall place their
signatures.
S.A.D.S.L,W
EERASINGHA,
Secretary/ Director
(Development and Members’ Affairs)
P . Harrison CommunityDevelopment Foundation.
P. HARRISON,
Chairman,
P. Harrison Community
Development Foundation.
05-612
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.