

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
989
989
wxl 1"711 - 2011 cqks ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'06'17
No. 1,711 – FRIDAY, JUNE 17, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 992
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1005
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th June, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th June,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,710 of 10.06.2011 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
990
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
991
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
992
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th Jul y, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
23rd May, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division application are called applications should be sent
Badulla Passara Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  of Passara Town Division   General, District Secretariat,
  Badulla
06–244
–––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
993
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th Jul y, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
19th May, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division application are called applications should be sent
Kandy Akurana Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  of Harispattuwa Udugampaha   General, District Secretariat,
  No. 03 Division   Kandy
06–152
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
HAMBANTOTA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th Jul y, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
26th May, 2011.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
994
THE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Hambantota Agunakolapelessa Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  (General) of Giriwa Pattuwa East   General, District Secretariat,
  and Births and Deaths of   Hambantota
  Wevugampalatha Division
06–337
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th Jul y, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
May, 2011.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  (General), Births and Deaths of   General, District Secretariat,
  Galle Four gravets Divisional   Galle
  Secretary's Division (Tamil Medium)
06–338

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
995
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
OFFICER  CADET  AND  LADY  OFFICER  CADET  V ACANCIES
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following branches:
(a) General Duties Pilot Branch (Male)
(b) Logistics Branch (Male and Female)
(c) Administrative Branch (Male)
(d) Administrative Regiment Branch (Male and Female)
(e) Operations Air Branch (Male)
2.  Applications are invited from male/female candidates possessing the qualifications given below:-
(a) BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant Qualifications (Accredited by the University of Kelaniya)
General Duties Pilot/Logistics/Administrative/Administrative Regiment and Operations Air Branches :
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala /Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the GCE A/L examination in Physical/Bio Science/Commerce
Streams (as applicable) in one sitting.
(b) Non Degree Programme Entrant Qualifications  :
General Duties Pilot/Logistics/ Administrative/Administrative Regiment and Operations Air Branches  :
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered) and ordinary passes in two subjects at the G. C. E. A/L examination in Physical/Bio Science/Commerce
Streams (as applicable) in one sitting. Students of the Arts stream with a minimum of two ordinary passes at the
G. C. E. A/L examination are also eligible to apply for the Administrative Regiment Branch.
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air
Force.
(a) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Age : Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years as at 30th September, 2011 ;
(c) Height : Male - 5 feet 6 inches and above ;
Female - 5 feet 4 inches and above ;
19 < BMI < 25
(d) Weight : BMI = 
Weight (kg)
   Height3(m)
(e) Chest : male - 32" (minimum )
(f) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without spectacles)
(h) Civil Status :  Candidates must be unmarried. No cadet will be permitted to marry whilst under training and for a
further period of one (01) year from the Date of Commissioning.
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the requirement of para. 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview
the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight are below the standard specified in the Gazette
Notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service
may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered even though he / she may not have the requisite height pr ovided
he / she possesses the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
6. Conditions of service :–
(a) The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as a Cadet on a regular engagement in the same manner as for Other
Ranks and will undergo a Basic Combat Training Course. On successful completion of training, the duration of which

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
996
will depend on the branch, the status allocated on his / her enlistment as an Other Rank will lapse and will receive a
Permanent Commission in the rank of Pilot Officer.
(b) Cadets will be required to undergo training at a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the Commander of the Air
Force in consultation with the Ministry of Defence.
(c) During the period of training as Cadets and thereafter, personnel will be subject to Air Force Law.
(d) Every Cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
(e) During the period of training, a Cadet will be accommodated in an Air Force Mess and will be provided with food.
(f) In the event of a Cadet voluntarily terminating his / her candidature for a commission during training, the parent or
guardian will be required to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic
of Sri Lanka on account of such Cadet.
(g) If at any time during his / her course a Cadet is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct
or due to causes within his/her control to qualify for a commission, his/her parent or guardian will be required to refund
to the Sri Lanka Air Force all expenses incurred on his/her training and will be required to enter into a bond to this effect
with the Commander of the Air Force acting on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 27 of the application form in respect of sub-paragraphs (f) &
(g) above, and forward them together with the application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter into a bond
subsequently in this form with the Republic of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates as Cadets.
(j) Candidates who possess the requirement as per para. 2 and 3 will be called for the Preliminary Interview and if
successful will be called for the Officer Quality Tests. Candidates who pass the Officer Quality Tests will be called for
Medical Examinations (All candidates selected will be medically examined under Sri Lanka Air Force arrangements) and
if applicable Flying Aptitude Tests. Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be called for the Final
Interview. The required number of candidates per branch will be selected according to merit at these interviews and
tests.
(k) A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He/She is provided with furnished accommodation and food.
Batman service will be provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance and batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
(l) A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable to public
servants.
(m) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
(n) All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
7. Official Language Requirements: - The selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions
the Official Language Act No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) Consolidated pay rate : The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Officer Cadets and Commissioned Ranks shall be
as follows:
Officer Cadet - Rs.l80,240  p.a
Pilot Officer - Rs.229,200  p.a
Flying Officer - Rs.275,220 – 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380  p. a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs.321,660 – 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380  p. a.
Squadron Leader - Rs.352,620 – 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380  p. a.
Wing Commander - Rs.362,100 – 20 x 9,480 - Rs. 551,700  p. a.
Group Captain - Rs.441,060 – 18 x 12,600 - Rs. 667,860  p.a
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance of Rs. 5,850 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 - per month for those serving in operational areas.
(5) Special enhanced allowance Rs. 3,000 - per month (Rs.100 - will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
997
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 11,464.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
(10) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Special allowance 5% of consolidated salary.
(12) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (For Officer, spouse & children).
(13) An additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for Officers living in Messes to travel from
the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(14) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(15) Free medical facilities (including for families if applicable).
(16) Married Officers permitted to live - out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(17) Flying pay for those in the General Duties Pilot Branch.
(18) Rent allowances for married Officers not in occupation of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain & above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
9. Pensions/Gratuities:- Payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to time.
All Officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Force) Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows a nd
Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
10. Instructions to Applicats :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant’s own hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages of
the application should be completed neatly with as much details as possible. Applications should be forwarded under
registered cover to : "CHIEF RECRUITING OFFICER, SRI LANKA AIR FORCE, EKALA, KOTUGODA" so as
to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 24th June, 2011. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked
"APPLICATION FOR CADETSHIP I LADY CADETSHIP IN THE ............................ BRANCH". Applications
received after the closing date and not in accordance with the requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/ Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their applications
through their Heads of Department /Corporations /Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate to the
effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interviews or
when called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued for the purpose of the education code will not be accepted)
(2) Certificates in support of the educational qualifications required for the branch applied for.
(3) Certificates of trade/technical training and/or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the Principal of the last school attended and the
other from a responsible person who has the know of the applicant for more than two years or from the present
employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadeting etc.
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after selection.
12. Selection Interviews etc. :–
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates so selected
will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final selection will
then be made after an interview of those selected candidates by a selection board appointed by the Ministry of
Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing of the place, time and date of such interviews. Traveling
or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he / she is to produce his / her National Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
998
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board.
(e) Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his / her testimonial. Any form of canvassing
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
HD ABEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo 02.
APPLICATION  FOR  OFFICER  CADET/LADY OFFICER CADET IN THE ................................
BRANCH OF THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
1. Nationality :–––––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––––––––––.
3. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
4. Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
5. Postal address :–––––––––––––.
6. Date of Birth :–––––––––––––.
(Age as at 30th September, 2011) :
Years :–––––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––––.
7. Height :–––––––––––––.
8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––––.
9. District :–––––––––––––.
10. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
11. G.S. Division :–––––––––––––.
12. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
13. Married or Single :–––––––––––––.
14. Gender :–––––––––––––.
15. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications obtained :
Name of School/University Type of examination Year of examination Subjects passed (including grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Other
16. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if applicable) :
Name & address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From               To
17. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present address
Father
Mother

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
999
18. Any special qualification for the post :––––––––––––.
19. Details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. and s tandards/
levels achieved) :––––––––––––.
20. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside organizations (Give details with dates / years etc.) :–––––– –––.
21. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :––––––––––––.
22. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :––––––––––––.
23. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :––––––––––––.
24. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public Sector / Board / Corporation (including the Central Bank, National
Banks, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :––––––.
25. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
26. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :–
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for Commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
27. Declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant :
(a) I am the Parent / Guardian of ....................... who is an applicant for a Cadetship in the Sri Lanka Air Force and who has signed
the declaration in Cage 26 of the form of application above.
(b) I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a course of training for the
following :–
(i) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant voluntarily terminating his / her
candidature for a Commission during his/her period of training, all expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic
of Sri Lanka on account of such applicant.
(ii) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant reported on by the authorities as
being unsuitable (For reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/her own control) for the issue of a Commission
all the expenses incurred on his/her account by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Parent/Guardian.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name  :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of First Witness.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name  :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Second Witness.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
          (in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
06–313

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1000
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
Promotion of  Officers  in  Class I  of Sri  Lanka  Administrative  Service  to Special Grade
APPLICATIONS are hereby called for promotion of officers to the posts which have fallen vacant in the approved cadre in Special Grade
indicated in Section 2, para 3 of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute.
02. As per provisions of the Sri Lanka Administrative service minute published in the Gazette No. 1,419/3 dated 14.11.2005,
revised by the Gazette Extraordinary  Nos. 1,422/23, 1,458/2 and 1,697/10 dated 09.12.2005, 14.08.2006 and 16.03.2011 promotions to
Special Grade in relation to the period from 01.01.2005 up to 01.01.2011 will be made under Section 17( c).
03. Method of promotions :
3.1 The number of officers not exceeding twice the number of vacancies to be filled, shall be interviewed by a board
consisting of three members appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers.
3.2 80% of the vacancies will be filled by promoting officers who have satisfied qualification under category 1 and 2
indicated under para 4.1 and 4.2 of the below, whilst 20% of the vacancies will be filled on seniority and merit by
promoting officers who have satisfied qualifications under category 3 and 4, indicated under 4.3 and 4.4 of the
paragraph 4.
When the seniority and merit are taken in to consideration, the possession of qualification in 14(1)( d) or 19(1)(b)
of the service minute either on the date of promotion or within the interim period shall be treated as the merit
(Cabinet decision No. CP/11/0881/523/071 dated 04.05.2011. Accordingly, officers who have satisfied the required
merit shall be promoted to special grade as the order of seniority existed in Class/Grade I of SLAS, before the
promotion.
3.3 Accordingly the seniority list in relation to each date of promotion shall be prepared as the order of seniority
existed before the promotion of officers, who have become qualified to be promoted on each of such dates.
3.4 Promotions to be made relevant to 01.01.2005 shall be made as per the Cabinet decision No. CP/09/1372/317/048
dated 22.10.2009.
04. Qualifications.– Shall have satisfied qualifications in relation to any one of the following 04 categories :
4.1 Category 1 : Qualifications to be satisfied by the officers who will become qualified under 17(c), (i) of the Service
Minute.
4.1.1 Shall have completed 5 years satisfactory service in Class/Grade 1 of Sri Lanka Administrative Service. (The
period of 5 years shall be calculated subject to the conditions in V:2:5:4, XII:16:9, XII:16:10 and XII:36:1:4 (i)
and (ii) of the Establishments Code and conditions stipulated in disciplinary decisions).
4.1.2 Shall have satisfied, qualifications under 14(i)( d) or 19(1)( b) of the Service Minute either on the date of
promotion or, within interim period.
4.1.3 Shall have earned all the salary increments, falling within the 5 years immediately preceding the date on which
the officer satisfies qualifications for promotion and shall have not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment
in same period of time. (Since it is mentioned in XII. 16.9 of Establishments Code that the salary increments
earned under XII. 16.7 of Establishments Code are not considered in granting promotions, it shall not be taken
in to consideration in this regard).
4.1.4 Shall have been recommended that the work and conduct of the officer during the period mentioned in 4:1:3
was satisfactory by relevant authority.
4.2 Category 2 : Qualifications to be satisfied by the officers who will qualified under 17( c)(i) note 1 of the Service
Minute.
4.2.1 Shall have been a granted a formal appointment to a Post in Special Grade on or before 14.11.2005.
4.2.2 Shall have satisfied qualifications indicated in 14(i)( d) of the service Minute on or before 14.11.2005.
4.2.3 Shall have satisfied requirements in 4.1.3 and 4.1.4 above.
4.3 Category 3 : Qualifications to be satisfied by the officers who will become qualified under 17(c) (ii) of the Service
Minute.
4.3.1 Shall have completed 10 years service in Class/Grade I of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
(The period of 10 years shall be calculated subject to the conditions in V:2:5:4, XII:16:9, XII 16:10 and
XII:36:1:4(i) and (ii) of the Establishments Code and conditions stipulated in disciplinary decisions)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1001
4.3.2 Shall have completed qualifications under 19(1)(b) of the Service Minute or have completed that qualification,
within interim period.
4.3.3 Shall have completed qualifications under 14(i)( b) of the Service Minute.
4.3.4 Shall have satisfied requirements in 4.1.3 and 4.1.4.
4.4 Category 4 : Officers who will become qualified under 17( c)(ii) note 2 of the Service Minute.
4.4.1 Shall have been appointed formally to a Post in Special Grade on or before 14.11.2005.
4.4.2 Shall have satisfied requirements in 4.3.1, 4.3.3 and 4.3.4.
Officers who had become qualified under above category 4 as at 01.01.2005, 01.07.2005 and 01.01.2006 officers who had
become qualified under category 1 and 3 above as at 01.07.2006, 01.01.2007, 01.07.2007, 01.01,2008, 01.07.2008, 01.01.2009, 01.07.2009,
01.01.2010, 01.07.2010 and 01.01.2011 shall send their applications filled in accordance with the specimen attached herewith, t o reach
the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs through Secretary's of respective Ministries and Head of Departments
before 21.07.2011. Under no any circumstance, application sent after above date shall be accepted. Further application which ar e
incomplete and with false information shall be rejected.
Those officers, who have been in the service up to 01.01.2005 or after that date and possessed required qualification under any
category of para 4, but did not receive promotion even though appeared for interview or who could not apply for promotion, shal l apply
for there promotion even though they are now retired.
Application form can be downloaded through www.pubad.gov.lk./publication-list.php.
On the order of the Cabinet of Ministers,
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
01st June, 2011.
Form of Application for Promotion of officers in Class I of Sri Lanka Administrative Service to Special Grade
For office use only
Number of the Application S
F
Part - (a) To be filled by the officer.
01. Name –
1.1 Name in full : Miss/Mrs./Mr. :––––––––––––.
1.2 Name indicated in the letter of appointment :––––––––––––.
02. Number of the N. I. C. :––––––––––––.
03. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
04. Private address :––––––––––––.
05. Telephone No. –
5.1 Residence :––––––––––––.
5.2 Mobile :––––––––––––.
06. 6.1 Post :––––––––––––.
(Post hold at present/if retired post held the time of retirement)
6.2 If retired, state the date of retirement :––––––––––––.
07. Ministry/Department :––––––––––––.
08. Official Address :––––––––––––.
09. 9.1 Official Telephone Number :––––––––––––. 9.2 Official Fax Number :––––––––––––.
10. Date of Appointments and Promotions :
10.1 Date of appointment to SLAS Grade II/II (Class III) :––––––––––––.
10.2 Date of Promotion to SLAS Grade II/I (Class II) :––––––––––––.
10.3 Date of Promotion to SLAS Grade/Class I :––––––––––––.
(Certified copy of the formal letter of promotion to Grade/Class I should be attached as No. 10.3)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1002
11. Periods of absence from service and deductions from service period as disciplinary punishments after promotion to Class I :
11.1 Service deduction due to obtaining of leave (Complete only if relevant)
Serial Conditions applied in granting Duration Number of days by which
No. approvals for leave the service is deducted
T o        From Y  M D
(i) V:2.5.4 of Establishment Code
(ii) XII:16 of Establishment Code
(iii) Management Service circular No. 10
(iv) Management Service Circular No. 33
(v) XII:36 of Establishment Code
(vi) Other (No pay leave)
Total No. of leave by which the service period is deducted
(Certified copies of letters by which the leave has been approved should be attached by numbering them as 11.1.i, 11.1.ii, 11.1.iii etc.,
as applicable).
11.2 Deduction of the service on disciplinary grounds. (Complete only if relevant)
Disciplinary Decision Duration in which the offence Number of days by which
has been committed as per the service period is deducted
charge sheet Y M D
(i) Deferring ............... salary increments
(ii) Others
Total Number of days by which the service period is deducted
(Certified copies of disciplinary decisions shall be attached by numbering them as 11.2.i, 11.2.ii, 11.2.iii, etc., as applicab le)
11.3 Total of 11.1 and 11.2 : Year :––––––––––––, Month :––––––––––––, Date :––––––––––––.
11.4 The date after removing the period in 11.3 above out of the period from the date of appointment to Class I :–––––––––––.
12. Date on which the officer becomes eligible to apply for promotion :
(The date out of the following dates - 01.01.2005, 01.07.2005, 01.01.2006, 01.07.2006, 01.01.2007, 01.07.2007, 01.01.2008,
01.07.2008, 01.01.2009, 01.07.2009, 01.01.2010, 01.07.2010 and 01.01.2011)
12.1 Category 1 : The nearest date of promotion fallen after the date on which the 5 years period is completed from the date
indicated in 11.4 above or, if 11.4 is not appilcable, the date as which 5 years period is completed from the date of
appointment to Class I/Grade I :––––––––––––.
12.2 Category 2 : Either 01.01.2005 or the nearest date of promotion fallen after date of formal appointment to a post in Specia l
Grade :
If the date of appointment to the Post of Special Grade :
(a) Is before the 01.01.2005, the eligible date to apply for promotion is 01.01.2005 :––––––––––––.
(b) If the date of appointment fallen between 01.01.2005 - 14.11.2005 the date of promotion shall be the nearest promotion
date fallen after above date i. e. 01.07.2005 or 01.01.2006 :––––––––––––.
(Appointment made to a post in Special Grade after 14.11.2005 do. not full under this category)
12.3 Category 3 : The nearest date of promotion fallen after date on which the period of 10 years is completed from the date
indicated 11.4 above or, if it is not applicable, the date on which the period of 10 years is completed from the date of
appointment to Class I/Grade I :––––––––––––.
12.4 Category 4 : Either 01.01.2005 or the nearest date of promotions falling after the date of formal appointment to a Post of
Special Grade :––––––––––––.
Date of appointment to the Post in Special Grade :––––––––––––.
(a) The date of promotions shall be 01.01.2005, if the date of appointment is before 01.01.2005 :––––––––––––.
(b) If the date of appointment falls between 01.01.2005 and 14.11.2005, the date of promotion shall be the nearest date
fallen after above date i. e. 01.07.2005 or 01.01.2006 :––––––––––––.
(Appointment made to a post is Special grade after 14.11.2005 do. not full under this category.)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1003
12.5 According to the clarification in, above Category : 4
Category in which the officer becomes eligible :––––––––––––.
Date on which the officer becomes eligible :––––––––––––.
13. The requirement of having earned salary increments within period immediately preceding 5 years :
13.1 Has/Has not* earned all salary increments** falling within 5 years immediately preceding the date as which the officer
becomes eligible for promotion, as per 12.5 above. (Salary increments obtained under the Section xii:16:9 xii:16:10 and
xii:36:1:4(i) and (ii) establishment code are not accepted for the promotion) * (Cross words inapplicable) :––––––––––––.
13.2 If the officer has not earned salary increments** within the 5 years immediately preceding the date indicated in 12.52, the
date on which the officer becomes eligible for promotion shall be re-calculated. Accordingly, the date on which the officer
becomes eligible for promotion should be :––––––––––––.
**(Attach the certified copies of 05 salary increment slips Numbering them from 13.1 to 13.5)
14. The requirement of not having subjected to a disciplinary punishment within the immediately preceding five years :
14.1 As per the personal file the officer has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment within the 5 years immediately
preceding the date mentioned in 12.5 above or the date revised under 13.2. (This should be confirmed by the Head of
Department by a written statement - under part "b" of the application) :––––––––––––.
14.2 If the officer has been subjected to a disciplinary punishment during the period mentioned in 14.1 and comments have been
made under 11.2 and further the date mentioned under 12.5 is also revised, such date is :––––––––––––.
14.3 The revised date, if the date in 12.5 is revised as per 13.2 and 14.2 :––––––––––––.
15. The requirement of indicating in the annual performance report that the officers' work and conduct are satisfactory within t he
immediately preceding 5 years :
Five years immediately proceeding the year in relation to the date on which the officer becomes eligible as per 12, 13 or 14 above shall
be indicated in the 1st column of following table. Further certified copies of relevant 5 performance reports shall be attached .
Performance reports which have not been duly signed and selected by the relevant officer and the reports where more than one
alternative recommendation have been indicated in final evaluations shall not be accepted :
Year Final evaluation Excellent/above Whether relevant authority is
average/satisfactorily/poor signed and sealed evaluation
Each row and column shall be filled in accordance with the performance evaluation report of each other.
16. The requirement of having fulfilled the qualification prescribed in 14(d) of the Service Minute. (complete, only if relevant ) :
16.1 16.2 16.3 16.4 16.5 16.6 16.7
Serial Name of the Post Fild of The University Whether that university Duration of the Effective
No. Graduate Degree study has been recognized by the degree (starting date date of the
University Grants and ending date) degree
Commissions as a university
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
(Certified copies of Degree Certificates and the detailed results (Trnascrip sheet shall be attached as 16.1)
17. Requirement of completion of the qualifications in 19(1)(b) of the Service Minute. (Complete only if relevant) :
17.1 Topic of the policy paper :––––––––––––.
17.2 Date of completions (effectives date) of the policy paper :––––––––––––.
(A certified copy of the certificates issued by Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration to the effect that the task
has been successfully, completed, shall be attached as 17.1)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1004
18. Appointment to a Post in Special Grade (Complete, only if relevant) :
18.1 18.2 18.3 18.4 18.5
Serial Duration Designation and Appointment was made by Nature of the appointment/attending to
No. service Station Cabinet/Governor/Public duties/Acting/substantive/Contract
Service Commission
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
(Certified copies of all letters of appointment shall be attached as 18.1, 18.2 etc.)
Please answer the relevant Sections out of 16, 17 and 18 above.
Application containing correct and all information form 01 to 18 above and certified copies of all documents required to be
attached, are hereby subjected as a file by numbering them consecutively and indicating the number relevant to the facts at the  top right
corner of the each document.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant,
Designation and Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––––.
Part (b) – To be filled by the Head of the Departments :
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs/relevant Ministry,
1. Particulars mentioned above by the officer are correct.
2. Matters relevant to No. 11, 13, 14 and 18 have been compared with particulars in the file. Accordingly, it is herey certified
that all the particulars mentioned are correct, they have been submitted in perfect manner and further certified copies of all
relevant documents are hereby attached.
3. Whether action is being taken to commence disciplinary action against the officer or disciplinary action is being/is not bein g
taken.
3.1 If the answer is - "is being taken", the date on which the applicant has been committed.
3.2 Date of issuance of the charge sheet by disciplinary authority.
4. Work/attendance/conduct of Mr./Mrs./Miss ................. are satisfactory. Further the officer's performance, leadership,
capability and the capacity to hold posts and responsibilities in relations to next promotion have been taken into consideration.
Accordingly, it is hereby recommended to promote to officer to Special Grade of SLAS.
5. Application perfected correctly in each and every way and the file containing certified copies of relevant documents which
have been numbered consecutively in accordance with each matter are sent herewith.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department/Institution,
Designation and Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––––.
Note.– cross words in applicable.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1005
Part (c) – To be filled by the Secretary of the respective Ministry :
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
1. I agree/do not agree with the recommendations made by the Head of Department/Institutions on the work and conduct of
Mr./Ms./Miss ............................ officer in Class I of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
2. The works/conduct/special skill and performance of the officer have been duly evaluated.
It is hereby recommended* to promote Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. to Special Grade of Sri Lanka Administrative
Service.
*(Indicate reasons if the promotion is not recommended)
3. Application perfected correctly in each and every way and the file containing certified copies of relevant documents which
have been numbered consecutively in accordance with each matter are sent herewith.
–––––––––––––––,
Secretary.
Ministry of ––––––––––––.
Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––––.
06–353
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND  HOME  AFFAIRS
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  THE  WRITTEN  TEST  ON  COMPUTER  SKILLS  FOR  OFFICERS
IN  CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2010(1) (2011)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination and a Written Test on computer Skills for officers in Class III of the  Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations, as per the relevant provisions of th e
approved Service Minutes, in the month of September, 2011.
2.0 Information on the eligibility of the candidates are furnished in Section Nos. 5 and 9 of the Public Management Assistants'
Service Minute published in the Government Extra Ordinary Gazette  No. 1,372/23 of 24.12.2004.
3.0 This examination for officers in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle,
Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The
relevant towns and town numbers are given below. It will not be allowed to change the town applied for subsequently.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
A center without sufficient number of candidates will be cancelled and the relevant candidates will be directed to the next nearest
centre available.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1006
4.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner-General of Examinations and the candidates will be bound
by the rules and regulations imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been separately printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates will be
subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules and
regulations.
5.0 The application for this examination should be in the form of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post  through
the respective Heads of Departments to reach the ‘‘Commissioner - General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinatio ns
Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla" on or before 18th July, 2011. The name of the examination should b e
indicated in the top left hand corner of the envelope of the application. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
6.0 Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervi sor :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above mentioned documents might be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
7.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper of A4 size in such a manner that Para. Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on
the first page. The application could be typewritten but should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriti ng.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended and candidates are advised as not to send more than one applicatio n or
photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected witho ut
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing on the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and  Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself co mplies with
the specimen given in the examination notice and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application  form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the 1st time need not pay examination fees. However, the examination fee of
Rs. 400 for the whole examination and the examination fee of Rs. 200 for a single subject should be affixed for subsequent sittings. This
examination fee can be paid to any District of Divisional Secretariat in the island to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 o f the
Commissioner General of Examination and the receipt should be affixed firmly in the relevant cage. Further it is advisable to k eep a
photocopy of the receipt. Under any circumstances, the fees will not be refunded or transferred in respect of any other examina tion.
8.0 The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate is e ligible to
sit the examination. Candidates should get their signature on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor of the
examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification will be published in
newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. If the admission card is not
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the ma nner
specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations
: i. e.– receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request, furnishing a fax number to which the admission
cards should be sent.
9.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0 This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. The officers may sit for this examination either in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the service or in one of the official languages. Candidates who entered the
service without a competitive examination may sit for the examination in their medium of education or in one of the official languages. The
language medium of examination, mentioned originally in the application cannot be changed subsequently.
11.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at different occasions at their discretion. However they should score at
least 40% of the total marks for each subject, for a pass.
12.0 Commissioner-General of Examinations will release the results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and names of the successful candidates will be published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1007
13.0 Examination Procedure .– Candidates should sit for a written examination that will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration
(i) Office systems 01 100 01 hr.
(ii) Accounting Systems 02 100 01 hr.
(iii) Computer Test 03 100 1 1/2 hrs.
13.1 Office Systems (Subject No. 01) :
Basic knowledge in office systems adopted in Government offices and the ability of practical application of the
knowledge will be tested. Further, the candidates’ ability of understanding official correspondence, ability of indicating
observations/ideas precisely and clearly and the skill of drafting letters as per the instructions given will be tested.
This paper will consist of two parts :–
Part I – Consists of questions that require short answers. Answers should be provided on the paper itself. Should
answer all the questions. (25 marks) ;
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type. Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75 marks).
13.2 Accounting Systems (Subject No. 02) :
Candidates' knowledge in an understanding of basic accounting procedures adopted in Government offices and the
purposes of books and records on financial control will be tested. Paper will consist of two parts :–
Part I – Consists of questions that require short answers. Should provide answers on the paper itself. Should answer
all the questions. (25 marks) ;
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type. Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75 marks).
13.3 Test on Computer Skills (Subject No. 03)  :
Objective of this test is to verify the candidate’s skills on the following :–
Basic concepts of Information Technology
Windows Operating System
File Management
Word Processing Basic skil ls, Screen Familiarization, Editing text Aligning Text, Fonts and Attributes,
Indenting Paragraphs, change of Line Spacing, Tab settings, Finding and replacing
text, Spelling and Grammar, Thesaurus.
Working with columns, Page setup
Printing documents, Creating Tables, Sorting text
File Management
Mail Merging
Working with macros
Spreadsheets Basic Skills
Formatting
Editing
Columns and ranges, Insertion and Deletion
Sorting data
Creating charts
Printing
@ Function
Working with Macros, File Management
Databases Introduction, Basic skills
Databases - Creation and application
Forms
Linked forms, Popup forms, Dialog and message boxes
Queries
Sorting
Reports
Working with macros

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1008
Presentations/Graphics Basic skills, editing, formatting
Applying Designs, Inserting images, clip art and graphs
Slide Transition and effects, Animations
Using Presentation tools, Preparing Masters, Printing slides and notes
Internet Introduction to Internet, World Wide Web, How to Navigate, Practical Internet
E-mail Introduction, basic skills, receiving mail, sending mail, responding to mails
Working with attachements, creating and using nicknames
Composing messages
This paper consists of two parts.
Part I.– Consists of 40 questions of MCQ type that require short answers - Duration 45 minutes (40 marks) ;
Part II.– 05 semi structured questions - Duration 45 minutes. (60 marks).
Note.– As per Section 5:1:2 of Public Management Assistants' Service Minute, officers who possess computer driving licenses
awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority or an equivalent or a higher certificate issued by
institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and V ocational Education Commission, which are given in Appendix I, will
be exempted from the written test on computer skills. Further, the officers who have obtained the certificate of
Computer Application Assistant (NVQ Level 3) offered by the National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
are also exempted from the written test on computer skills.
14.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNA,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and  Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
02nd June, 2011.
APPENDIX I
The document of computer Certificates issued by institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and Vocational Education
Commission.
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.
1. Computer Training Center No. 09, Dharmarama Mawatha, Colombo 06 Compute r Application Assistant
2. Computer Training Center - NAITA Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala Computer Application Assistant
3. Computer Training Center - NAITA No. 525/2, Maithiripala Senanayaka Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Rathnanayakepura, Anuradhapura
4. Apprenticeship Training Institute No. 581, Galle Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa Compute r Application Assistant
5. Computer Training Center - NAITA Ratalankawatta, Mapalana, Kamburupitiya Compute r Application Assistant
6. Sri Saranankara Apprentice Training Udawatta, Baddegama Computer Application Assistant
Centre - NAITA
7. Computer Training Center - NAIT A Mahaweli Economic Agency Building, Computer Application Assistant
Embilipitiya
8. Computer Education Center Divisional Secretariat Offi ce, Anguruwatha, Compute r Application Assistant
Madurawela
9. Technical College W erallawatta, Yakkala, Gampaha Computer Application Assistant
10. Yovun Nikethanaya Computer Application Assistant

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1009
11. V ocational Training Centre National Youth Services Council, Pallidora Road, Computer Application Assistant
Kawdana, Dehiwala
12. National Youth Services Council No. 65, High Level Road, Maharagama Computer Application Assistant
13. Don Bosco Vocational Training Centre Puttalam Road, Nochchiyagama Computer Application Assistant
14. Institute of Professional Computer No. 178A, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Computer Application Assistant
Systems
15. Technology and Computer Training No. 15, 1/1, Piyadasa Sirisena Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Institute Maradana, Colombo 10
16. Cholankanda Youth Trainng Centre Udahenthanna, S. P. O. 20506, Via Gampola Computer Application Assistant
17. Bishop Leo Technical Institute USCOD Center, St. Bedes Home, Badulla
18. SOS Children's Village of Sri Lanka V ocational Training Centre, Maduruketiya, Computer Application Assistant
Monaragala
19. Beeta Com Multimedia and Computer No. 20, Danovita Road, Meerigama Computer Application Assistant
Studies
20. Don Bosco Technical Centre No. 22, Don Bosco Mawatha, Ettukala, Computer Application Assistant
Negombo
21. Rathanasela Nenasala Rathanasela Pirivena, Weegama, Rathmale, Assistant Computer Application
Computer Centre Ku/Itanawatta
22. Navoda Computer Education Institute No. 72, Devananda Road, Navinna, Maharagama Computer Application Assistant
23. N. K. I. Computer Training Institute Manahara Building Pituwala Road, Elpitiya Computer Application Assistant
24. Lanka Tech Computer No. 2/52, Horana Road, Piliyandala Computer Application Assistant
25. M. D. P. Computer Training Institute No. 64/A/1, Station Road, Kadana Computer Application Assistant
26. Infornet Computer Systems No. 143/1A, Ananda Senanayaka Complex, Computer Application Assistant
Katuwana Road, Homagama
27. Informax Computer Technology No. 52, Matale Road, Galewela Computer Application Assistant
28. Advance Training Centre (ATC) No. 02, Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Computer Application Assistant
29. Thondaman Vocational Training Centre Saumymoorthi Thondaman Memorial Computer Application Assistant
Foundation Pool Bank Hatton
30. Sri Lanka Nippon Education and Mahindarama Road, Ethukotte, Kotte Computer Application Assistant
Cultural Center
31. Rural V ocational Training Centre Mudukatuwa, Marawila Computer Application Assistant
32. District V ocational T raining Centre Galigamuwa Town, Ballapana, Kegalle Computer Application Assistant
33. National Vocational Training Centre No. 354, Elvitigala Mawatha, Narahenpita, Computer Application Assistant
Colombo 05
34. District V ocational Training Centre Saragama Kurunegala Computer Application Assistant
35. National V ocational Training Institute No. 100, Kan dawala Road, Ratmalana Computer Application Assistant
36. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Meeta Social Service Foundation, Computer Application Assistant
Weherahena Weherahena, M atara
37. District V ocational Training Centre Wattha, Tissa Road, Wellawaya Computer Application Assistant
38. Agonsu Training Center Saranawattha, Nayamulla, Morawaka Computer Application Assistant
39. Special V ocational T raining Centre Higher Computer Training Institute, Fort, Computer Application Assistant
Matara
40. Kubalgama Sunami Sri Jinendraramaya, Kubalgama, Weligama Computer Application Assistant
V ocational Training Centre
41. Lakviru Sevana Rural No. 48, Bodhirukkarama Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
V ocational Training Centre Wellawaththa, Colombo 06
42. National V ocational Training Institute Niyagama, Thalgaswala Computer Application Assistant
43. District V ocational Training Centre Mirijjawila, Hambanthota Computer Application Assistant
44. Rural V ocational Training Centre Erukkalampiddy, Nagavillu, Palavi Computer Application Assistant
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1010
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(For Office use only)    
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION AND THE WRITTEN TEST ON COMPUTER SKILLS FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE – 2010(1) 2011
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the town in which you intend to sit the examination
according to your preference as per Gazette notification)
 (This cannot be altered subsequently).
Language medium of examination :
Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
English – 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(This cannot be changed subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with Initials :–––––––––––.
(In block capitals) eg. : SILV A  A. B.
1.2 Name in full (In block capitals) :–––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :–––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 N. I. C. No. :
4.0 Subject/s you are offering now : (Refer Para No. 13.0 of the Gazette notification) :
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
01.
02.
03.
5.0 Present Post :
5.1 Post :–––––––––––.
5.2 Appointment Letter Number :–––––––––––.
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––––––––––.
6.2 If not, examination fees paid :–––––––––––.
6.3 District/Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––.
6.4 Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
6.5 Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1011
Please affix the receipt of examination fees paid of Rs. 400 for whole examination and
Rs. 200 for only one subject. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
I declare that the information furnished above is correct and I am eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. The receipt affixed is to the value of Rs. ............. I agree to abide by the ruels and regulations of this  examination
imposed by the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of his/her respective Head of Department or an officer assigned
to sign on behalf of him.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................................. who is an employee of my work station and who is personally kno wn to me
placed his/her signature in my presence on .................... and further stamps to the value of examination fee have been af fixed.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the person attesting.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The information furnished above were verified and ;
(ii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the examination previously ;
(iii) The officer has appeared for the examination previously and *he/she has affixed the receipt of the fees for the releven
examination ;
(iv) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
–––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
06–352
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class 2 Grade II of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service - 2011
THE Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 2-II of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service will be held in Colombo in September,
2011. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media and the candidates will not be permitted to change the m edium
applied for on a later date.
The syllabus of this examination and other provisions have been published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1070/13-1999 dated 11th March, 1999. This syllabus and other provisions are indicated below
for the convenience of the applicants.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1012
An officer may appear for this  Efficiency Bar examination for the prescribed subjects in one instance or in different instances.
(A) Syllabus :—
 Subject Subject Marks Time
No.
(01) General Management and Establishment Work.– Regulations in the Government 100 1 1/2  hours
Establishments Code with special reference to Chapters  i, ii, iii, iv, v, vii, viii, ix,
xii, xiii, xiv, xxiv, xxviii, xxx and xxxi
(02) Financial Regulations With special reference to.– Chapters  i, ii, v, viii, xii and xiv in 100 1 1/2  hours
Part I  of the Government Financial  Regulations
(03) Education Law.– Candidates’ knowledge expected relating 100 2 hours
to the following Ordinances and Acts of Parliament
(i) Education Act, No. 31 of 1939 and regulations framed thereunder
(ii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special Provisions) Act, No. 5 of 1960
(iii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Supplementary Provisions) Act, No. 8 of 1961
(iv) Public Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968, amended by Public Examinations (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1976
(v) Assisted Schools (Special Provisions) Act ,No. 65 of 1981
(vi) National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985
(vii) Colleges of Education Act, No. 30 of 1986
(viii) National Education Commission Act, No. 19 of 1991
(ix) National Authority on Teacher Education Act, No. 32 of 1997
(x) Constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference to the 13th Amendment and Chapter 3 on Fundamental Rights.
(xi) Enactments made by Provincial Councils relating to the Education.
P .S.- Applicants should obtain at least 40% marks for each subject for passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
03. Language medium of the examination:—
(i) Applicants may answer the papers in Official Language or in the National Language.
(ii) Applicants may answer the papers in the language medium of the competitive examination they appeared for joining the
Public Service. Those who joined Public Service without appearing for a competitive examination may answer the papers
in the language medium of the examination they were qualified to join the Public Service.
04. If it is revealed that any candidate had appeared for the examination in a medium he/she is not entitled to appear his/her
candidature will be cancelled.
05. Application should be prepared in conformity with the following specimen form. Application should be prepared by
including all items in the first page and the relevant information should be filled in applicant’s own handwriting. Application s which do
not conform to the Specimen Application and those with incomplete information will be rejected without any intimation. It will be useful
to keep a photocopy of the application with the applicant and the applicant should verify whether the completed application is in
conformity with the specimen form given in the examination notification as otherwise the application will be rejected. In prepa ring the
application the name of the examination mentioned at the top of the application should be indicated in English in addition to Sinhala in the
Sinhala applications and in English in addition to Tamil in the Tamil applications.
06. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and Applicants are bound to abide by the
rules and regulations imposed by him for conducting this examination.
07. Applications should be sent under registered post addressed to Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of  Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to be reached on or before 18th July, 2011. A ny
application received after this date will be rejected. The words “Efficiency Bar Examination - Sri Lanka Teacher Educator’s Service 2-II”
should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
08. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the applicants the Commissioner General of Examinations will publish a
newspaper advertisement to that effect. In the event of any applicant not receiving his admission card even 2 or 3 days after t he

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1013
publication of the above advertisement he should promptly inform the Department of Examinations as indicated in the advertiseme nt. It
will be more useful if you forward your request to the Department of Examinations along with a certified copy of the application and the
receipt for payment of fees kept with you and a fax number to send the admission cards when the address is outside Colombo.
09. Complaints from applicants who do not confirm to the requirements of Paragraph No. 08 above will not be entertained.
10. Applicants should submit their admission card with the signature attested to the Supervisor of the  Examination hall on the
date of the examination.
11. It is the responsibility of the applicants to submit evidence to prove their identity at the Examination hall and for this
purpose any one of the following documents will be valid :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the Department of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport.
12. The issue of an admission card to an applicant should not be treated as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the
requirements to appear for the examination.
13. It has been decided to charge examination fees from the applicants who appear for this examination on the following basis :–
(a) No fees will be charged from Applicants appearing for the first time for the whole examination or for part of the
examination ;
(b) Fee for the whole examination Rs. 300.00
Fee for one subject Rs. 100.00
A margin of the receipt obtained for payment of the fee at any Divisional Secretary’s offices in the Island to the credit of
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations should be firmly affixed at the place provided for same in the
application. (Retaining a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant will be useful).
H. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
02nd June, 2011.
APPLICA TION  FORM
E
FFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS II GRADE II OF SRI LANKA TEACHER EDUCA TOR’S SER VICE - 2011
Applications should be forwarded through Head of Institution by registered post to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
(Name of the examination should be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope)
Language medium of the examination : Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Relevant Number to be written in the cage)
01. ( a) Name with initials at end :——————.
(In English Capital Letters) Ex. :-  SILVA, A. B.
(b) Names denoted by initials : ——————.
(In English Capital letters)
02. Date of birth :
Year :                         Month :                   Date :

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1014
03. (i) Designation :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name and address of NCOE/TC/Teacher Centre at which the applicant is serving (Admission  Card will be sent to this
address) :––––––––––––.
04. Private address (In English capital letters) :––––––––––––.
05. Please indicate clearly the subject number and subject appearing as indicated under ( a)  in Para. 2 of the Notice :
Subject No. Subject
06. Whether you have appeared for the complete examination or part of the examination earlier and so indicate the subject, year appeared
and the medium :
Subject Year Medium Index No.
07. Examination fees paid :
Fix the receipt here after paying the examination fees.
Keeping a photocopy with the applicant will be useful.
08. I hereby declare that the above information are true and correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the language medium
indicated in Para. 03 of the Gazette Notification. I will abide by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner General of
Examinations relating to conducting this examination.
—————,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
Forwarded,
I certify that this applicant is eligible to sit  this examination and he/she is qualified to appear in the language medium indicated
under Para. 03 of Gazette Notification.
I also certify that the applicant has paid the prescribed examination fees and that he has fixed the receipt.
———————,
Signature of President NCOE/Head T.C.
———————,
Signature and Designation.
Date :—————
06-367
DEPARTMENT  OF  AYURVEDA
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  SRI  LANKA
AYURVEDIC  MEDICAL  SERVICE – 2011
IT is hereby notify that an Efficiency Bar Examination for Ayurvedic
Medical Service (for Ayurvedic Medical Officers) will be held in
Colombo by the Department of Ayurveda.
01. Candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner of Ayurveda.
02. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appendix to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/herself. Application should be sent by those
who are qualified according to the service minute of the Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service, by the registered post through the
respective heads of the institution to reach the Registrar, Examination
Division, Department of Ayurveda, Nawinna, Maharagama on or
before 01.08.2011. “Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service – 2011” should be indicated at the top
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1015
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not to pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 200 should be affixed for the whole examination for subsequent
sittings and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 per subject should be
affixed if not applying for the whole examination. The stamp should
be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the date.
Under any circumstance the fees will not be refunded or transferred.
03. Identity of the Candidates. – Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registrar of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
04. The Commissioner, Department of Ayurveda will issue the
time table and admission card to all candidates whose applications
have been accepted. Candidates should get their signature on the
admission card attested in advance and submit to the supervisor of
the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not
be permitted to sit for the examination. If a candidate has not
received his/her admission card at least seven days (07) before the
day of examination, he/she should without delay inform the
Registrar, Examination Division, Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna, Maharagama about the non-receipt of admission cards
along with the following information :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of the candidate ;
(iii) Postal Address ;
(iv) Post Office Registration Number and Date of Dispatch.
05. Scheme of examination .– (According to the service minute
of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service) :
(I) Financial Regulation - One paper based on the following :
(i) Financial Regulation of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka - Part I (except Chapter X).
(II) Establishments Code – One paper based on the
following :
(i) Chapters I, II, III, IV , V, VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIII,
XIV, XXIII, XXVII, XXIX, XXX, XXXII of the
V olume I of the Establishments Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ; and
(ii) Chapters XLVII and XLVIII of Part II of the
Establishments Code of Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
(III) Hospital Administration – One paper based on the
following :
(i) General rules and regulations relevant to the
hospitals ;
(ii) Cleanliness in hospitals ;
(iii) Rules and Regulations relevant to the patients ;
(iv) Supply proper meals to the patients ;
(v) Administration of drug manufactures ;
(vi) Rules and regulations regarding the admission of
patients ;
(vii) Knowledge of the duties of all the employees in
the hospitals ;
(viii) General administration in hospitals ;
(ix) General administration of the Department of
Ayurveda ;
(x) Regulations of the stores accounts of the
Department of Ayurveda ;
(xi) Manual of procedure of the Department of
Ayurveda.
(IV) Of ficial Languages - Oral test. Sinhala/Tamil (15
minutes) :
(i) For officers who joined the service in Sinhala medium :
(a) Answering the Tamil questions in Tamil Language.
(b) Translate Tamil sentences to Sinhala Language.
(c) Translate Sinhala sentences to Tamil Language.
(ii) For officers who joined the service in Tamil medium :
(a) Answering the Sinhala questions in Sinhala
Language.
(b) Translate Sinhala sentences to Tamil Language.
(c) Translate Tamil sentences to Sinhala Language.
Note.– Candidates must obtain 40 marks to pass in each subject.
P. S. K. R. W
EERAKOON,
Commissioner of Ayurveda.
Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna,
Maharagama,
27th May, 2011.
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR SRI LANKA
AYURVEDA MEDICAL SERVICE – 2011
Index No. :
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
Sinhala - S, Tamil - T
01. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1016
04. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute
(In English capital letters) :–––––––––––.
07. Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute
(In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
08. (i) Post :–––––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the letter of appointment :––––––––.
09. Subject/s you offer :
Number Subject Subject No.
10. Have you been passed examination in previous sittings, any of
the following subjects, Financial regulations/Establishment
Code/Hospital Management/Oral Examination (Tamil/Sinhala).
If so, index No. and Date :–––––––––––.
11. Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :––––––––
.
If not, value of the stamps affixed :–––––––––––.
Stamp Cage :
Stamp to the value of Rs. 200 for whole
examination and Rs. 50 for each subject
Note.– The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant value and
cancel them by placing their signature and date. Stamps
should not overlap each other.
I declare that the above particulars are true that I am eligible to
appear for the examination in the language medium indicated above.
I also certify that the Rs. ............... stamps affixed here to are
genuine and have not been used before. I agree to abide by the rules
and regulations of this examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of his/
her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to sign
on behalf of such Head of the Department.
A
TTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I do hereby certify that .................. who forward this application
is an officer attach to my office/known to me personally and that
he/she placed his/her signature before me on ..................
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Name of the Attestor :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–335
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATION,  SRI  LANKA/DEPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES
Written Examination for Official Language Proficiency 2011 (September) (Sinhala/Tamil Level – I, II, III)
APPLICATIONS are invited for the following written examination scheduled to be conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri
Lanka and Department of Official Languages relating to the official language proficiency in terms of the Public Administration Circular
Numbers 3/2007 and 7/2007.
Examination Language Level
01. Official Languages Sinhala/Tamil Level III
Proficiency Examination
02. Official Languages Sinhala/Tamil Level II
Proficiency Examination
03. Official Languages Sinhala/Tamil Level I
Proficiency Examination
*Note : Level III is the lower level and level I is the highest level.
Related level to your service should be selected from the above circular.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1017
02. Syllabus relevent to these Written Examinations, Examination Procedure, Speciman Application Form and other relevant
information can be obtained from the website of the Official Languages Department www.languagesdept.gov.lk.
03. Examination centers will be established in each province in the Island for the Written Examination and the list of towns and
town numbers are indicated in Annexture 01. If the number of candidates for any examination center is found to be insufficient such
examination centers will be cancelled and the candidates will be refered to the next examination center according to their second/third choice.
The town/towns which have been applied as examination centers by the candidates will not be allowed to change later.
04. The oral test related to these Written Examinations will be conducted by the Department of Official Languages.
05. Specimen application form should be obtained from the web site above mentioned. Applications duly filled in accordance with
the following instructions should be sent under the registered post before 18th July, 2011 to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, Palawatta, Battaramulla, along with the
recommendation and with the official frank of the Institutions. On top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application should be
marked "Official Language Proficiency Examination 2011 (September)". When the application is prepared the Head Numbers 01 to 09 must
come to the 1st page and the rest to the 2nd page and the relevant particulars should be written by the candidate in his/her ha ndwriting.
Applications which are not in accordance with the Specimen Application and the incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.
It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with you. The candidate should vertify whether the application is in accordance with
the specimen application form indicated in the web site. Application prepared otherwise will be rejected. The name of the exami nation
should be written in both Sinhala and English in Sinhala Application Form as well as in Tamil application forms, it should be written in both
Tamil and English. The language and the level applied by the candidate will not be allowed to change later. This examination will be held in
September, 2011.
06. Applications which are contrary to the instructions or incomplete or sent after the closing date will be rejected.
07. An examination fee will not be charged from the candidates who sit for the examination for the first time. A sum of Rs. 150 will
be charged from other candidates. Examination fees can be paid in any District or Divisional Secretariat in the Island and the receipt obtained
should be pasted firmly in the relevant place of the application form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with you.
Examination fees should be credited to the Revenue Head No. "20.03.99.00- others".
08. Immediately after issuing the admission cards to the candidates, the Department of Examinations will publish a newspaper
advertisement in this regard. Even 2 or 3 days after publishing that advertisement, if the admission cards are not received by the candidates,
it should be informed to the Department of Examinations following the instructions mentioned in the advertisement. The Departme nt of
Examination should be informed by a letter  of request including a certified copy of the recipiet of the registration of the Application. (A fax
number should be given in case the candidate resides out of Colombo).
09. Issuing an admission card to a candidate should not be considered as an acceptance that the candidate has fulfilled required
qualification to sit for the examination.
10. Only National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons or valid passport is accepted in the
examination conducted by the Department of Examinations to prove the identity of the candidates to the Incharge of the Examination hall.
11. Candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations laid down by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the
Written Examination. If such rules and regulations are violated, he or she will have to be subjected to a punishment imposed by  the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
12. The decision regarding the matters not mentioned above, relevant to this written examinations and/or the Commissioner of
Official Language will be final.
13. For further details please contact 011-2889506, 011-2888934, X 220/227.
J. C. R
ANEPURA,
Commissioner of Official Languages.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1018
For office use only
.................................................
WRITTEN EXAMINATION FOR OFFICIAL LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY – 2011 (SEPTEMBER)
SINHALA/TAMIL LEVEL – I, II, III
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATION, SRI LANKA/DEPARTMENT OF OFFICIAL LANGUAGES
* Town and town number where the candidate expect to  sit for
the exam (in order of preference in terms of annexture 01)
Medium applied for
Sinhala  –  2        Tamil – 3 Town Town No.
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
1
Level applied for 2
I Level – 1 3
II Level – 2
III Level – 3
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
1. Last name with initials (in English block capitals) ( E. g.– GAMINI H. W.) :––––––––––––.
2. Names denoted by initials (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
3. Official address (in English block capitals) (Admission card will be sent to this address) :––––––––––––.
4. District :––––––––––––.
5. Sex :
Female – 1  male – 0
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
6. National Identity Card No. :
7. Telephone No.  :
8. Date of Birth : Year :                            Month :                     Date :
9. ( a) Name of your post (write full designation/Name of the designation ) :––––––––––––.
(b) Your post : Public Service – 1
Provincial Public Service – 2
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
10. Certification of the proficiency in the language applied for :
(a) Name of the certificate (if available only) :––––––––––––.
(b) Institute by which certificate was awarded :––––––––––––.
(c) Year of issue :––––––––––––.
11. ( a) Have you sat for the Written Examination for Language Proficiency ?
(If you have to complete a part of the examination, the part you have failed should be mentioned here)
(b) The part you have failed :––––––––––––.
Index No. and date of the above examination :
Index No. :––––––––––––. Exam Date :––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the above particulars are true. I haven't applied for this examination or any other level in respect of this
language and I further declare that I shall abide by any decision of the Commissioner of Official Languages in respect of this examination.
I further declare that I shall abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination and/or Commissioner
of Official Languages in respect of this examination.
Name :––––––––––––.
Signature :––––––––––––.
(Signature should be placed in the presence of the Head of the Institution)

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.06.2011
1019
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE INSTITUTION
I hereby certify that the above applicant is employed in this office and that the particulars in paragraphs 1 to 11 in this application
are true. He/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ......................
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Official Fank :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
If you have paid the examination fees, the receipt should be affixed here
(It is essential that you retain a photocopy of the receipt)
Annex 01
Town and number of towns where the examination centers will be setup.
Province Town Town No.
Colombo 1
Western Province Gampaha 2
Kalutara 3
North Western Province Kurunegala 4
Chilaw 5
Galle 6
Southern Province Matara 7
Tangalle 8
Sabaragamuwa Province Ratnapura 9
Kegalle 10
Uva Province Badulla 11
Moneragala 12
Kandy 13
Central Province Matale 14
Nuwara Eliya 15
North Central Province Anuradhapura 16
Polonnaruwa 17
Jaffna 18
Vavuniya 19
North Province Mullative 20
Kilinochchi 21
Mannar 22
Trincomali 23
Eastern Province Batticaloa 24
Ampara 25
06–368
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.