

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
ECONOMIC  SERVICE  CHARGE  (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  33  OF  2018
 Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 04th of October, 2018]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 05, 2018
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

Economic Service Charge (Amendment)
Act, No. 33 of 2018
1
[Certified on 04th of October, 2018]
L.D.—O. 9/2018
AN  ACT TO AMEND THE ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE
ACT, NO.13 OF 2006
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Economic Service Charge
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of  2018.
2. Section 2 of the Economic Service Charge Act,
No. 13 of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section—
(a) in paragraph ( a) of that subsection by the
substitution for the words “for that relevant
quarter; and”, of the words “for that relevant
quarter;”;
(b) in paragraph ( b) of that subsection—
(i) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (ii)
thereof, for the words “gold or other
precious metal; or”, of the words “gold
or other precious metal;”; and
(ii) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (iii)
thereof, and the substitution therefor of
the following:—
“(iii) on or after April 1, 2017, but prior
to the date of commencement of
Short title.
Amendment of
section 2 of Act,
No. 13 of 2006.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Economic Service Charge (Amendment)
Act, No. 33 of 2018
this Act in respect of every
consignment of imports of motor
vehicles; or”;
(c) by the addition, immediately after
sub-paragraph (iii) thereof, of the following
new sub-paragraph:—
“(iv) on or after the date of commencement
of this Act in respect of every
consignment of imports of motor
vehicles, which are not liable for excise
duty imposed under the Excise (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989; and”;
and
(d) by the addition, immediately after
paragraph (b) thereof, of the following new
paragraph:—
“(c) on or after the date of commencement of
this Act, on the amount of excise duty
imposed under the Excise (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989 in respect
of every consignment of imports of motor
vehicles, which are liable for excise
duty;”.
(2) the proviso to paragraph ( b) of subsection (3) of that
section is hereby amended as follows:—
(a) in paragraph ( a) by the substitution for the
words “turnover of such bank; and”, of the
words “turnover of such bank;”;
(b) in paragraph ( b) by the substitution for the
words “turnover of such person.”, of the words
“turnover of such person; and”; and

<!-- page 4 -->

Economic Service Charge (Amendment)
Act, No. 33 of 2018
3
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Amendment of
Schedule IV of
the principal
enactment.
(c) immediately after paragraph ( b) by the
insertion of the following new paragraph:—
“(c) in the case of Central Bank of Sri Lanka,
unrealized gain from price revaluation
and foreign exchange revalution, shall
be deemed not to form part of the
turnover of Central Bank of Sri Lanka.”.
3. (1) Schedule IV to the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(a) in the item 1 of that Schedule, by the substitution
for the words “partnership of the retail”, of the words
“partnership from the wholesale or retail” ; and
(b) in the item 2 of that Schedule, by the substitution
for the words “partnership from the retail”, of the
words “partnership from the wholesale or retail”.
(2) The amendments made to the principal enactment by
this section, shall be deemed to have come into operation on
April 1, 2017.
4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Economic Service Charge (Amendment)
Act, No. 33 of 2018
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “P RAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.