

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.10.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1990$48 - 2016 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 29 jeks fikiqrdod - 2016'10'29
No.1990/48 -  SATURDAY  OCTOBER  29,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
CENTRAL   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
IN accordance to the Schedule Eight of the 13th Amendment of the Consitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka the powers vested on the Provincial Council as per the Regulations 24 (2) (1) (xii) and 24 (3) of the Route Passenger
Transport Act, No. 04 of 1992 and by the order under Section 20 of the regulations of the Passenger Transport Service
Authority Statute No. 01 of 2000.
I, Ediriweera Weerawardana, Minister of Central Province Road Development, Transport, Power and Energy and
Housing and Construction by the Provincial Council as per the regulations 24 (2) (1) (xii) and 24 (3) of the Route Passenger
Transport Act, No. 04 of 1992 and by the order under Section 20 of the regulations of the Passenger Transport Service
Authority Act, No. 01 of 2000 and on the powers vested on me and in accordance to the Special Gazette Notification
No. 1990/27 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 27th October, 2016 it is hereby ordered as published in this
Gazette that in respect of the new system of Passenger Transport by the order constituted and in addition to the order the
following orders by the Central Province Passenger Transport Service Authority shall be followed.
01. (i) It shoud be declared to recognize a transport Unit either by incorporating one Bus route service or several Bus
routes together within the area of a Bus route from the date of the order of the Minister within a period of
Twelve months by the Central Province Passenger Transport service,
(ii) The appointment of a manager for the administration of the new system of the route Unit as declared,
(iii) To incorporate a Route Administration room for the route unit for one or more as declared.
02. (i) From the date of announcement of the Route Unit by the Central Province Passenger Transport Service or
specially within the period the permit holders of a route or several routes shall provide transportation to such
route or routes as authorized by the permit under the administration under the Manager appointed by the Authority
on behalf of such passenger service of the route and to abide by the advice and time table laid down by the
manager from time to time and to render an efficient bus service accordingly.
(ii) The Permit Holders shall provide suitable passenger transport by rendering and maintaining an efficient service
and to install and use a GSP Equipment to the bus with the facility of installing and using the facilities of a
CCTV camera and the utilization of a post payment card to issue electronic tickets by way of G . R. P. D. Equipment
Technology.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.10.2016
2A
(iii) All income derived daily shall credit all proceeds to the account maintained in the name of the Central Province
Passenger Transport Service opened for this purpose in the Government Bank. From this income the service for
prepaid Cards shall be deducted and the full balance of the income for the bus plying on the same day in
accordance to the proportion of the pre budget shall be deposited to the owner of the bus accordingly.
03. In accordance to the Order No. 01 All route Buses in the Central Province shall abide the regulations set out in
this Gazette from the date of publication,
04. Further it is declared to nominate not more than eight members to render suggestions and ideas for the purpose
of development and improvement of this service and to incorporate a transport unit or several units for the
management an advisory committee to be nominated this committee shall provide Advice services to increase
the income, distribution of income, Salaries to Employees and a method to secure their social security and bus
maintenance thereof,
05. All service administration and the power of the comfortability of passengers and the introduction of new service
shall be sole vested with the Central Province Passenger Transport Service,
06. (i) The Central Province Passenger Transport Service shall announce the auditors to a declared transport Unit for the
purpose of accounting the financial and technical auditing.
(ii) To keep the Audit reports open for inspection at all times to all permit holders of a transport unit or to each and
every Route or the Central Province Passenger Transport Service shall provide such facilities.
(iii) Further the said Auditor shall forward to the Provincial Council through the relevant the yearly Audit.
E
DIRIWEERA WEERAW ARDENA,
Minister of Road Development, Transport,
Power and Energy and Housing and Construction,
Central Province.
On this 28th day of October, 2016,
Kandy,
At the Central Provincial Road Development,
Transport, Power and Energy and Housing and Construction Minister's Office.
11-683
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.