

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'27
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 27.08.2021
N. B.–   (i) Part III of the Gazette No. 2,222 of 01.04.2021 was not published.
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
    PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...   —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... — 
By-Laws ... 952
Posts - Vacant ...    —
                                                                                                         P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.  ...                ––
Notices calling for Tenders   ...  ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
     
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th September, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd September, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2021
951 - B 82264- 5,403 (08/2021)
wxl 2"243 - 2021 wf.daia;= ui 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'08'27
No. 2,243 - FRIDAY  AUGUST 27, 2021


<!-- page 2 -->

952  IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'27
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 27.08.2021
1. This by law has been compiled by virtue of powers vested in the Municipal Coucil under Sub-Section 
272 (15) to be read with Section 267(1) of Municipal Council Ordinance.
2. The content of this By-Law is, regularizing, monitoring and levying fees and controlling of unpleasant, 
dangerous, unpleasant and dangerous businesses by protecting comfortably living standards, 
convenience and welfare and all the facilities of the people within the area of authority.
3. This by law is cited as the by law on regularizing offensive, dangerous and offensive and dangerous 
businesses within the area of authority of Municipal Council Kurunegala.
4. Any person who wishes to carry on any offensive or dangerous or an offensive and dangerous 
business, the person shall obtain a valid license which is issued by the Municipal Commissioner for 
the maintenance of offensive, dangerous and offensive and dangerous businesses. which has been 
passed by an adoption of resolution by the Municipal Council and properly published in the gazette 
paper.
5.  In case a license is applied for the maintenance of any offensive, dangerous and offensive  and   
dangerous business  within  the  area  of  authority  of  Municipal Council, the building or premises 
expected to be used for the maintenance of an offensive and dangerous and offensive and dangerous 
business, shall be in conformity with the following conditions :
 i.  It shall be a. risk -free and harm - free, strong building with adequate space to accommodate the 
desired number of customers constructed in accordance with a plan approved by the Planning 
Committee of Municipal Council in conformity withthe laws in force at the time.
By-Laws
By law on regularizing offensive, dangerous and offensive and dangerous business within the area of 
authority of Municipal Council Kurunegala
Municipal Council Kurunegala
BY virtue of powers vested in the Municipal Council under Sub-Section 272 (15) of Municipal Council Ordinance to be read 
with Sub-Section (1) of Section 267 of the said Municipal Council Ordinance No. 16 of 1947 Chapter 252, I, Raja Kollure, 
the Hon. Governor in the North Western Provincial Council, do hereby notify that I have approved the by law on regularizing 
offensive, dangerous and offensive and dangerous business within the area of authority of Municipal Council Kurunegala, 
given in the following schedule, which has been made and adopted by the resolution No. GC-6(19)-2020.07.16 at the 
General Council held on 16.07.2020 in terms of Sub-Section (1) of Chapter 268 of aforesaid Municipal Council Ordinance 
to be read with Section 2 of Provincial Council (Incidental) Act, No. 12 of 1989.
 R
AJA COLLURE,
 Hon. Governor in the North Western Province.
10th June 2021,
Kurunegala.
BY -  LAW ON REGULARIZING OFENSIVE, DANGEROUS AND OFFENSIVE AND DANGEROUS 
BUSINESSES$ WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF MUNICIPALCOUNCIL KURUNEGALA
 Legal provisions 
for compilation 
of the by law.
Subject and 
Objectives.
Name of the By 
Law.
Task to be 
performed.
 
 

<!-- page 3 -->

953 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'27
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 27.08.2021
 ii. Every part of the walls of every room must be not less than 2.14 meters in height and must be 
built with suitable material and the internal surface of the walls must be plastered in cement 
and polished or tiled at least 2 meters high from the ﬂ oor level and it is sufﬁ cient if the rest of 
he internal   surface   is   lime    washed,    in conformity with the laws in force at the time.
 iii. The whole premise should be provided with a drainage system in conformity with the standards 
stipulated from time to time by the Municipal Council.
 iv. The premises must be provided with sanitary garbage bins in conformity with the Solid Waste 
Collection Program of the Municipal Council so as to facilitate the waste segregation process 
from the outset and sufﬁ cient latrine facilities shail have been provided to the premises as per 
the standards stipulated by the Municipal Council from time to time.
 v. A  ﬁ reﬁ ghting equipment or ﬁ re extinguisher system shall be provided in conformity with the 
standards recommended Municipal Council.
 vi. 
The recommendation of the Medical Health Ofﬁ cer shall be obtained to the effect that the  
above conditions have been fulﬁ lled.
6.  Every licence shall fulﬁ ll the following requirements :
 i. Every license holder shall store all materials required.-for carrying on the business, in such a 
way as to prevent causing any efﬂ uvia or any other nuisance.
 ii. In case. the materials which are likely to cause any nuisance or efﬂ uvia are transported along a 
public place or a thoroughfare; every license holder shall cause them to be carried in covered 
and impermeable receptacles so as to prevent causing any nuisance.
 iii. Every license holder shall cause any offensive vapors or gases emitted during any prpcess of 
manufacture, to be discharged into external air, in such a manner and at such height so as to 
spread out their diffusion without causing harmful or offensive effects or shall be passed directly 
through ﬁ re or a condensing apparatus as per the recommendation of the Chief Medical Ofﬁ cer 
of the Municipal Council
 iv. Every license holder shall provide adequate drainage system for the premises in which the business 
is carried on and to keep it clean. Further, the said drainage system and the ﬂ oor of the premise 
where the business is carried on shall cause to maintain well and to keep it clean properly.
 v.  Every license holder shall cause the walls of the premises where the business is carried on to 
be maintained in proper condition so as to prevent from absorbing waste materials and to paint 
them annually.
 vi. E  very license holder shall cause all including gears and vessels used to business to be kept clean 
and to be clean daily.
 vii. Every license holder shall cause all garbage; together with waste and by-products swept and 
residuals of scraping to be removed daily from the premises in covered receptacles, unless they 
are used forthwith for further business processes in such premises.
 viii. Every license holder shall cause the water used for the business activities to be disposed 
systematically in accordance with laws in force at the time..

<!-- page 4 -->

954  IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'27
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 27.08.2021
7. The business license should be displayed at readable size ·by the public and customers those who visit 
the · licensed premises.
8. Every licensee shall be responsible for supplying safety clothing gears and tools relevant to the 
nature of his/her business to his/her employees and shall ensure that the employees are wearing these 
materials.
9.   No person shall carry on any offensive or dangerous or an offensive and dangerous business within the 
area of authority  of   Municipal   Council  unless  he/she  is  the· ho!der  of a  valid  license  issued  in  
that  behalf  by  the Municipal Commissioner.
10. No    license  holder  shall pollute  or  contaminate  any river, stream, canal, sluice, well, tank, channel, 
or any open  stretch  of  water  by  discharging  thereunto,  or causing  to  ﬂ ow  thereunto,  any  foul,  
ill-smelling  or offensive,  water  or  other  ﬂ uid  or  by  washing  any offensive  substance  or  in  any  
other  way  pollute  or contaminate such river, stream, canal, sluice, well, tank, channel, or open stretch 
of water.
11. In addition to the business speciﬁ ed in the license issued under the provisions of this by-law, no other 
business shall be carried on without obtaining a separate license for the relevant business from the 
Municipal Council.
12. No person shall be permitted to be employed if the person is suffering from a. contagious or infections 
disease or was recently attending to a person who was suffering from a contagious or infections disease 
during the incubation period.
13. ln addition to the businesses set out in the ﬁ rst, second and third schedules, it shall be the duty of 
Municipal Council  to publish businesses identi ﬁ ed from time to time by determining under the 
categories of Offensive, Dangerous,  Offensive  and  Dangerous  in  the  gazette paper on adoption of 
resolution.
14. ln case of any violation of a Section of these by laws, the time which is informed to rectify such 
violation may be extended by the Municipal Commissioner upon a reasonable written request made 
by the licensee. The period of such extension shall not exceed 14 days.
15. By virtue of powers vested in the Municipal Council Section 247 (a) of Municipal Council Ordinance 
the Municipal Council has the power to levy a fee in respect of any license issued by the Municipal 
Council authorizing certain premises or place to be used for carrying on the businesses set out in these 
by laws which have been compiled under Municipal Council Ordinance, and the said fee shall not 
exceed the maximum set out in Section 247.
16. Every license issued under these By-Laws shall be valid until 31 December of the year in which they 
are issued, unless they are cancelled before expiry under the provisions of these By-Laws.
17. The ofﬁ cer who inspects and supervises the execution of the provisions relevant to these by laws shall 
be an ofﬁ cer authorized by the Municipal Commissioner.
18. Inquiry procedure and inquiry methodology and supervision of operation shall be decided from time 
to time by the Municipal Council and f;icilities required for that purposes shall be provided by the 
licensee.
19. In case of a breach or violation of a by law or by laws, any citizen or customer could report or complain 
in writing or orally to the Mayor or relevant authorized of ﬁ cers at any time. All such complains shall 
be inquired by the relevant ofﬁ cers and it shall be reported to the plaintiff during 14 days.
Tasks not to 
be done.
Role of the 
Municipal 
Council.
Discretion, 
waive, 
exemption.
Charges  and 
fees.
Valid Period 
of License.
lnspection,
Supervision 
procedure 
and authority  
 
 

<!-- page 5 -->

955 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'27
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 27.08.2021
20. Breach or violation of any provision or more or all provisions speciﬁ ed in these by laws shall constitute 
an offence.
21. Any person who violates the orders in these by laws shall be guilty of an offence and being convicted 
by a court of law of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to a ﬁ ne set out in Sub Section 267 (3) of 
Municipal Council Ordinance, and in case any person subjected to such a ﬁ ne continues to further 
repeat of such breach or violation after being convicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction shall 
be liable to an additional ﬁ ne setout in the aforesaid Sub Section.
22. In these by-laws unless the context requires otherwise “Authorized Of ﬁ cer’’ means and any ofﬁ cer 
authorized for particular purposes in writing by the Municipal Council or the Mayor and I or the 
Municipal Commissioner,
“Mayor’’ means the Mayor of Municipal Council, Kurunegala,
“License Holder’ means any person who has been issued a license under these by- laws and a person 
who has a guardian or a manager for in such a premises or a person who deploys an employee to 
manage such premises appropriately,
“Licensed .Premises” means the premises for which license is issued under· the provisions of by-laws 
speciﬁ ed herein,
“Public Place” means any road, thoroughfare; street, lane, pavement, public sports ground, road 
reservation, sports ground, public building, public cemetery, bus stand, railway station, river, canal, 
stream, tank, pond, water course, rain water drain, any land belongs to the Institute, any block of land 
reserved for public utility or any other public place utilized by public,
“Municipal Medical Health Of ﬁ cer” means the Chief Medical · Health Of ﬁ cer in the Municipal 
Council . Kurunegala,
“Municipal Council” means Municipal Council, Kurunegala,
“Area of authority of Municipal Council” means the area of authority of Municipal Council, 
Kurunegala.
“Planning Committee” means Planning Committee of Municipal Council, Kurunegala,
“Suitable materials” means Bricks, Kabok, Mattel, Cement blocks, Concrete.
S
CHEDULE
Sche dule I -Offensive Businesses
 1. Purifying or storing graphite
 2. Manufacture or storing manure or chemical manure for sale
 3. Curing leather
 4. Storing leather for sale
 5. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)
 6. Manufacture of Maldives ﬁ sh
 7. Manufacture of rubber and Storing rubber sheets
 8. Running a veterinary hospital
 9. Storing perishable food and food stuff for whole sale
 10.  Storing dried ﬁ sh, salted ﬁ sh or Jadi more than 150 kgs
Violation of the 
Constitution.
Fines and 
Penalties.
Interpret ation 
and Deﬁ nition. 
 
  

<!-- page 6 -->

956  IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'27
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 27.08.2021
 11. Making Jadi from meat or ﬁ sh, drying and icing
 12. Manufacture of coconut coal or timber coal
 13. Drying tobacco
 14. Manufacture of animal food
 15. Manufacture of Punnac
 16. Fermentation of animal meat or  animal blood 
 17. Manufacture of soap
 18.  Grinding and storing of animal bones
 19. Making trunk boxes
 20. Storing new or old metal
 21. Storing metal  scrapes
 22. Manufacture of furniture
 23. Manufacture of cane products
 24. Running a carpenter factory
 25. Manufacture of syrups ro fruit juices
 26. Manufacture of sweets
 27. Soaking coconut husks
 28. Manufacture of brushes (other than tooth brushes)
 29. Manufacturing tooth brushes 
 30  Collecting toddy
 31.  Manufacture of vinegar
 32. Sawing timber.
 33. Manufacture of paints, varnish or distemper
 34. Manufacture of soda
 35. Dying ﬁ ber
 36. Manufacture of leather products
 37. Tinning fruits, ﬁ sh or other product
 38. Grinding coffee, and grains
 39. Manufacture of baking powder
 40. Manufac  ture of gas mantel
 41. Manufacture of potty
 42. Manufacture of candles
 43. Manufacture of camphor
 44. Manufacture of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink 
 45. Manufacture of washing blue
 46. Manufacture of sealing wax
 47. Manufacture of perfumes
 48. Manufacture of school chalk
 49. Manufacture oftires or tubes
 50. Retreading tires
 51. Vulcanizing tires or tubes  
 52. Manufacture of cement
 53. Manufacture of cement products or asbestos
 54. Manufacture of sand paper
 55. Manufacture of plastic ware
 56. Kilning bricks
 57. Mechanized weaving of textiles
 58. Manufacture of acids and re ﬁ ll
 59. Manufacture of roo ﬁ ng tiles
 60. Cleaning and selling gunny bags contained manure, lime powder or other products
 61. Manufacture of mechanized cement blocks

<!-- page 7 -->

957 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'27
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 27.08.2021
SC HEDULE II - DANGEROUS BUSINESSES
 1. Blasting or mining Mattel  
 2. Manufacture of vegetable Oil
 3. Manufacture of coconut Oil
 4. Manufacture or storing matches
 5. Manufacture of methylated sprits
 6. Manufacture of tea boxes
 7. Manufacture of coir or other products
 8. Manufacture coir or other products ·
 9. Storing straw
 10. Storing used garments
 11. Manufacture and repair of jewellries
 12. Mechanized timber sawing
 13. Mining lime or quartz
 14. Running a smithy by using machines
 15. Storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles
 16. Repair of bicycles and motor bicycles
 17. Storing used papers and newspapers
 18. Spray printing
 19. Storing ﬁ reworks or crackers 
 20. Manufacture of metal products (machineries, tools)
SCHEDULE  111- OFFENSIVE AND DANGEROUS BUSINESSES
 1. Purifying mica
 2. Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom or other spice by using chemicals
 3. Dry cleaning or dying
 4. Fabric printing, dying or bathik
 5. Electroplating.
 6. Manufacture of oil or animal fat
 7. Kilning lime or ,quartz
 8. Manufacture of ﬁ reworks or crackers
 9. Processing cod-liver oil
 10. Making boats
 11. Recharging or repair of batteries
 12. Welding metals
 13. Repair of motor vehicles
 14. Servicing motor vehicles
 15. Scraping metal by machines
 16. Running a casting shed
 17. Making bodies for motor vehicles
 18. Manufacture or re ﬁ ll of pesticides, fungicides, weedicide and insecticides
 19. Manufacture of disinfectors
 20. Manufacture of mosquito coils
08-432
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.