

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2011
111
111
wxl 1"691 - 2011 ckjdß ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'01'28
No. 1,691 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 28, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 113
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd February, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st
January, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,690 of 21.01.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2011
112
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2011
113
Posts – Vacant
DEPARTMENT  OF  HEALTH  SERVICES
Recruitment to the Post of Speech Therapist
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka with
following qualifications for the post of Speech Therapist in hospitals
under the control of the Ministry of Health. Applications prepared
as per format attached to this letter should be sent under registered
cover to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Health, "Suwasiripaya"
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo
10 on or before 15.03.2011. The words "Post of Speech Therapist"
should be written on the left hand corner of the nevelope enclosing
applications.
02. Salary scale. – Rs. 15,260 - 6 x 180 - 4 x 240 - 11 x 320 -
20 x 360 - Rs. 28,020 (MT-5-06-2006 IV).
03. Age limit.– Should be not less than 18 and not more than 45
years of age (The maximum age limit will not apply for those who
are already in the service).
04. Educational qualifications. – Full time 02 years Diploma
Certificate from a recognized university on speech therapy.
05. Terms of engagement :
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable, should contribute
to the Widow's/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Fund.
(ii) Should pass proficiency of the other official language in
addition to the Official language in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 07/2007 of 08.05.2007 within
05 years joining the service.
06. Method of recruitment.– Applicants who secure highest marks
will be selected through conducting a competitive examination. The
examination is due to be conducted by the Director General of
Health Services and the examination includes following subjects.
General knowledge - 100 marks
Aptitude test - 100 marks
07. Applicants those who are already in the service should
forward their applications thorugh the relevant Head of Institutions.
08. Examination fees. – Every applicant should pay an
examination fee of Rs. 250 by a money order drawn in favour of the
Secretary Ministry of Health "Suwasiripaya" No. 385, Ven
Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 and
encashable from the General Post Office Colombo. The Money
order should be sent attached to the application and the examination
fees paid will not be refunded under any circumstances.
09. The applications and other relevant documents should be
addressed to the Secretary Health and not personally to any other
person in the Ministry.
10. The applications received after the specified date will be
rejected and applications will not be acknowledged. The applications
which are not conform in every manner to the requirements of this
advertisement will be rejected.
11. The applicants who have fulfilled above educational
qualifications and secured highest marks in the competitive
examination will be called for the interview and they shold produce
the originals of the documents they are required to be produced at
the interview. The candidature of candidates who fail to produce
originals of documents at the interview will be cancelled.
12. All particulars relevant to educational and other qualifications
should be filled correctly with due consideration and if the
certificates produced above were proved false after appointment,
action will to taken to cancel the appointment and dismiss from the
service and also to blacklist his/her name which prevent him/her
from re enterting the Public Service.
13. All the Officers so recruited are subject to the rules and
regulations of the Public Service Commission provisions of the
Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka policies formulated by the Department of Health Financial
and other regulations and rules and regulations introduced by the
government from time to time.
14. Any problematic condition arised out of any matter not
covered by the gazette notifications relevant to this recruitment,
the decision of the Secretary Health will be the final.
Dr. R
AVINDRA RUBERU,
Secretary.
Ministry of Health "Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
10th January, 2011.
SPECIMEN FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF
SPEECH THERAPIST IN THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
01. 1.1 Name with initial (in English block capitals) Mr./Mrs./Miss
:–––––––––.
1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
02. 2.1 Address (Private) (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
2.2 Address (Private) (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
2.3 Address (Official) (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
2.4 Address (Official) (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
(Officers employed in the Public Service/Provincial Public
Service/Corporation should write there official addresses.
Any change in the address should be brought to the notice
immediately)

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2011
114
03. 3.1 Date of birth :
Y ear Month Date
3.2 Age as at closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
04. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––.
05. Male/Female :–––––––––.
06. Education qualifications :–––––––––.
07. Experience :
Station serviced :––––––––.    Period of service :–––––––––.
08. Date of the receipt :–––––––––.
Paying examination fees :–––––––––.
(i) Office from which examinations fees are paid :–––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––.
(iii)Amount paid :–––––––––.
Please affix the receipt here firmly.
I do hereby certainly that the particulars furnished by me in the
application are true and correct. Also I am aware that any information
found incorrect in this application would result in disqualifying me
to the post and dismissal from the post without payment of any
comperesation if it is after reruitment to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Designation :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
01–649
–––––––––––––––
GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  KOTELAWALA  DEFENCE
UNIVERSITY
Undergraduate Cadetships (Male/Female)
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified Sri Lankans
for Undergraduate Cadetships (Male and Female) in the General Sir
John Kotelawala Defence University from 02nd January, 2011 to
02nd February, 2011.
2. The General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University is
empowered to award degrees by the General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments
thereto, to those who have successfully completed the Academic
and Military components of studies pertaining to the Degree
programmes.
3. The degree programmes applicable to these cadets will be of
five year duration for Medical Stream, four and half year duration
for Engineering Stream, four year duration for Law Stream and
three year duration for Management and Technical Sciences, Logistic
Management and Social Sciences Streams.
3.1 The allocation of Cadets for three services will be based
on the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews,
conducted for selection and the availability of vacancies
in each service. Cadets will be commissioned in the regular
forces of Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force, after
successful completion of the Degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the academic and military
training components of the Degree programmes, the
Officer Cadets will be awarded Bachelor of Medicine and
Surgery (MBBS), Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) in the
disciplines of Engineering, Management and Technical
Sciences, Logistic Management, Social Sciences or
Bachelor of Laws as applicable.
3.3 All degree programmes are conducted in the medium of
English.
3.4 Selected candidates will have to be followed one of the
following Bachelors Degree Programmes.
(a) Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBBS) - Five
years course (Male only)
For those who have followed Bio Science Stream
(Biology, Chemistry and Physics) at the G . C. E.
(A/L) examination in 2010 and passed three (3)
subjects.
(b) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) Engineering in Civil/
Mechanical/Electrical and Electronic, Marine and
Aeronautical - four and half year course (Male
only).
For those who have followed Maths Stream
(Chemistry, Physics, Combined Mathematics) at
the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination and passed three
(03) subjects.
(c) Bachelor of Laws (LLB) - Four year course (Male
and Female) :
For those who have passed three (3) of the
following subject at the G . C. E. (A/L) examination.
Accountancy Political Science Agricultural Science
Geography Biology Advanced Mathematics
Business Statistics History Business Studies
Chemistry Physics Economics
Sinhala/Tamil English
Logic and Scientific Method
Mathematics/Combined Mathematics
(d) Bachelor of Scinece (B. Sc.) - Management and
Technical Sciences - Three year course (Male only)
For those who have followed Bio Science (with
Physics or Mathematics as subject) or Maths

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2011
115
Streams at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination and
passed three (03) subjects.
(e) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) Logistic Management
- Three year course (Male and Female)
For those who have followed Commerce Stream at
the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination and passed three
(3) of the following subjects :
Accountancy Business Studies
Geography Logic and Scientific method
Economics Communication and Media Studies
Business Statistics General Information Technology
(f) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) Social Science - Three
Year course (Male and Female)
For those who have passed three (3) subjects
including at least two (2) of the following subjects
at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Geography Business Statistics
Economics Logic and Scientific Methods
History Communication and Media Studies
English General Information Technology
Mathematics Political Science
Business Studies
3.5 Selected candidates are required to be followed a range
of common and special subjects pertaining to respective
Degree Programmes, including English, Management,
Law, International Studies and Military subjects.
3.6 They are also required to undergo continuous training
in Physical Development, Drill, Weapon Training and
Leadership, during their Degree Programmes.
4. Eligibility requirements.– Candidates should :
(a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of
age on 02nd February, 2011 ;
(c) Become eligible to apply for University admission and
have fulfilled the following requirements :
(i) Passed the common General Test ;
(ii) Have a minimum of a credit (C) pass for the subject
of English Language at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination.
(d) Satisfy the following minimum physical standards :
Height Male Female
Army : 5'5" Army : 5'3"
Air Force : 5'6" Air Force : 5'4"
Navy : 5'6"
Weight : 50Kgs
Chest : 32" (unexpanded).
Note.– (If a candidate possesses outstanding achievements in
sports or other relevant fields, the above physical
standards may be relexed by the Secretary, Ministry of
Defence and Chairman of the Board of Management,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University).
(e) Confirm to the required medical standards.– Successful
candidates are required to pass a medical test to the
satisfaction of the Secretary, Ministry of Defence and
Chairman of the Board of Management, General Sir
John Kotelawala Defence University.
(f) Be unmarried (No Cadet Officer will be permitted to
marry whilst under training and until permitted to do so
by service regulations.)
5. Conditions of service.– Selected candidates will be enlisted as
Officer Cadets of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University. They will be subjected to laws, regulations and orders
under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy Act, No.
68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto.
6. At the time of enlistment selected candidates will have to
enter into a Bond and agreement with the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory period as applicable,
after being graduated in the respective degree programmes.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid pay and allowance of approximately
Rs. 24,000 per month. In addition to that, the following facilities
are also available free of charge for officer cadets :
(i) Board and lodging
(ii) Medical facilities
(iii) Uniforms
(iv) Batmen facilities
(v) Sports and recreational facilities.
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka
Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be paid, the pay and allowances
appropriate to the rank in acoordance with the service pay codes :
(a) The salary scales assigned to Officers up to the rank of
Lieutenant Colonel/Commander/Wing Commander are
as follows :
2/Lt/Pilot Officer - Rs. 211,800 per annum
Actg. Sub. Lt. - Rs. 189,240 per annum
Lieutenant - Rs. 275,220 - 30 x7,740 - Rs. 507,420 per
annum
Sub Lieutenant - Rs. 275,220 - 30 x 7,740 - Rs. 507,420
per annum
Flying officer - Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
per annum
Captain/Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 24x 7,740 -
Rs. 507,420 per annum
Flt. Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
per annum

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2011
116
Major - Rs. 368,100 - 22 x7,740 - Rs. 538,380 per
annum
Lieutenant Commander - Rs. 352,620 - 20 x 7,740 -
Rs. 507,420 per annum
Sqn. Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 per
annum
Lt. Colonel - Rs. 390,540 - 17 x 9,480 - Rs. 551,700 per
annum
Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 15 x 9,480 - Rs. 504,300
per annum
Wing Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 -
Rs. 551,700 per annum.
(b)  The following allowances are payable monthly :
(i) qualification allowance ;
(ii) ration allowance ;
(iii) dist urbance allowance when ordered to live in (for
married officers only) ;
(iv) uniform up keep allowance.
(c) The following facilities are available/allowances payable :
(i) accommodation when ordered to live in
(ii) rent allowance
(iii) uniform allowance
(iv) batmen allowance
(v) one return duty warrant a month from place of work
to home station to those who are ordered to “live
in”.
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed by the
following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and
conditions of service :
(i) The Army/Navy/Air Force pay code ;
(ii) Current regulations for officers of the Army/Navy/Air
Force published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
(iii) Current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuity
Code published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to
undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Vice Chancellor,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University and or respective
Service Commanders.
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for
training to any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
12. Officer Cadets under training will be required to live in, in
accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by the
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University or by the
respective Service establishments.
13. Language requirements.– Selected candidates will be required
to comply with any rules and regulations already made or that may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Prooff of Identity.– Candidates will be required to produce
proof as to their identity. Identity cards issued by the Department
of Registration of persons or Post Master-General and driving
licenses issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accepted
for this purpose.
15. Applications.– Application form and the brochure can be
down loaded from the unviersity website www.kdu.ac.lk.
16. Duly completed applications should accompany a receipt
obtained by paying Rs. 600 (Six Hundred Rupees) to any branch of
Bank of Ceylon in favour of “The Vice Chancellor, General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University” to be credited to current Account
Number “9405831” of Bank of Ceylon Idama Branch - Moratuwa.
The applications without basic qualifications and the applications
are not duly filled and not in accordance with the conditions of this
information will be rejected. The application fee will not be refunded.
17. The duly completed applications should be forwarded to
the “Registrar, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University,
Ratmalana” under registered cover to reach him on or before 02nd
February, 2011.
“Application for Cadetships” and the stream applied for should
be marked on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. Applications
received after the closing date or do not conform to the requirements
of this notification will be rejected.
18. Applications should be send with certified copies of
certificates of Registration of Birth, certified copies of the G . C. E.
(O/L), G. C. E. (A/L) result sheets and the certification of qualified
for University admission (yes).
19. Preliminary selection will be made from among those
candidates who have achieved the required standards in accordance
with the evaluation criterion determined by the Selection Committee
appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University. Candidates who are selected from
the first interview will be required to undergo tests as may be
prescribed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence Unviersity. The final selection will be made by
the Final Selection Committee apointed by the Board of
Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
20. Candidates who get selected for interviews and tests will be
informed in writing of the venues, times and the dates of such
interviews, No traveling or other expenses will be paid for this
purpose to applicants.
21. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving him a testimonial. Any form of canvassing would be a
disqualification.
22. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. No
correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with regard to rejected
applications.
G
OTABAY A NANDASENA RAJAPAKSA RWP, RSp psc.,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence and Chairman of the
Board of Management
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2011
117
For Office use
GENERAL SIR JOHN KOTELAWALA DEFENCE UNIVERSITY
APPLICATION FOR UNDERGRADUATE CADETSHIPS
NIC No. :
Interested Stream
MBBS Engineering Mgt. and TS Law Logistics Mgt. Social  Sciences
(As per the qualifications, it can be marked three preferences by 1, 2 and 3 in the appropriate cage)
01. Name (In block letters) :
(a) Full name :
(b) Name with initials : Mr./Miss :
02. ( a) Permanent address :
(b) Tele. : Res. No. : Mobile No. :
03. Date of Birth :   Year        Month  Date 04.  Age : as at 02.02.2011 :   Years      Months  Days
05. Civil status :     Married    Single 06. Sex : Male Female
07. Sri Lanka citizenship : By Descent By Registration
08. Educational qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. (O/L) Examination : ( b) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Name of the School :––––––––––. Name of the School :––––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ................  ................ 1.  ................  ................
2.  ................  ................ 2.  ................  ................
3.  ................  ................ 3.  ................  ................
4.  ................  ................ 4. English  ................
5.  ................  ................ Common General Test Mark
6.  ................  ................
7.  ................  ................
8.  ................  ................ Whether you have been qualified for university
9. ................  ................
Maximum Grade obtained for English Language at the Admission : Y es No
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Index No. : Y ear : Z score :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2011
118
09. Games represented : 10. Extra curricular activities :
**** (a) Cadeting
SL ZL NL INL (b)  Scouting
(a) athletics ( c) Prefect
(b) badminton ( d) School Captain
(c) Basketball ( e) House Captain
(d) Cricket ( f) Band
(e) Hockey ( g) Societies
(f) Rugby ( h) First Aid
(g) Soccer ( i)
(h) Swimming ( j)
(i) Table tennis
(j) Tennis
(k) V olleyball 11. Physical Requirements :
(l) Wrestling
(m) Karate
(n) Judo
(o) Boxing
(p) Squash
(q)
(r)
* SL - School Level * ZL - Zonal Level
* NL - National Level * INL - International Level
12. Any other relevant facts :–––––––––––.
(Please attach a separate sheet if necessary)
13. Details of two non related referees :
(i)
Name Designation Address T elephone No.
(ii)
Name Designation Address T elephone No.
14. Please pay Rs. 600 (Rupees Six Hundred) to any Bank of Ceylon branch in favour of “Vice Chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence University” to be credited to current Account No. “9405831” of Bank of Ceylon “Idama Branch” Moratuwa and submit
following details. (Original receipt should be attached hereto).
(i) Date of payment :–––––––––––.
(ii) BOC branch of payment :–––––––––––.
15. I declare in honour that the information given above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I am aware that if a
ny
information given in the application are found to be incorrect, prior to my selection. I am liable to be disqualified and if it is found after
the selection I am liable to be dismissed without any compensation.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
01–644
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Height Weight Eye Vision Chest
Ft. Inches Lbs Right Left If specses use Inches