

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'10'22
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.10.2019
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G31312 – 12 (10/2019)
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 2146$18 – 2019 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 22 jeks wÕyrejdod – 2019'10'22
No. 2146/18 – TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2019
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PILGRIMAGES  ORDINANCE
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Internal & Home Affairs and Provincial Councils & Local Government in terms of
section 2 of Pilgrimages Ordinance. (Chap. 175)
WAJIRA ABEYWARDHANA,
Internal & Home Affairs and Provincial Councils and
Local Government
Ministry of Internal and Home Affairs and Provincial Councils and Local Government,
Nila Medura Building,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
04th October, 2019.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the regulation of Duruthu Maha Perahera Festival of Sri Maha Vihara Temple,
in the Grama Niladari’s Division of No. 152, Pilana Divisional Secretary’s Division of Akmeemana, Galle District.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'10'22
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.10.2019
2. In these regulations :
“Camp area” means the area described in the schedule.
“District Secretary/ Government Agent” means the Government Agent of Galle administrative district and it
also includes any officer authorized by him in terms of regulation 4.
“Medical Officer” means the Medical officer of health in charge of the camp area.
‘Pilgrim” means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose.
“Police Officer” includes any Grama Niladhari in charge of the camp area.
“Public Health Inspector” means the public health inspector in charge of the camp area.
3. These regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages made on account of the Duruthu Maha Perahera Festival of
Sri Maha Vihara Temple, in the Grama Niladari’s Division of No. 152, Pilana Divisional Secretary’s Division of
Akmeemana, Galle District.
4. The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to authorize any public officer in writing to
exercise any power vested in him and carry out any function assigned to him under this regulation.
5. i. The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to regulate vehicular traffic or walking to
or from or within the camp area.
ii. No person shall act contrary to any lawful order given by any police officer in compliance with the
instructions issued to such police officer by the District Secretary/ Government Agent for the exercise of
powers vested in him under the Para (1) of this regulation.
6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the camp area without the written permission of the
District Secretary/ Government Agent. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance where carts are
brought and cattle are driven to a place reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under regulation 7.
7. (1) The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to reserve or provide the following places
inside the camp area.
(a) Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles.
(b) Places for leaving carts and cattle.
(c) Separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrims.
(d) Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick.
(e) Places for begging and solicitation for charity.
(f) Places for displaying certain items for sale.
(g) Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposes.
(h) Places for the use of pilgrims for washing and bathing.
(i) Tanks, wells, water, holes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking water and other places
providing such facilities.
(j) Places for other purposes the District Secretary/ Government Agent may deem necessary.
(2) If the District Secretary/ Government Agent deems necessary and in case of any place is reserved or
provided for certain purpose under Para (I) by him, action shall be taken to erecting a notice or name board
stating the purpose for which the place is reserved.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'10'22
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.10.2019
3A
(3) (I) In case of any place is reserved or provided for certain purpose under Para (I), that place shall strictly
be used for such purpose and no one shall use any other place within the camp area for such purpose.
8. If the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Officer is of the view that it is required to add chlorine
to any tank, wells, water holes or reservoir situated in the camp area or it is required to be closed for prevention
of diseases, the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Officer shall have the power to do so.
9. (1) No one shall build any hut or temporary or permanent construction or any other construction or make a
new addition to existing building or any other construction for any purpose in any place within the camp
area, reserved or provided for certain purpose under regulation 7, except on a permit issued by the District
Secretary/ Government Agent for the relevant purpose and in accordance with the conditions stipulated in
such permit.
(2) If  any person builds any hut or temporary or permanent building or any other construction or make a new
addition to existing building or construction contrary to the Para (I) of this regulation, subsequent to
delivery of a written notice to that person, it is lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to order
to remove or demolish such hut or building or construction within the period of time given in the notice as
the case may be.
(3) Where any person who has been delivered a notice under Para (2) of this regulation, neglects to act in
compliance with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the period stated there in or where a
doubt arises as to who is the actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered, it is lawful for the
District Secretary/ Government Agent to cause action to be taken to remove or demolish such hut building,
construction or a new addition made to the existing building or construction as the case may be. It is also
lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to make arrangements to enter to any land or premises
together with labourers equipment.
10. No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory with a notice or sign stating that it is reserved for
the use of pilgrims.
11. No one shall contaminate any tank, wells, water holes, reservoir, canal stream or brook located in the camp area.
12. No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container supplied by
the District Secretary/ Government Agent for this purpose.
13. (i) District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to stream line the distribution of cooked meals
and beverages to the pilgrims in the camp area.
(ii) No one shall disobey any lawful order to be carried out by Police Officer or a Public Health Inspector in
accordance with instructions given by District Secretary/ Government Agent in the exercise of powers
delegated to him under Para (I) of this regulation.
14. (1) Where any food or drink displayed or placed for sale or distribution among the pilgrims within the camp
area is found to be contaminated or harmful for human consumption, the District Secretary/ Government
Agent or the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector may announce that such food or drink is not
suitable for human consumption.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'10'22
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.10.2019
(2) No one shall sell or distribute within the camp area any food or drink announced as not suitable for human
consumption under Para (I) of this regulation.
(3) It shall be lawful for any Police Officer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit selling or distribution and
destroy any food or drink announced harmful for human consumption under Para (I) of the regulation.
15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in any
place in the camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose under the regulation 7 unless they are
maintained on a license issued by the District Secretary/ Government Agent and in accordance with conditions
stipulated there in. Every license shall be issued free of charge on recommendation of the Medical Officer or any
officer authorized by such medical officer.
16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses and Dansal and all furniture and
equipment in such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.
17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed for sale or distribution in the camp area shall be kept in
show case properly made preventing the flies from entering to the satisfaction of the Medical officer or the
Public Health Inspector.
18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes shall
be left at any place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be dumped into the container placed as
provided in regulation 19. However wastes, milk dregs or any refuse have been found thrown over any place
within the camp area or on the ground close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case of bakery,
sweet stall, place where sweets are made or eating house or ‘Dansal’  the license holder of such place shall be
deemed to have violated provisions in this regulations unless such owner, chief occupant or license holder
proves that all necessary precautions have been taken and action has been taken with proper care to prevent
the commission of such offence.
19. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where Sweets are made, eating houses, Dansal and buildings or constructions
used for commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a wooden, metal or plastic garbage container
with a capacity of 1 1/2 cubic meters (4 1/2 cubic feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden, metal or
plastic lid unless it is used to dump or remove garbage.
20. (1) If the District Secretary/ Government Agent is of the view that any bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets
are made, eating house, Danasal or business place has been established or maintained in violation of
regulations 16,17,18 or 19 in this section he shall order the authority to close down such bakery, sweet stall,
place where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal or business place situated within the camp area or
cancel any license with immediate effect if any license has been issued for such place.
(2) Any person who is in charge of any bakery or sweet stall or place where sweets are made or eating house
or Dansal or business place shall act in accordance with the lawful directive made by the District Secretary/
Government Agent under chapter (1) of this section.
21. No person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious diseases shall enter the camp area.
22. (1) It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to order the pilgrims to leave the camp area
and for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to determine the route of leaving and mode of transport
to be used for leaving when on epidemic is spreading in such area.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'10'22
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.10.2019
5A
(2) No person shall act against any legal order given by the District Secretary/ Government Agent under Para
(I) of this section.
23. Every person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the camp area, and when a
person is knowingly living together with a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease,
every such person shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector or any Police Officer
immediately.
24. Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where sweets are made, restaurant or Dansal within the camp
area shall not allow any person whom he knows is suffering are infectious diseases or contagious disease to
enter such bakery, place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or participate in the distribution, sale
or manufacture of any material or food or drink.
25. A license holder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or an owner
or chief occupant of any lodge or pilgrims’ rest shall not allow any person suffering from any infectious disease
or contagious disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place where sweets are made, eating
house, Dansal lodge or pilgrims’ rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person suffering from any
infectious disease or contagious disease is staying in such place the license holder or owner or chief occupant
shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Officer or any Police Officer immediately.
26. No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity either by cash or by any other means within the camp
area except in a place reserved or provided for begging and solicitation for charity under regulation 7.
27. No person shall light fire works or use any fire arms within the camp area without a written permission from the
District Secretary/ Government Agent.
28. No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name board displayed in any place under regulation 7
or 10.
29. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent, Medical Officer, Public Health Inspector or any
Police Officer to,
(a) Enter any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of carrying out any regulation from among
these regulations and,
(b) To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of displaying a notice
or a name board under regulation 7.
30. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to cancel the following at any time if he considers
that the cancellation is appropriate or it is for the benefit in the public interest.
(a) Any permission given under regulation 6 or regulation 27.
(b) Permit issued under regulation 9.
(c) Any license issued under regulation 15.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'10'22
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.10.2019
SCHEDULE
The margins of the land which belongs to Sri Maha Vihara Temple, in the Grama Niladari’s Division of No 152, Pilana
Divisional Secretary’s Division of Akmeemana, Galle District are indicated as follows.
01. Lot  A – Vihara Maluwa
North: Paddy Field (Plan No. 107413); East: Paddy Field (Plan No. 107413); South: Lot B trace and Paddy Field (Plan
No.107402); West: Paddy Field (Plan No.107414).
02. Lot B – Pond
North: Lot A under this place and Paddy Field (Plan No. 107404); East: Paddy Field (Plan No. 107404); South: Accessing
Road; West: Under this trace.
03. Lot C – Dhamma hall and the land allotment in which the Legumgeya in located
North: Galle, Imaduwa Main Road, Vidyarthodaya Vidyalaya and Lot B under this trace; East: Paddy Field (Plan No.
107404); South: Wala Addarawaththa (Claimed by M. A. Arunolis Appu and other); West: Wala Addarawaththa (Plan No.
107413 and galle, Imaduwa main Road).
04. Lot D – Temple Premises / Garden
North: Vidyarthodaya Vidyalaya and b A portion of Lot No. 3 under the Plan No. P .P.G . 104; East: Vidyarthodaya Vidyalaya
and b A portion of Lot No. 3 under the Plan No. P.P.G . 104; South: Lot C and G under this trace; West: Lot C under this trace.
05. Lot E – Temple Premises / Garden
North  - Lot No. 01 P.P.G 1412; East: Lot No. 4 under this plan P.P.G 104; South: Lot G under this trace and Lot No. 21 P.P.G
1412; West: Lot G under this trace.
06. Lot F – Temple Premises / Garden
North: Lot E under this trace and Lot No. 21 P .P.G 2634; East: Lot No. 21 P.P .G 2634; South: Happana Village,
Rathnaherabeddawatta 
Claimed by  M. A. Francis and other; West: Lot C under this trace.
07. Lot G  –  Awasa Maluwa
North: Lot D under this trace and Lot No. 21 P .P.G 1412; East: Lot C under this trace;  South: Lot J under this trace; West:
Cannel (Plan No. 103830).
08. Lot J – Land in Temple Premises
North: Lot H under this trace; East: Lot C under this trace; South: Wala Affarawatta (Plan No. 107403); West: Cannel (Plan
No. 107403).

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'10'22
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.10.2019
7A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
11 - 712
