

<!-- page 1 -->

847 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
847
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 850
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 854
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two
weeks prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31st August, 2007, should reach the
Government Press on or before 12 noon on 17th August, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01st, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1,512 - 2007 ¡ï“åàÌà”º 24 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å - 2007.08.24
No.  1,512 — FRIDAY, AUGUST, 24,  2007
N.B.— Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,511 of 17.08.2007 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
848
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

849 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
850
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY OF TRADE, MARKETING DEVELOPMENT,
COOPERATIVES AND CONSUMER SERVICES
National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka
POST OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSISTANT
APPLICATIONS  are invited from those qualified for the above
vacancy at the National Intellectual  Property Office of Sri Lanka.
Applications prepared in A4 size papers in accordance with the
specimen form published at the end of this notice should be forwarded
by registered post to reach the Director General, National Intellectual
Property Office, of Sri Lanka ‘Samagam Medura’, 3rd Floor, D. R.
Wijewardana Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before 17th September,
2007.
Applications not in accordance with the specimen form or received
after the closing date will be rejected. ‘The post of Information
Technology Assistant’ should be mentioned in the left hand corner
of the envelope.
01. Post. — Information Technology Assistant (Number of
posts 01)
02. Education and other qualifications.
(i) A Degree in Information Technology or with Information
Technology as a subject from a recognized University.
(ii)Ability to work in English is essential for this post.
03. Monthly Salary Scale.— Rs. 14,850-10x185-4x210-15x290-
7x320 24,130 (according to Public Administration Circular No.: 06/
2006).
04. Age limit.— Applicants must be over 18 years and not more
than 45 years. Upper age limit does not apply to those already
employed in state/provincial service.
05. Conditions of employment.
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii) The selected applicant should contribute to widow’s/
widower’s and orphans pension fund.
(iii)Provisions of paragraphs 10-12 in Chapter 11 of the
Establishment Code shall apply.
06. Method of Recruitment.— The selection will be made from
those who score the highest marks in a structured interview.
07. Other.— The applicants already employed in state/provincial
service must submit their applications through their respective Head
of the Dept./ Institution.
Director General of Intellectual Property,
National Intellectual Property office of Sri Lanka,
‘Samagam Medura’, 3rd Floor,
D. R. Wijewardhana Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
For official use only
Specimen   Application   Form
NATIONAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OFFICE OF
SRI LANKA POST OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
ASSISTANT
01. Name with initials : Mr./Miss./Mrs. : —––––.
02. Name in Full : —––––.
03. Permanent Address : —––––.
04. Postal Address : —––––.
05. National Identity Card Number : —––––.
06. Sex : —––––.
07. (i) Date of Birth :
     Year :............... Month :..........  Date : ..........
(ii) Age as at 17.09.2007
     Years :...........  Months: ........... Days : ....................
08. Civil Status :..................
09. Educational Qualifications :
Degree Year Subjects Class University
10. Declaration  of the applicant.
1,……………….. declare that all information given above are
true to the best of my knowledge. a am aware that I shall not be
entitled to be interviewed if the above particulars are found to be
inaccurate or wrong and that I shall be liable to be dismissed from
Service without compensation if the same is proved after recruitment.
.........................................
Signature of the Applicant.
Date.—.
11. Certification of the Head of the Department/Institution
for the applicant already employed in State / Provincial Service.
I hereby inform that Mr./Miss./ Mrs. ................ the applicant, is
presently employed as a permanent / temporary /casualy/ trainee
officer in this Ministry / Department/ Institution. He /she has not
been subject to any disciplinary action (other than warning) and he/
she can be/cannot be released, if selected.
.....................................
Signature of the Head
of the Dept./Institution.
(official Seal).
Date : —––––.
Designation : —––––.
Ministry/Dept./Institution : —––––.
08-723

<!-- page 5 -->

851 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications.
Applications received late will be rejected while the
department will not take this responsibility of any lost or
delay of applications in the post.
The signature of the application should be attested by an
officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountant’s Service/Principal of a
Government School / Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law
or by an Officer  in the Public Service holding a post with an
initial a salary not less than Rs. 80,160.
(c) Should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 100 in the stamp cage
provided in The application and cancel the stamps by placing
the applicant’s signature on it.
04. Scheme of Training.—(a) The selected applicants will be
admitted to the Nursing Training School as Pupil Nurses and they
should follow the training course for 03 years in Sinhala/Tamil
Language medium.
(b) The trainees at the time of admission to the training will be
provided with rules and regulations are force within the school
of training. They are bound by these rules and regulations
and also by an other rules and regulations which would be
enforced from time to time.
(c)  The trainees who are unsuccessful at the prescribed
examinations or whose work and conduct are found to be
unsatisfactory or who failed to comply with the examinations
and leave regulations of the school of which they are assigned
during the period of training are liable to be discontinued
from training at any time without payment of any
compensation. The trainee will not entitled for any type of
leave during the training period and deductions will be made
from the monthly allowance in the proportion with the month
of days absent from training. However, it is compulsory to
mark 80% of attendance each year to become qualify to sit
for the examination.
(d) The trainees during the period of training in a School Nursing
will be paid and allowance as follows :
(i) 1st Year — Rs. 129,20.00 (per month)
2nd Y ear — Rs. 130,40.00 (per month)
3rd Year — Rs. 131.60.00 (per month).
The trainees who pass the final examination, after successful
completion of the training, they will be appointed to the
Post of Staff Nurse Grade II Seg. “B” by the Director General
of Health Services, on the relevant salary scale depending on
the availability of vacancies of the post.
(e) The trainee should pay to the Department all the allowances
paid to him/her and the all expences incurred by the
Government for training on his/her behalf within the period
of training, provided he/she withdraw or vacated from training
during the period of training.
05. Conditions and the Agreement of Remaining Unmarried.—
(a) All applicants should be unmarried at the time of
submitting their applications and it is compulsory that
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE & NUTRITION
Recruitment of Pupil Nurses – 2007
APPLICA TIONS are invited from the unmarried citizens of Sri Lanka
with following qualifications for recruitment as Pupil Nurses under
the Department of Health Services. (The Number of recruitment of
males will be based on the requirement of institutions under the
Control of the Ministry) :
01.Educational Qualifications :
(a) Passed G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination in year 2006
with minimum of 03 subjects from the Science stream of
subjects.
(b) Passed G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects
at not more than two sittings, with Credit passes for 04
subjects including Sinhala, Mathematics and Science.
The certified photostat copies of the certificate of the above two
examinations should be attached to the application to confirm the
educational qualifications.
02. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 30 years of age
as at 24.09.2007 ;
(c) Height should be not less than 04 feet 10 inches ;
(d) Should be unmarried ;
(e) Should be physically fit and willing to serve in the any part
of the Island  ;
(f) Certified copies of the voters’ list should be sent along with
the application to prove 03 years residence within the district
applied for by the candidate. If the name of the applicant is
not available in the voters’ list, the names of  his/her, parents
should be available in the voters’ list.
In order to confirm the names of the parents, a certified copy of
the Certificate of Birth of the applicant should be sent along with
the application.
Only those applicants who satisfy the above qualifications will
be called for the interview. The required number will be selected
at district level based on the merit order of marks secured at the
G.C.E.  (A/L) Examination.
03. Method of Application.—( a) Application should be prepared
using both sides of a paper in the size of 8 1/2" x 13 1/2" on the form
of specimen appended to this notice. The Section 01-08 should
appear on Page No. 01 and Section 09 page No. 2 and Section 10-13
Page No. 03 as per given in the specimen form of application.
(b) Applications duly perfected should be sent under Registered
cover to reach the Director (Administration) 01, Ministry of
Healthcare, Nutrition, No. 385, “Suwasiripaya”, Ven.
Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 on
or before 24.09.2007. The words “Recruitment to the Pupil
Nurses Training 2007 (ii)” should be already written on the

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
852
they should remain unmarried during the period of 03
years training. A certificate obtained from the Grama
Niladhari countersigned by the Divisional Secretary
confirming the status of being unmarried should be sent
along with the application.
(b) The Pupil Nurses at the time of admission to the Nurse’s
Training School should enter into an agreement with the
Director General of Health Services. That they complete the
training successfully and serve the Department of Health
Services, minimum of 10 years after completion of the
training. The Director General of Health Services will decide
on this period from time to time.
06. Term of Engagement.—(a) The Post of Staff Nurse to which
the Pupil Nurses are appointed, on the results of the final examination
conducted at the end of the training is pensionable and contributions
should be made to the Contributory Pension Scheme.
(b) The appointment to the Post of Staff Nurse Grade II Seg.
“B” will be subject on the 03 years probation.
07.   Service Conditions.—( a) All the trainees before
commencement of the training should undergo to a Medical
Examination.
(b) Appointment will be given to the vacancies existing in the
Post of Nursing Officers Grade II Seg. ‘B’ on the Salary
Scale of Rs. 150,80 - 5 x 150 - 9x 240 -7 x 240 - 20x320—
Rs. 26,420 (General Circular Letter No. 06/2006).
(c) All the officers in the Nursing Service are subject to the,
Provisions in the Establishments Code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka transfers implemented in terms
of policies stipulated by the Department of Health Services,
Financial and the other Regulations and to the other rules and
regulations enforced by the Government by time to time.
(D
R . H. A. P. KAHANDALIYANAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
APPLICATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT FOR THE PUPIL
NURSE’S TRAINING — 2007
01.(a) Name with initials (in English capitals) :—————.
(b) Name in full (in English capitals) :—————.
02.Postal Address:—————.
03.(a) Permanent Address:—————.
(b) District :—————.
04.Date of Birth :
Year:—————,   Month :—————,   Date :—————.
05.Male/Female : ü  Mark in the relevant cage :-
Male
Female
06.Whether Citizen of Sri Lanka : ü Mark in the relevant cage :
           Y es
            No
07.National Identity Card No.:—————.
08.Height :
Feet:—————,     Inches :—————.
09.(a) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level)
Examination (Science Stream of Subjects)
(Please attach a copy of the mark sheet) :
Year : 2006 ————— Index No.:—————.
Subject Grade For Office Subject  Grade For Office
use only use only
 1 3
24
(b)  General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination :—
(i) Year and month of the Examination :—————.
(ii)Index No.:—————.
(iii)First Sitting :—————.
Subject Grade For Office Subject  Grade For Office
use only use only
17
 28
39
41 0
51 1
61 2

<!-- page 7 -->

853 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
(iv) Year and month of the Examination :
(iv)  Second Sitting :                                       Index No. :——.
Subject Grade For Office Subject  Grade For Office
use use
17
 28
39
41 0
51 1
61 2
10. Have you been found guilty for any charge by a Court of
Law ? :
Yes
No
If ‘yes’ please give details :—————.
11. Please indicate in order of your preference the School of
Nursing you are willing to undergo training if you were
selected for Pupil Nurse’s Training :
(Preference may be marked numerically as 1, 2 etc.)
School of Nursing, Colombo
School of Nursing,  Kandy
School of Nursing, Jaffna
School of Nursing, Kandana
School of Nursing, Anuradhapura
School of Nursing, Galle
School of Nursing, Kurunegala
School of Nursing, Badulla
School of Nursing, Ratnapura
School of Nursing, Sri Jayawardhenapura
School of Nursing, Ampara
School of Nursing, Kalutara
School of Nursing, Matara
School of Nursing, Kegalle
School of Nursing, Hambantota
12.(a) I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to my knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained therein are
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification
before selection and to dismissal, if it is discovered so after
appointment.
Affix stamps to the value Rs. 500 and cancel
 same by signing over it.
————————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—————.
13. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant......................is personally
known by me, and he/she is placed his/her signature in my presence
on................day of...................2007.
———————,
Attester’s Signature.
Full Name of the Attesting Officer :—————.
Designation :—————.
Address :—————.
Date :—————.
08-746
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths –
Matara District
APPLICA TIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages,
Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02.Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births,
Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled
to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in
the area.
03.Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04.Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more
than 65 years of age.
05.Applicants should be married.
06.Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could
be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such as District
Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
854
Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies and
Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07.Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District
Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given
in the Schedule on or before 24th September, 2007.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11,
27th July, 2007.
THE SCHEDULE
DistrictDivision The Division and The Address to
of the the Post for which which Applications,
Divisional Applications are must be sent
Secretary called
Matara W eligama Post of Registrar District Secretary/
of Marriages (General) Addl. Registrar
in Weligama Korale  General, Matara
and Births and Deaths in
Midigama Division   
08-803
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY   BAR   EXAMINATION  AND  SECOND  LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN   SRI   LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE,  SRI LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE,  SRI  LANKA  SCIENTIFIC  SERVICE, SRI
LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE,  SRI   LANKA  POLICE   SERVICE  AND   SRI   LANKA   ARCHITECTURES’
SERVICE- 2007
EFFICIENCY Bar Examination and the Second Language Test for officers in the above mentioned Services will be held in Colombo and
Jaffna in November, 2007.
02. Time Tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the both Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. Syllabus :
Service Efficiency Bar Examinations Date and Appendix
number of the relevant to the
Gazette Syllabus
notification
Sri Lanka Administrative First Efficiency Bar 14.11.2005 ‘C’
Service Examination 1419/3
Second Efficiency Bar do. ‘D’
Examination
Second Language Test do ‘E’
Sri Lanka Accountants, First Efficiency Bar 27.07.2001 ‘B’
Service Examination 1194/26
Second Efficiency Bar do. ‘D’
Examination
Officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations at one sitting or different occasions, if they wish so.
However officers are required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within the prescribed period. Action will be taken to
conduct Oral Tests for the officers who sit for the Second Language Test at one centre.
04. (a) Subjects prescribed for the Efficiency Bar in  each Service are as follows :

<!-- page 9 -->

855 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
First Efficiency Bar Examination Second Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours No. Hours
01 Constitutional Law and 3 20 Economics and Social 3
Administrative Law Politics (with Special
reference to Sri Lanka)
02 Legal Systems of 3 21 Systems relating to
Sri Lanka Development 3
Administration (with
special reference to
Sri Lanka)
03 Criminal Law and 3 22 Management and Organization 3
Evidence Law
23 3
05 Administration 3
06 Economics 3
07 Social Science 3
08 English 3
Second Language Test Officer in other services
mentioned in this
notification can also
apply for the 2nd
Language Test, if they
wish so
09 Sinhala (Written) 2
10 Tamil (Written) 2
11 English (Written) 2
12 Sinhala (Oral)
13 Tamil (Oral)
14 English (Oral)
Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service
First Efficiency Bar Examination Second Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours No. Hours
30 Government Financial 3 36 Management Accountancy 3
Procedures
31 Law and Management 3 37 Public Financial 3
Management
Public Sector Financial
Management.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
856
32 Administration 3 38 Management and 3
Organisation
33 Reports writing and 3 Second Language Test
presenting information to Officers who apply for
management this test, please see under
Sri Lanka Administrative
Service for subjects
and subject numbers.
Sri Lanka Police Service
Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours
80 Administration of Justice Law and Evidence Ordinance 3
81 Penal Code and Police Ordinance 3
Officer who apply for the Second Language – please see under Sri Lanka
Administrative Service for subjects and subjects numbers.
Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Architecture’s Service and Sri Lanka Scientific Service
Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours
04 Financial Systems 3
05 Administration 3
04.(b) Names of Examinations :
Sri Lanka Administrative Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Administrative Service Second Efficiency Bar Examination 02
Second Language Test 03
Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service Second Efficiency Bar Examination 02
Sri Lanka Scientific Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Architectures’ Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Police Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Engineering Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01

<!-- page 11 -->

857 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
05. Exemption from the requirement of passing Efficiency Bar Examination :
Sri Lanka Accountant Subject Qualification to be exempted
Service
Second Efficiency Bar 36 Management Accountancy Diploma in Public Finance Management
Examination 37 Public Finance Management conducted by Sri Lanka Institute of Development
38 Management and Organization Administration ;
or
Higher Diploma in Computer Programming conducted
by  Business Management Institution ;
or
Post-Graduate Diploma in Accountancy,  Commerce,
Management Public Administration, Business
Administration Computer Science/ Master of
Arts/Ph.D. ;
or
Passing  the final examination in one of the following:
Institute of Chartered Accountants,
Institute of Chartered Management Accountants,
Chartered Association of Certified Accountant,
British Computer Association,
Australian Computer Association ;
or
Any other similar qualification recognized by the Board
6. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of Examinations to enable the candidates to answer all the subjects
in Sinhala, Tamil or English other than the question papers relating to languages.
7. If any candidate is later found to have sat in a medium in which he is not entitled to sit, his candidature will be cancelled.
8. Application should be prepared according to the annexed form on a paper of A4 size. From number 01 to 05 should be included
into the front page. Candidates appearing for both examination should submit separate applications in respect of each examination.
9. Application should be sent through the respective Head of Department by registered post to reach the following address on or
before 21st September, 2007. Application received after the prescribed date will  be rejected :
Commissioner General,
Department of Examinations,  Sri Lanka,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Pelawatta-Battaramulla.
10. If a candidate does not receive his admission card, he should communicate without delay with the Commissioner General of
Examinations, (Telegraphic Address “Exams” Battaramulla) informing him that he has not received the admission form and giving following
information :
(1) Name of Examinations :————.
(2) Full Name of the candidate :————.
(3) Postal Address :————.
(4) Post Office, Registration Number and Date of Dispatch :————.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
858
11. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to comply with the requirements as laid down in Paragraph 10 above will
not be entertained.
12. The attention of all candidates is invited to Circular No. SE  274 of 29.06.1971 issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding the use of Identity cards. It is the responsibility of candidates to prove their identity through any of the following
Identity Ccard at the Examination Hall :
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii) Valid Passport.
13. Examination fee will be as follows :
        (a) First sitting (whole examination or part thereof) free of charge ;
        (b) Each subsequent sitting –
Rs.   Cents.
Complete Examination 115    0
One Subject 75    0
Oral Test 75    0
The fees should be paid in revenue stamps duly cancelled by the candidate with his signature thereon.
D. D
ISSANAYAKE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration,
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
  and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
Appendix “C”
(a) The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service will comprise the following subjects:-
(1) Law ;
(2) Administration ;
(3) (a) Economics ; or
(b) Sociology ;
(4) English.
SCHEME OF EXAMINATIONS
 (1) Law (consist of 3 papers)
Syllabus :
Subject No. 01 - Constitutional Law and Administrative Law:
(i) The Structure of the Constitution of Sri Lanka with historical development and the Second Republic Constitution.
(ii) The Executive, President of the Republic , Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister , Central Government Department
and the Public Service.
(iii)Administration of Justice.
(iv) Judicial Control  over Administration.
(v) Directive Principles of the State Policy and fundamental Duties.
(vi) Delegated Legislation.
(vii) Liability of the State and the Public Authorities
(viii)Fundamental Rights.

<!-- page 13 -->

859 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
Subject No. 02 - The Legal System of Sri Lanka
(i) The legal history of Sri Lanka.
(ii) The Organization of the Courts.
(iii)The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 6)
(iv) The Act of No. 44 of 1971 Administration of Justice.
Subject No. 03 - Criminal Law and Evidence Law
(i) The Penal Code
(ii) The Evidence Ordinace
Note.— A Candidates will be required to obtain a 35% in each paper and an average of 40% percent (40%)
(2) Subject No. 05 -  Administration ; One paper based on following ;
(i) Office and Field Organization and Methods ;
(ii)The Establishment Code Chapters I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII.
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain 40% percent.
(3)  (a) Subject No. 06 -  Economics – One paper based on the following ;
(I) Principles of Economics with special reference to the theories of Value, Production and Distribution;
(II) Money, Production and Distribution;
(III)Economic Structure of Sri Lanka.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain 40 percent.
(b)  Subject No. 07 Sociology – One paper based on the following ; (with special reference to Sri Lanka)
(I) Social Structure, Organisation and functions ;
(II) Human Relationship and groupings ;
(III) Kinship, Marriage and the Family ;
(IV) Rural and Urban Society ;
(V) Social stratification and differentiations ;
(VI) Social Control ;
(VII) Culture, Religion, Morals and Values.
Note.— A Candidates will be required to obtain 40% percent.
 (2)  Subject No. 08 –  English
Content –
Listening and Speaking Skills
The candidate should possess the ability to funcion  effectively in the following language functions.
– General Greeting and introductions;
– Giving and Getting Information ;
– Advising, Suggesting and Expressing Opinions ;
– Describing Events and Situations ;
– Telephone skills ;
– Interviewing skills ;
– Meeting ;
– Listening and Not taking skills ;

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
860
English Grammar
A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammer in the Spoken the Written language is expected from the
candidate.
– Tenses and   Number ;
– Sentences (Simple compound/ complex, compound complex) ;
– Relatives clauses;
– Reported speech;
– Adjectives & Adverbs;
– Determiners ;
– Prepositions.
Writing Skills
The knowledge on the mordern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study.
– Internal modes of Communication;
– Formal Correspondence skills ;
– Writing Descriptions/Explanations ;
– Summary writing skills ;
– Report Writing skills ;
– Meeting minutes/Agendas / Invitations ;
– Comprehension.
Reading  Skills
Candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/written interpretation is expected.
– Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text ;
– Reading and Interpretation (verbal/written) ;
– Understading the cohesuon and coherence of a passage ;
Note.— A Candidate will be required to obtain 40% percent.
Appendix “D”
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
(a) The Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service will comprise the following subjects:
(1) Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka);
(2) The Process for Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka) ;
(3) Management and Organisation.
(4) Public Sector Financial Management.
Syllabus
(1) Subject No. 20 — Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) :
One paper based on the factors which  influence the  formulation of economic and social policy  in Sri Lanka. The application of
the principles of  Economics and Sociology in the recent economical. Social and Political History of Sri Lanka.
Note.— A candidate will be required to obtain  40% percent.
(2) Subject No. 21 — The Process of Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka) :
One paper based on the Institution of Development Administration their working and their inter-relationship with special
reference to :
(a) The Machinery of Government in Sri Lanka;

<!-- page 15 -->

861 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
(b) The constitutional background of the machinery of Government in Sri Lanka ;
(c) Provincial Councils and Local Government ;
(d) People’s Organizations ;
(e) Public Corporations.
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain  40%.
 (3) Subject No. 22 —  Management and Organization
One paper based on :
the principles of management and organization;
the application of these principles to problems and issues in the Public Sector;
modern tools and techniques of management.
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain  40%.
(4) Subject No. 23 —  Public Sector Financial Management
One paper based on following  :
(a) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka ;
Constitutional Provisions Relating to Pubic Financial Management
Parliamentary Control Over Public Finance.
Meaning of Fund
Consolidated Fund and its  operation
Meaning and methods of Appropriation
Contingencies Fund
Other funds and their Operation
Government Revenue
Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance
Powers and Functions of the Treasury
Warrants and Imprest Authority
Audtitor General, his Powers and functions
Committee on Public Expenditure
Committee on Public Enterprises
(b) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers and their Powers
Function
(c ) Internal Audit.
(d) Public Expenditure Planning and Management.
Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions.
Identification of Government Policies, Goals Targets and the Work Programmes
Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and  Programmes and Prioritization of them
Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure
(e) Variations of Approved Estimates of Expenditure
Application of Virement Procedure
Management of Public Sector Cadres and Salaries
Total cost Estimates and Revisions
Supplementary Estimates
(f) Losses and Waivers of Govt. Properties
(g) Miscellaneous Accounting Matters.
(h) Delegation of Functions for Financial Control.
(i) Custody of Public Money and Bank Accounts Procedure

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
862
(j) Govt. Procurement Procedure
Procurement of Goods, Services and Works
Composition, Appointment, Powers and Functions of Tender
Boards and Technical Evaluation Committees.
Tender Evaluation Procedure
Management of Donor Funded Projects.
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain  40%.
Appendix “B”
Sri Lanka Accountant’s Service
First Efficiency Bar Examination :
(a) The First Efficiency Bar Examination will comprise of 4 papers of 3 hours each in the following subjects :
(1) Government Financial Procedure ;
(2) Law and Management ;
(3) Administration :
(4) Report Writing and Presenting Information to Management.
(b) Officers may take up the subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination on one and the same occasion or on separate occasions
if they so desire.
(c) Candidates will be required to obtain 40 percent in each paper for a pass.
Syllabus :-
(1) Government Financial Procedures.– Candidates will be tested on the application of the Government Financial Regulations
and Treasury Circulars in respect to government transaction, financial regulations/procedures as they relate to revenue, expenditure, foreign
aid, annual and supplementary estimate, public debt, procurements, tenders imprests and advances, financial sanctions, the accounts of the
island, functional and economic classification, programme and performance budget, functions of the Minister of Finance the General
Treasury the Planning Ministry, the Secretaries, the Auditor-General and the Public Accounts Committee.
(2)  Law and Management
      Law :
Definition of Law,
Legal systems in Sri Lanka,
Court system in Sri Lanka,
Law of Contracts,
Law of Agency,
Sale of Goods,
Hire purchase,
Negotiable instruments,
Guarantee,
Insurance,
      Management :
Introduction to management,
Functions and skills of managers,
Planning process and setting organizational levels,
Organizations structure,
Management of human resources,

<!-- page 17 -->

863 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
Performance evaluation,
Promotion,
Motivation,
Leadership,
Communication,
Decision making,
Problem solving,
Management of change,
Managing conflicts,
Managing time,
Quality circles and productivity,
Management ethics and responsibility,
(3)  Administration.- Candidates will be tested on provisions in the Establishments Code Part 1 and part II.
04. Report Writing and Presenting Information to Management :
Importance of timeliness, accuracy, completeness and relevance in relation to management information,
Dealing with reference materials,
Periodic and ad-hoc reports,
Writing minutes and reports of meetings,
Structure of Management reports,
Significant results to be highlighted,
Interpretation of results,
Suggestions to variations,
Use of statistical methods in analyzing data,
Performance comparison,
Use of ratios, percentages in management reports,
Diagrammatic representations,
Listening to professional talks and lectures,
Reporting lectures in speech,
Panel discussions,
Seminar skills,
Delivering a speech.
Appendix “D”
(b) The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Accountant’s Service will comprise the following subjects :-
(1) Management Accounting
(2) Public Finance Management
(3) Management and Organization
Officers may take up the subjects of the 2nd Efficiency Bar examination on one and the same occasion or on separate occasions
as they so desire. A candidate will be required to obtain minimum of 40 percent of the marks for a pass.
SCHEME OF EXAMINATION
(1) Management Accounting - A paper of 3 hours duration.
Syllabus :-Control theory in accounting feed back, open and closed loop systems. Types of standard costs ideal basic and correct.
Principles and practice of setting performance standards and value standards revision of standard, consideration of the learning
curve and motivation. The analysis significance presentation and investigation of variances and sub-variances, behavioral aspects of control
accounting. The budgeting concept, the administration of budgetary control, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets, master and
subsidiary budgets, budget centers, management participation in budget preparation, involvement and motivation, The Budget period and
identification of the principal budget factor.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
864
(2) Public Financial Management :- A paper of 3 hours duration. Selection of question will  not be allowed.
Role of Government Accountant.— Constitutional and legal framework of public finance, Institutional framework, Central
Government, Government Corporation, Local Authorities, Co-operative Movement etc.
Parliamentary Control Functions of Treasury, Planning Ministry, Estimates Committee, Auditor-General, Public Account
Committee, Consolidated Fund, Problems of Parliamentary Control.
The Financial Cycle, Planning, Programming Budgeting, Funding Authorization, Accounting, Reporting, Evaluation and Audit.
Project appraisal, application of shadow prices and statistical data, determination of pay off metric and expected value, cost
benefit analysis, discounted cash flow, internal rate of return, ranking of project, economic financial and managerial aspects of projects
formulation and appraisal, effective project presentation.
Programming Techniques, applications of network - analysis assignment of resources, transportation, problem, replacement of
assets that degenerate with use or passage of time and those which do not but which fall after certain amount of use of time.
Performance budget installation of basic methods, measurement of performance, kind of measure, selecting unit and rooms,
systems of measurement and performance analysis.
Performance budget, programme structure, Classification by functions, programmes activities projects and objects of expenditure.
Financial controls Accountability, Internal control and Financial Regulation, Internal Audit, Efficiency Audit, Management Audit.
Pricing in Public Enterprises.
Financial control of Government, Commercial Enterprises, budgeting management, reporting interpretation of account, the use of
financial ratios.
Design and content of accounts and reports of Government and Public undertakings.
Note.—A Candidate will be required to obtain minimum of 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
(3) Management and Organization :- A paper of 3 hours duration.
The questions in this subject will be designed to assess the candidate’s grasp of the principles of management and organization.
Appendix “E”
SINHALA
The Test in Sinhala will consist of a Written and on oral part.
The written paper will be of two hours duration and will contain question on :
(i) Grammer,
(ii)Translation into English of petitions or reports from Headmen or Grama Seva Niladharis
written in different running hands.
(iii)Translation into Sinhala from an Official paper of document in English.
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(i) Dictation of Official material from English into Sinhala so that the passage can be understood and taken down or written by
a Sinhalese,
(ii)Reading of  a petition in Sinhala,
(iii)Conversation and Interpretation :- The purpose of the test will be assess the candidates’ power of understanding Sinhala of
different classes and of making himself  understood both in common conversation and in the usual course of official business.
A candidate is required to obtain 40% marks for each section of the written and oral subject for a pass.

<!-- page 19 -->

865 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
Tamil
The Test in Tamil will consist of a Written and an Oral part.
The Written  paper which will be of two hours duration and will contain questions on :
(i) Grammer
(ii)Translation into English of petitions or reports from Headmen or Grama Seva Niladharis written in different running hands.
(iii) Translation into Tamil from an Official paper or document in English.
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(c) Dictation of Official material from English into Tamil so that the passage can be understood and taken down or written by a
Tamil.
(ii)Reading of a Tamil petition.
(iii)Conversation and Interpretation :- The purpose of the test will be to assess the candidates’ power of understanding Tamil of
different classes and of making himself understood both in common conversation and in the usual course of official business.
Note.—A Candidate is required to obtain   40% marks for each section  of written  and oral subject  for a pass.
English
A prototype of the question paper is furnished below for the information of candidates :-
Part A
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb given within brackets :-
During the last war our country .......... 1 (be) a British Colony..............2 (take) a full part in the war effort. Consequently our tea,
rubber and coconut .................. 3 (ship) to Britain at very favourable prices and the foreign exchange we ............. 4 (earn) ................
5 (accumulate) as assets. Again during the Korean war in the early fifties our products .................. 6 (fetch) good prices and we ................
7 (not have) any exchange problem. However, political independence .................. 8 (not given rise) to any effort to .................... 9 (build up)
our economy we ................ 10 (be) a nation of consumers goods which .................... 11 (squander) our foreign exchange on consumer goods
which ................... 12 (can produce) locally and incidentally diversified our economy. Over the last decade we ................... 13 (begin) to feel
the pinch when our primary products .................. 14 (fail) to command good prices in the world market while our requirements of food both
rice and subsidiary food stuffs ........................ 15 (rise) in price.
(b) Fill in the blanks with the correct preposition (where necessary)
As Assistant Secretary ............... 16 charge ............. 17 subjects, it was my duty to convene groups of officers dealing .................. 18
different aspects of development work in the Ministry ................... 19 time to time. They discussed ........................ 20 various problems
that they confronted and which they could not cope ....................... 21 on their own. We were thus able to share our experience ..................... 22
each other and make concrete proposals ...................... 23 the Secretary every month. He in turn put ...................... 24 his own plans for
discussion .................... 25 these meetings.
(c) Underline the correct letters given within brackets that would complete the spelling of the following words :-
26. har ……… ment (rass/as/ass)
27. ember ……… (rass/as/ass)
28. tol ……… (arreance/ erance/erence)
29. Par ……… arian (liament/ limen/liment)
30. bal ……… ing (let/ lat/ lot)
31. itin ……… (erary/arary/erarie)
32. Pers ……… (everance/everence/ewerence)
33. bour ……… (geoise/joursie/juwarsy)
34. prolet ……… (ariet/ariat/eriyat)
35. com ……… ate (memorr/ emor/memor).

<!-- page 20 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
866
(d) In each of the following statements underline the correct word within brackets :-
36. The inventory was checked by the Board of (Surveillance/Survey/Surveyors)
37. At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the accused officer has (contradicted/contravened/contaminated) the regulations.
38. Every receipt should have a (counterfoil/counterfeit/counterpane) for the purpose of audit.
39. There was a possibility that the prosecution had (fabricated/fumigated/promulgate) the evidence.
40. (Discrete/Discretionary/Discriminatory) power was given to the Head of the Department under the relevant Act.
41. The Police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush until the bribe taker arrived.
42. The entire staff turned upon (facilitate/infiltrate/felicitate) the watcher on his retirement.
43. In times of national crisis we must avoid (luxuriant/luxurious) habits.
44. Martial music was played over the radio during height of the battle to keep up the (moral/morale/morals) of the
people.
45. Candidates are advised to use (Stationary/Stationery) sparingly owing to the acute paper shortage.
(e) Underline the correct phrase in the brackets that means the same as the word or phrase underlined in each sentence.
46. In good Management the boss should, support his staff in their work (back out/back up/back away).
47. The sales and replacement of stock amounted to over Rs. 5,000 (turn out/turn up/turn away).
48. We were warned at the start not to let out work get into arrears (set out/out set).
49. The younger son wasted his father’s wealth in a few years (ran over/ran through)’
50. I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred me from going (put away/put off).
Part B
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the questions set out below :-
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, liberty, constitutional government, and respect for the law or at
least the definitions of them, began with the reflection of Greek thinkers upon the institutions of City State. But in the long history
of political thought the meaning of such terms has been variously modified and always that meaning has to be understood in the light
of the institutions by which the indicates were to be realized and of the society in which those institutions did their work. The Greek
City States was so different from the political communities in which modern men live that it requires no small effort of the
imagination to picture its social and political life. The Greek Philosophers were thinking of political practices far different from any
that have prevailed commonly in modern word, and the whole climate of opinion in which the work was done was different. Their
problems though not without their analogies in the preset, were never identical with modern problems and the ethical apparatus by
which political life was evaluated and criticized varied widely from any that now prevails. In order to understand at all accurately
what their theories meant it necessary first to realize at least roughly what kind of institutions they had in view and what citizenship
connected as an effect and as an ideal, to the public for whom they wrote. For this purpose, the Government of Athens is especially
important, partly because it is the best known, but chiefly because it was an object of special concern to the greatest of Greek
Philosophers.
As compared with modern states the ancient City-State was exceedingly small both in area and in population. The numbers
were exceedingly uncertain but, a  figure somewhat in excess of three hundred thousand would be approximately correct. Such an
arrangement of a small territory denominated by a single City was typical off the City State.
In each of the following cases, choose the alternative which in your opinion supports the views expressed in the above
passage.
Place a tick (right mark) against the correct answer.-
51. Athens is significant for the students of Greek political thought mainly because :-
(a) it was the most powerful of the Greek City-States ;
(b) its ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks themselves ;
(c) it had the most ideal form of Government ;
(d) it is the best known of the Greek City-States.

<!-- page 21 -->

867 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
52. Greek political thought was concerned with problems :-
(a) entirely unrelated to ;
(b) identical with ;
(c) different from analogous but to ;
53. The moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is :-
(a) very similar to modern moral and religious ideas ;
(b) unknown ;
(c) very different from modern moral and religious ideas.
54. It is :-
(a) easy,
(b) not at all easy,
(c) impossible,
for a modern man to imagine what life was like in a Greek City-State.
55. In comparison with the ancient Greek City States are :-
(a) very large,
(b) very small,
(c) about the same size.
56. The population of an ancient Greek City States was :-
(a) much less than 300,000,
(b) over 3 million,
(c) Just over 300,000.
57. The City-State of Athens comprises  :-
(a) a small territory governed by a single city,
(b) a large territory governed by a number of cities,
(c) a small territory with village councils,
(d) a large territory with a decentralised administration.
58. At different times in the history of the world people :-
(a) have thought in basicially the same way,
(b) have thought in different ways,
(c) have contradicted the views of people of the previous generation.
59. Details of political theory are derived from Greek Political thought :-
(a) because the Greek City States was very similar to modern states,
(b) in spite of Greek City State being very different from modern States,
(c) because modern political theorists are students of Greek Philosophy.
60. The meaning of political ideal at the particular moment in European History since the time of the Greeks can be defined only be :-
(a) relating it to its context,
(b) tracing it back to its original meaning among the Greeks,
(c) investigating the meaning of the Greek word for it,
(d) taking into account only those features in it which have persisted throughout its history.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
868
61. Write sentences using each of the following words so as to bring out its meaning clearly :-
Arbitration, emoluments, etiquette, consolidate, hypothetical, retrospective, exigencies, evaluate, review, empower.
Either
62. Write a letter to the Head of an Educational Institute in an English speaking country, setting out the following information in an
orderly manner :-
(i) The equivalence of our examination certificate to the   certificate specified in this letter cannot be determined as the examining
authorities in Sri Lanka have not been consulted by the institution concerned in that country.
(ii)The G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Credit Pass has been officially equated with an Ordinary Pass in London G. C. E. (Ordinary
Level),
(iii)The receipt of the letter sent to the Commissioner of Examinations is acknowledged.
(iv) Any further information in this matter may be obtained from the Embassy of the Republic of Sri Lanka in that country.
63. Write a memorandum to the Secretary, Bureau of Standards marking out a case for the adoption of the 24 hour clock in this
country stating  the advantages of such a measure.
Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Architecture's Service and Sri Lanka Scientific Service
(1) Subject No. 04
Syllabus :-
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka Part I (Except Chapter X)
(b) The Estimates of the Current Year e.g. — Their Arrangement the Heads of Revenue ; The Finance and Appropriatin Acts ;
Note.—A Candidate will be required to obtain   40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
(2) Subject No. 05
Refer Subject No. 5 under the Sri Lanka Administrative Service EBI.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Official Use Only
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINA TIONS – SRI LANKA
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  SECOND  LANGUAGE  EXAMINA TION  FOR  OFFICERS  OF  THE  SRI LANKA  ADMINISTRA TIVE  SERVICE , SRI
LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS ’ SERVICE , SRI LANKA  SCIENTIFIC  SERVICE , SRI LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE , SRI LANKA  POLICE  SERVICE  AND
SRI LANKA  ARCHITECTURE ’S SERVICE –2007
Requested Examination City :-  Colombo Jaffna
(Please mark “  ✓   ” in the relevent Box
(To be forwarded through the Head of the Department to the Commissioner General of Examinations, by registered Post)
(The envelope should bear the name of the examination on the top left-hand corner.)
01. (a) Last name with Initials :————.
(in block letters)

<!-- page 23 -->

869 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
(b) Names denoted by Initials :————.
          (in block letters)
02. Postal Address (for dispatch of Admission Card) :————.
(in block letters)
03. Name of the Examination :————.
Note .- vide 4B before completing this.
04. The Language Medium in which Officer will sit the Examination :————.
05. (i) The Service to which the Officer belongs :————.
(ii)Date of appointment to that service :————.
Date Month Year
06. Subject offer (to be clearly stated) with the subject number as indicated in the first paragraph of the notification.
(i) .........................Subject No.
(ii).........................Subject No.
(iii).........................Subject No.
(iv) .........................Subject No.
(v) .........................Subject No.
(vi) .........................Subject No.
(vii).........................Subject No.
07. Date of Birth :
Date :————.  Month  :————. Y ear :————.
08. Designation :————.
Name of Department :————.
09. If the Officer is in Administrative Service, the date on which he was appointed to such service :————.
10. If the Officer is not in the Administrative Service to which service he belongs :————.
11. If the Officer is in the Administrative Service the examination for which he is applying :—
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)
(a) First Efficiency Bar Examination (A)
(b) Second Efficiency Bar Examination (B)
(c) Second Language Examination (C)
12. If the Officer is not  in the Administrative Service the examination for which he is applying :————.
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)
13. State whether you have sat this examination previously in whole or in part :————.
If so state subject and give year and month :————.
Examination Subject Year Month

<!-- page 24 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2007
870
I, declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the language medium indicated at
Para. 04 above.
I, also declare that the stamps affixed to this application are valid and unused before cancellation by me.
14. Fees paid Rs. :
Cage of Stamps
Date :————. ————,
Signature of Candidate.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Forwarded –
I certify that the above mentioned candidate Mr/Mrs./Miss........................................who is eligible to sit for the examination in
the requested medium as, indicated in the Para. 04.
I attest the candidate’s signature.
————.
Signature of Head of the Department and
Designation.
Date :————.
08-638
AMENDMENT
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATION AND RADAR TECHNICIAN -
CLASS II SEGMENT  B OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2007
I hereby inform you that para No.15 of the above notice published by me in the part I section (IIa) of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 20.07.2007 will be amended as follows.
15. Method of Selection :
A candidate should score minimum of 40% or more marks to qualify from each subject. The candidates who have received higher
marks are summoned for an interview and no marks will be given at the interview. The candidates who have received highest marks
for both subjects and qualified under No.05 will be given appointments to the Segment II B.
Director General of Meteorology,
Department of Meteorology,
Colombo 07,
06th August, 2007.
08-690
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.