

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2321$54 - 2023 ud¾;= ui 02 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2023'03'02
No. 2321/54  -  THURSDAY,  MARCH 02,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
*RYHUQPHQW1RWL¿FDWLRQV
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT, No. 15 of 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), 
the Institute has adopted the Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Ph ase 1-Amendments to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
H൵HFWLYHIRUDQQXDOUHSRUWLQJSHULRGVEHJLQQLQJRQRUDIWHUst-DQXDU\SXEOLVKHGKHUHZLWKIRUWKHSXUSRVHRIWKH6UL
/DQND$FFRXQWLQJDQG$XGLWLQJ6WDQGDUGV$FW1RRI7KLV6WDQGDUGVKDOOEHH൵HFWLYHIRUDQQXDOUHSRUWLQJSHULRGV
EHJLQQLQJRQRUDIWHUst January 2020.  
By Order of the Council, 
 R.S. $ඇඈආൺ3උංඒൺൽൺඋඌඁൺඇං,
  Secretary 
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A, 
Malalasekera Mawatha,
&RORPER
02
nd March, 2023.
N.B.— 6LQKDODDQG7DPLOYHUVLRQVRIWKLV*D]HWWH([WUDRUGLQDU\DUHSXEOLVKHGVHSDUDWHO\
1A - PG 6299 - (03/2023)


<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
Amendments to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments
Paragraphs 6.8.1–6.8.12 and 7.1.8 are added. A new  heading is added before paragraph 6.8.1. New 
subheadings are added before paragraphs 6.8.4, 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6. 8.7 and 6.8.9. These paragraphs have 
not been underlined for ease of reading.
Paragraph 7.2.26 is amended. New text in this paragraph is underlined.
Chapter 6 Hedge accounting
...
6.8. Temporary exceptions from applying specific hedge accountin g requirements
6.8.1 An entity shall apply paragraphs 6.8.4 –6.8.12 and paragraphs 7.1.8 and 7.2.26(d) to all hedging 
relationships directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform. These paragraphs apply only to such 
hedging relationships. A hedging relationship is directly affec ted by interest rate benchmark reform
only if the reform gives rise to uncertainties about:
(a) the interest rate benchmark (contractually or non-contractually  specified) designated as a
hedged risk; and/or
(b) thetimingortheamountofinterestratebenchmark-basedcashflows of the hedged item or of the
hedging instrument.
6.8.2 For the purpose ofapplying paragraphs 6.8.4–6.8.12, the term‘interestrate benchmark reform’ refers to 
the market-wide reform of an interest rate benchmark, including the replacement of an interest rate
benchmark with an alternative benchmark rate such as that resulting fromthe recommendations set out in
the Financial StabilityBoard’s July 2014 report‘Reforming Major Interest Rate Benchmarks’.1
6.8.3 Paragraphs 6.8.4 –6.8.12 provide exceptions only to the requirements specified in these paragraphs. An 
entity shall continue to apply all other hedge accounting requirements to hedging relationships directly
affected by interest rate benchmark reform.
Highly probable requirement for cash flow hedges
6.8.4 For the purpose of determining whether a forecast transact ion (or a component thereof) is highly 
probable as required by paragraph 6.3.3, an entity shall assume that the interest rate benchmark on
which the hedged cash flows (contractually or non-contractually specified) are based is not altered as
a result of interest rate benchmark reform.
Reclassifying the amount accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve
6.8.5 For the purpose of applying the requirement in paragraph 6.5.12 in order to determine whether the
hedged future cash flows are expected to occur, an entity shall assume that the interest rate benchmark
on which the hedged cash flows (contractually or non-contractually specified) are based is not altered
as a result of interest rate benchmark reform.
Assessing the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument
6.8.6 For the purpose of applying the requirements in paragraphs 6.4.1(c)(i) and B6.4.4–B6.4.6, an entity
shall assume that the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged cash flows and/or the hedged risk
1 The report, 'Reforming Major Interest Rate Benchmarks', is available at http://www.fsb.org/wp- content/uploads/r_140722.pdf.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    3A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
(contractually or non- contractually specified) are based, or the interest rate benchmark on which the
cash flows of the hedging instrument are based, is not altered as a result of interest rate benchmark
reform.
Designating a component of an item as a hedged item
6.8.7 Unless paragraph 6.8.8 applies, for a hedge of a non-contractually specified benchmark component of 
interest rate risk, an entity shall apply the requirement in paragraphs 6.3.7(a) and B6.3.8—that the risk
component shall beseparatelyidentifiable —onlyattheinceptionofthehedgingrelationship.
6.8.8 When an entity, consistent with its hedge documentation, frequently resets (ie discontinues and restarts) a
hedging relationship because both the hedging instrument and the hedged item frequently change (ie 
the entity uses a dynamic process in which both the hedged items and the hedging instruments used to
manage that exposure do not remain the same for long), the entity shall apply the requirement in
paragraphs 6.3.7(a) and B6.3.8—that the risk component is separately identifiable—only when it 
initially designates a hedged item in that hedging relationship. A hedged item that has been assessed 
at the time of its initial designation in the hedging relationship, whether it was at the time of the hedge 
inception or subsequently, is not reassessed at any subsequent redesignation in the same hedging
relationship.
End of application
6.8.9 Anentityshallprospectivelyceaseapplyingparagraph6.8.4toahe dgeditem at the earlier of:
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no longer present with
respect to the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-basedcash flows of the
hedged item;and
(b) when the hedging relationship that the hedged item is part of is discontinued.
6.8.10 An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 6.8.5 at the earlier of:
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no longer present with
respect to the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-basedfuture cash flows of
the hedged item; and
(b) when the entire amount accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve with r e s p e c t  t o  t h a t
discontinued hedging relationship has been reclassified to profitor loss.
6.8.11 An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 6.8.6:
(a) to a hedged item, when the uncertainty arising from interest  rate benchmarkreformisnolonger
present with respect to the hedged risk or the timing and the amount of the interest rate
benchmark-based cash flows of the hedged item; and
(b) to a hedging instrument, when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reformis no
longer present with respect to the timing andtheamountoftheinterestratebenchmark-basedcash
flowsofthe hedging instrument.
If the hedging relationship that the hedged item and the hedging instrument are part of is discontinued 
earlier than the date specified i n paragraph 6.8.11(a) or the date specified in paragraph 6.8.11(b), the
entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 6.8.6 to that hedging relationship at the date of
discontinuation.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
6.8.12 When designating a group of items as the hedged item, or  a combination of financial instruments as the 
hedging instrument, an entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraphs 6.8.4–6.8.6 to an individual 
item or financial instrument in accordance with paragraphs 6.8.9, 6.8.10, or 6.8.11, as relevant, when the 
uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no longer present with respect to the hedged 
risk and/or the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of that item or 
financial instrument. 
 
Chapter 7 Effective date and transition 
 
7.1 Effective date 
... 
7.1.8  Interest Rate Benchmark Reform, which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39 and SLFRS 7, issued in September 
2019, added Section 6.8 and amended paragraph 7.2.26. An entity  shall apply these amendments for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies 
these amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. 
Transition 
... 
 
Transition for hedge accounting (Chapter 6) 
... 
7.2.26 As an exception to prospective application of the hedge accounting requirements of this Standard, an 
entity: 
... 
(d)  shall apply the requirements in Section 6.8 retrospectivel y. This retrospective application 
applies only to those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the reporting period in 
which an entity first applies those requirements or were designated thereafter, and to the amount 
accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve that existed at the beginning of the reporting period in 
which an entity first applies those requirements. 
 
Amendments to LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
 
Paragraphs 102A–102N and 108G are added. A new heading is added before paragraph 102A. New 
subheadings are added before paragraphs 102D, 102E, 102F, 102H and 102J. These paragraphs have 
not been underlined for ease of reading. 
 
Hedging 
 …. 
 
Temporary exceptions from applying specific hedge accounting requirements 
102A An entity shall apply paragraphs 102D –102N and 108G to all hedging relationships directly affected 
by interest rate benchmark reform. These paragraphs apply only to such hedging relationships. A hedging 
relationship is directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform only if the  r ef orm  g i v e s  r i s e  t o  
uncertainties about: 
(a) the interest rate benchmark (contractually or non-contractually  specified) designated as a 
hedged risk; and/or 
(b) the timing or the amount of interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of the hedged item or of the 
hedging instrument. 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
102B For the purpose of applying paragraphs 102D –102N, the term ‘interest rate benchmark reform’ refers 
to the market-wide reform of an interest rate benchmark, including the replacement of an interest rate 
benchmark with an alternative benchmark rate such as that resul ting from the recommendations set out in 
the Financial Stability Board’s July 2014 report ‘Reforming Major Interest Rate Benchmarks’.2 
 
102C Paragraphs 102D –102N provide exceptions only to the requirements specified in these paragraphs. An 
entity shall continue to apply all other hedge accounting requirements to hedging relationships directly 
affected by interest rate benchmark reform. 
Highly probable requirement for cash flow hedges 
102D For the purpose of applying the requirement in paragraph 88(c) that a forecast transaction must be highly 
probable, an entity shall assume that the interest rate benchma rk on which the hedged cash flows 
(contractually or non- contractually specified) are based is no t altered as a result of interest rate 
benchmark reform. 
Reclassifying the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income 
102E For the purpose of applying the requirement in paragraph 1 01(c) in order to determine whether the 
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, an entity shall assume that the interest rate benchmark 
on which the hedged cash flows (contractually or non-contractually specified) are based is not altered 
as a result of interest rate benchmark reform. 
Effectiveness assessment 
102F For the purpose of applying the requirements in paragraphs  88(b) and AG105(a), an entity shall assume 
that the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged cash flows and/or the hedged risk (contractually 
or non- contractually specified) are based, or the interest rate benchmark on which the cash flows of the 
hedging instrument are based, is not altered as a result of interest rate benchmark reform. 
 
102G For the purpose of applying the requirement in paragraph 8 8(e), an entity is not required to discontinue a 
hedging relationship because the actual results of the hedge do not meet the requirements in paragraph 
AG105(b). For the avoidance of doubt, an entity shall apply the other conditions in paragraph 88, including 
the prospective assessment in paragraph 88(b), to assess whethe r the hedging relationship must be 
discontinued. 
Designating financial items as hedged items 
102H Unless paragraph 102I applies, for a hedge of a non-contractually specified benchmark portion of interest 
rate risk, an entity shall apply the requirement in paragraphs 81 and AG99F —that the designated portion 
shall be separately identifiable—only at the inception of the hedging relationship. 
102I When an entity, consistent with its hedge documentation, f requently resets (ie discontinues and restarts) a 
hedging relationship because both the hedging instrument and the hedged item frequently change (ie 
the entity uses a dynamic process in which both the hedged items and the hedging instruments used to 
manage that exposure do not remain the same for long), the enti ty shall apply the requirement in 
paragraphs 81 and AG99F—that the designated portion is separately identifiable—only when it initially 
designates a hedged item in that hedging relationship. A hedged item that has been assessed at the time of its 
initial designation in the hedging relationship, whether it was  at the time of the hedge inception or 
subsequently, is not reassessed at any subsequent redesignation in the same hedging relationship. 
 
                                                           
2  The report, 'Reforming Major Interest Rate Benchmarks', is avai lable at http://www.fsb.org/wp- content/uploads/r_140722.pdf. 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
End of application 
102J An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 102D to a hedged item at the earlier of: 
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark refor m is no longer present with 
respect to the timing and the amount of the interest rate bench mark-based cash flows of the 
hedged item; and 
(b) when the hedging relationship that the hedged item is part of is discontinued. 
 
102K An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 102 E at the earlier of: 
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark refor m is no longer present with 
respect to the timing and the am ount of the interest rate benchmark-based future cash flows of 
the hedged item; and 
(b) when the entire cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income with respect 
to that discontinued hedging relationship has been reclassified to profit or loss. 
102L An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 102 F: 
(a) to a hedged item, when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no longer 
present with respect to the hedged risk or the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-
based cash flows of the hedged item; and 
(b) to a hedging instrument, when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no 
longer present with respect to the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash 
flows of the hedging instrument. 
 
If  the hedging relationship that the hedged item and the hedging instrument are part of is discontinued 
earlier than the date specified in paragraph 102L(a) or the dat e specified in paragraph 102L(b), the entity 
shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 102F to that hedging relationship at the dat e of 
discontinuation. 
 
102M An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 102 G to a hedging relationship at the earlier 
of: 
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no longer present with respect 
to the hedged risk and the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows 
of the hedged item or of the hedging instrument; and 
(b) when the hedging relationship to which the exception is applied is discontinued. 
 
102N When designating a group of items as the hedged item, or a  combination of financial instruments as the 
hedging instrument, an entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraphs 102D–102G to an individual 
item or financial instrument in accordance with paragraphs 102J , 102K, 102L, or 102M, as relevant, 
when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark refor m is no longer present with respect to the 
hedged risk and/or the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of that 
item or financial instrument. 
 
Effective date and transition 
... 
108G Interest Rate Benchmark Reform , which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39 and SLFRS 7, issued in September 
2019, added paragraphs 102A–102N. An entity shall apply these amendments for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2020. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies these amendments for an 
earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. An entity shall ap ply these amendments retrospectively to 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    7A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the reporting period in which an entity first 
applies these amendments or were designated thereafter, and to the gain or loss recognised in other 
comprehensive income that existed at the beginning of the reporting period in which an entity first applies 
these amendments. 
 
Amendments to SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 
 
Paragraphs 24H and 44DE –44DF are added and a subheading is added before paragraph 24H. 
These paragraphs have not been underlined for ease of reading. 
 
Hedge accounting 
… 
 Uncertainty arising from in terest rate benchmark reform 
24H For hedging relationships to which an entity applies the ex ceptions set out in paragraphs 6.8.4–6.8.12 of 
SLFRS 9 or paragraphs 102D–102N of LKAS 39, an entity shall disclose: 
(a) the significant interest rate benchmarks to which the entity’s hedging relationships are exposed; 
(b) the extent of the risk exposure the entity manages that is dire ctly affected by the interest rate 
benchmark reform; 
(c) how the entity is managing the process to transition to alternative benchmark rates; 
(d) a description of significant assumptions or judgements the entity made in applying these paragraphs 
(for example, assumptions or judgements about when the uncertainty arising from interest rate 
benchmark reform is no longer present with respect to the timing and the amount of the interest rate 
benchmark-based cash flows); and 
(e) the nominal amount of the hedging instruments in those hedg ing relationships. 
 
Effective date and transition 
  
 ...  
44DE Interest Rate Benchmark Reform , which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39 and SLFRS 7, issued in September 
2019, added paragraphs 24H and 44DF. An entity shall apply thes e amendments when it applies the 
amendments to SLFRS 9 or LKAS 39. 
44DF In the reporting period in which an entity first applies Interest Rate Benchmark Reform , issued in 
September 2019, an entity is not required to present the quantitative information required by paragraph 
28(f) of LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. 
 
Amendments to the Basis for Conclusions on SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
This Basis for Conclusions accompanies, but is not part, of SLFRS 9. 
 
After paragraph BC6.545, new headings and paragraphs BC6.546–BC6.603 are added. 
 
Hedge accounting (Chapter 6) 
 … 

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 Amendments for Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (September 2019) 
BC6.546 Interest rate benchmarks such as interbank offered rate s (IBORs) play an important role in global 
financial markets. These interest rate benchmarks index trillions of dollars and other currencies in a 
wide variety of financial products, from derivatives to residen tial mortgages. However, cases of 
attempted market manipulation of some interest rate benchmarks, together with the post-crisis decline 
in liquidity in interbank unsecured funding markets, have undermined confidence in the reliability 
and robustness of some interest rate benchmarks. Against this background, the G20 asked the Financial 
Stability Board (FSB) to undertake a fundamental review of majo r interest rate benchmarks. 
Following the review, the FSB published a report setting out its recommended reforms of some major 
interest rate benchmarks such as IBORs. Public authorities in many jurisdictions have since taken steps to 
implement those recommendations. In some jurisdictions, there is already clear progress towards the 
reform of interest rate benchmarks, or the replacement of interest rate benchmarks with alternative, 
nearly risk-free interest rates that are based, to a greater ex tent, on transaction data (alternative 
benchmark rates). This has in turn led to uncertainty about the long-term viability of some interest rate 
benchmarks. In these amendments, the term ‘interest rate benchmark reform’ refers to the market-wide 
reform of an interest rate benchmark including its replacement with an alternative benchmark rate, 
such as that resulting from the FSB’s recommendations set out in its July 2014 report ‘Reforming M a j o r  
Interest Rate Benchmarks’ (the reform).3 
BC6.547 In 2018 the LKASB noted the increasing levels of uncert ainty about the long- term viability of some 
interest rate benchmarks and decided to address as a priority the issues affecting financial reporting in 
the period before the reform (referred to as pre-replacement issues). 
BC6.548 As part of the pre-replacement issues, the LKASB consid ered the implications for specific hedge 
accounting requirements in SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39, which require f orward-looking analysis. As a 
result of the reform, contractual cash flows of hedged items and hedging instruments based on an 
existing interest rate benchmark will likely change when that interest rate benchmark is subject to the 
reform—in these amendments, contractual cash flows encompass both contractually specified and 
non-contractually specified cash flows. The same uncertainty arising from the reform regarding the 
timing and the amount of future cash flows will likely affect the changes in fair value of hedged items 
and hedging instruments in a fair value hedge of the interest rate benchmark exposure. Until decisions are 
made about what the alternative benchmark rate is, and when and how the reform will occur, including 
specifying its effects on particular contracts, uncertainties w ill exist regarding the timing and the 
amount of future cash flows of the hedged item and the hedging instrument. 
 
BC6.549 The council of CA Sri Lanka noted that the hedge accoun t i n g  r e q u i r e me n t s  i n  S L F R S  9  a n d  L K A S  39 
provide a clear basis for accounting for such uncertainties. In  applying these requirements, the 
uncertainties about the timing and the amount of future cash flows could affect an entity’s ability to 
meet those specific forward- looking hedge accounting requirements in the period when uncertainty 
is created by the reform. In some cases, solely due to such uncert ainties, entities could be required to 
discontinue hedge accounting for hedging relationships that wou ld otherwise qualify for hedge 
accounting. Also, because of the uncertainties arising from the  reform, entities may not be able to 
designate new hedging relationships that would otherwise qualif y for hedge accounting applying 
SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39. In some cases, discontinuation of hedge  accounting would require an entity 
to recognise gains or losses in profit or loss. 
 
BC6.550 In the council of CA Sri Lanka’s  view, discontinuation of hedge accounting solely due to such 
uncertainties before the reform’s economic effects on hedged it ems and hedging instruments are 
known would not provide useful information to users of financial statements. Therefore, the council 
of CA Sri Lanka decided to publish in May 
2019 the Exposure Draft Interest Rate Benchmark Reform 
                                                           
3  The report, 'Reforming Major Interest Rate Benchmarks', is avai lable at http://www.fsb.org/wp- content/uploads/r_140722.pdf. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    9A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
(2019 Exposure Draft), which proposed exceptions to SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39 to provide relief during 
this period of uncertainty. 
 
BC6.551 The 2019 Exposure Draft proposed exceptions to specific  hedge accounting 
requirements such that 
entities would apply those requirements assuming the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged risk 
and/or cash flows of the hedged item or of the hedging instrument ar e  b a sed  is  no t alter ed  a s a  r esult  o f  
the reform. The proposed exceptions applied only to the hedge accounting requirements specified in 
that Exposure Draft and were not intended to provide relief fro m all consequences arising from the 
reform. 
BC6.552 Almost all respondents to the 2019 Exposure Draft agree d with the council of CA Sri Lanka’s 
decision to address pre-replacement issues. Many highlighted th e urgency of these issues, especially in 
some jurisdictions where there is already clear progress towards the reform or replacement of interest 
rate benchmarks with alternative benchmark rates. 
BC6.553 In September 2019 the council of CA Sri Lanka amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39 and SLFRS 7 by issuing 
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform , which confirmed with modifications the proposals in the 2019 
Exposure Draft. In the amendments issued in September 2019, the  council of CA Sri Lanka added 
paragraphs 6.8.1–6.8.12 and 7.1.8 to SLFRS 9 and amended paragraph 7.2.26 of SLFRS 9. 
BC6.554 The council of CA Sri Lanka decided to propose amendments to LKAS 39 as well as SLFRS 9 because 
when entities first apply SLFRS 9, they are permitted to choose  as an accounting policy to continue to 
apply the hedge accounting requirements of LKAS 39. The council of CA Sri Lanka understands that 
a significant number of SLFRS preparers —financial institutions in particular—have made such an 
accounting policy choice. 
 Scope of the exceptions 
BC6.555 In  the 2019 Exposure Draft, the council of CA Sri Lanka noted that the hedge accounting issues being 
addressed arise in the context o f interest rate benchmark refor m, and, therefore, the proposed 
exceptions would apply only to hedging relationships of interest rate risk that are affected by the 
reform. However, some respondents expressed the view that the scope of the exceptions, as set out in 
the 2019 Exposure Draft, would not include other types of hedgi ng relationships that may be 
affected by uncertainties arising from the reform such as hedgi ng relationships in which an entity 
designates cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to both foreign currency and interest 
rate risk. These respondents asked the council of CA Sri Lanka to clarify whether the scope of the 
exceptions was meant to include such hedging relationships. 
BC6.556 In  its  redeliberations on the 2019 Exposure Draft, the council of CA Sri Lanka clarified that it did not 
intend to exclude from the scope of the amendments hedging rela tionships in which interest rate 
risk is not the only designated hedged risk. The council of CA Sri Lanka agreed with respondents that 
other hedging relationships could be directly affected by the reform when the reform gives rise t o 
uncertainties about the timing or the amount of interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of the hedged 
item or of the hedging instrument. Therefore, the council of CA  S r i  L a n k a  c o n f i r m e d  t h a t  t h e  
exceptions would apply to the interest rate benchmark- based ca sh flows in these situations. The 
council of CA Sri Lanka noted that many derivatives, designated in hedging relationships in which there 
is no uncertainty about the timing or the amount of interest rate benchmark-based cash flows, could be 
indirectly affected by the reform. For example, this would be t he case when the valuation of the 
derivatives is affected by general uncertainty in the market caused by the reform. The council of CA 
Sri Lanka confirmed that the exceptions do not apply to these h edging relationships, despite the 
indirect effect the uncertainties arising from the reform could have on the valuation of derivatives. 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
BC6.557 Consequently, the council of CA Sri Lanka clarified the  wording in paragraph 6.8.1 of SLFRS 9 to 
refer to all hedging relationships that are directly affected b y interest rate benchmark reform. 
Paragraph 6.8.1 of SLFRS 9 explains that a hedging relationship  is directly affected by interest rate 
benchmark reform only if the reform gives rise to uncertainties  about the interest rate benchmark 
(contractually or non-contractually specified) designated as a hedged risk and/or the timing or the 
amount of interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of the hedged item or of the hedging instrument. The 
scope of the exceptions does not exclude hedging relationships in which interest rate risk is not the 
only hedged risk. 
 
Highly probable requirement 
BC6.558 The council of CA Sri Lanka noted that, if an entity de signates a forecast transaction as the hedged 
item in a cash flow hedge, applying paragraph 6.3.3 of SLFRS 9,  that transaction must be highly 
probable (highly probable requirement). This requirement is intended to ensure that changes in the fair 
value of designated hedging instruments are recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve only for those 
hedged forecast transactions that are highly probable to occur.  This requirement is an important 
discipline in applying hedge accounting to forecast transactions. The council of CA Sri Lanka noted 
that the requirements in SLFRS 9 provide a clear basis to account for the effects of the reform—that is, 
if the effects of the reform are such that the hedged cash flows are no longer highly probable, hedge 
accounting should be discontinued. As set out in paragraph BC6.550, in the council of CA Sri Lanka’s  
view, discontinuing all affected hedging relationships solely due to such uncertainty would not provide 
useful information to users of financial statements. 
BC6.559 Therefore, the council of CA Sri Lanka amended SLFRS 9 to provide an exception to the highly 
probable requirement that would provide targeted relief during this period of uncertainty. More 
specifically, applying the exception, if the hedged future cash  flows are based on an interest rate 
benchmark that is subject to the reform, an entity assumes that the interest rate benchmark on which 
the hedged cash flows are based is not altered when assessing whether the future cash flows are highly 
probable. If the hedged future cash flows are based on a highly probable forecast transaction, by 
applying the exception in paragraph 6.8.4 of SLFRS 9 when perfo rming the assessment of the 
highly probable requirement for that forecast transaction, the entity would assume that the interest rate 
benchmark on which the hedged cash flows are based will not be altered in the future contract as a 
result of the reform. For example, for a future issuance of a London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)- 
referenced debt instrument, the entity would assume that the LI BOR benchmark rate on which the 
h e d g e d  c a s h  f l o ws  a r e  b a s e d  wi l l  n o t  b e  a lte r ed  a s  a  r e s u l t  o f  the reform. 
 
BC6.560 The council of CA Sri Lanka noted that this exception d oes not necessarily result in an entity 
determining that the hedged cash flows are highly probable. In the example described in paragraph 
BC6.559, the entity assumed that the interest rate benchmark in  the future contract would not be 
altered as a result of the reform when determining whether that  forecast transaction is highly 
probable. However, if the entity decides not to issue the debt instrument because of uncertainty 
arising from the reform or for any other reason, the hedged future cash flows are no longer highly 
probable (and are no longer expected to occur). The exception would not permit or require the entity 
to assume otherwise. In this case, the entity would conclude that the LIBOR- based cash flows are no 
longer highly probable (and are no longer expected to occur) 
 
BC6.561 The council of CA Sri Lanka also included an exception for discontinued hedging relationships. 
Applying this exception, any amount remaining in the cash flow hedge reserve when a hedging 
relationship is discontinued would be reclassified to profit or loss in the same period(s) during which 
the hedged cash flows affect profit or loss, based on the assumption that the interest rate benchmark on 
which the hedged cash flows are based is not altered as a result of the reform. If, however, the hedged 
future cash flows are no longer expected to occur for other reasons, the entity is required to immediately 
reclassify to profit or loss any amount remaining in the cash f low hedge reserve.  In addition, the 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    11A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
exception would not exempt entities from reclassifying the amount that is not expected to be recovered 
into profit or loss as required by paragraph 6.5.11(d)(iii) of SLFRS 9. 
 
Assessment of the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging 
instrument 
 
BC6.562 Applying SLFRS 9, a hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting only if there is an economic 
relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. 
 
BC6.563 Demonstrating the existence of an economic relationship  requires the estimation of future cash 
flows because the assessment is prospective in nature. Interest rate benchmark reform could affect 
this assessment for hedging relationships that may extend beyon d the timing of the reform. That is 
because entities would have to consider possible changes to the fair value or 
future cash flows of hedged 
items and hedging instruments to assess whether an economic relationship continues to exist between 
the hedged item and hedging instrument. Consequently, at some p oint in time, it is possible that 
entities would not be able to demonstrate the existence of an e conomic relationship solely because 
of uncertainties arising from the reform. 
 
BC6.564 The council of CA Sri Lanka considered the usefulness o f the information that would result from the 
potential discontinuation of hedge accounting for affected hedg ing relationships and decided to 
amend the requirements in SLFRS 9 to provide an exception for assessing the economic relationship 
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument for the same reasons discussed in paragraph 
BC6.550. 
 
BC6.565 Applying this exception, an entity shall assess whether  the economic relationship as required by 
paragraph 6.4.1(c)(i) of SLFRS 9 exists based on the assumption that the hedged risk or the interest rate 
benchmark on which the hedged item or the hedging instrument is based is not altered as a result of the 
reform. Similarly, if an entity designates a highly probable fo recast transaction as the hedged item, 
the entity shall perform the assessment based on the assumption that the interest rate benchmark on 
which the hedged cash flows are based will not change as a result of the reform. 
 
BC6.556 The council of CA Sri Lanka noted that an offset betwee n the hedged item and the hedging 
instrument is a fundamental principle of the hedge accounting m odel in SLFRS 9 and, therefore, the 
council of CA Sri Lanka considered it critical to maintain this  principle. The exception addresses only 
the uncertainties arising from the reform. Therefore, if an entity is unable to demonstrate the existence 
of an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument for other reasons, the 
entity shall discontinue hedge accounting as required by SLFRS 9. 
 
Measurement of ineffectiveness 
BC6.567 The council of CA Sri Lanka noted that the exceptions w ere not intended to change the requirement 
that entities measure and recognise hedge ineffectiveness. The council of CA Sri Lanka considered 
that the actual results of the hedging relationships would prov ide useful information to users of 
financial statements during the period of uncertainty arising from the reform. Therefore, the council 
of CA Sri Lanka decided that entities should continue to measure and recognise hedge ineffectiveness 
as required by SLFRS Standards. 
 
BC6.568 The council of CA Sri Lanka also considered whether any  exceptions should be made to the 
measurement of hedged items or hedging instruments because of t he uncertainty arising from the 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
reform. However, the council of CA Sri Lanka noted that such an exception would be inconsistent 
with the decision not to change the requirements to measure and recognise hedge ineffectiveness in the 
financial statements. Therefore, the council of CA Sri Lanka decided not t o  p r o v i d e  a n  e x c e p t i o n  f r o m  
the measurement of hedging instruments and hedged items. This means that the fair value of a derivative 
designated as the hedging instrument should continue to be meas ured using the assumptions that 
market participants would use when pricing that derivative as r equired by SLFRS 13 Fair Value 
Measurement. 
 
BC6.569 For a hedged item designated in a fair value hedge, SLFRS 9 requires an entity to remeasure the hedged 
item for changes in fair value attributable to the hedged risk and recognise the gain or loss related 
to that fair value hedge adjustment in profit or loss. In doing so, the entity uses the assumptions that 
market participants would use when pricing the hedged item for changes in fair value attributable to the 
hedged risk. This would include a risk premium for uncertainty inherent in the hedged risk that market 
participants would consider. For example, to measure changes in fair value attributable to the hedged 
risk such as the IBOR component of a fixed-rate loan, an entity needs to reflect the uncertainty caused 
by the reform. When applying a present value technique to calcu late the changes in fair value 
attributable to the designated risk component, such measurement should reflect market participants’ 
assumptions about the uncertainty arising from the reform. 
 
BC6.570 When an entity designates interest rate benchmark-based cash flows as the hedged item in a cash flow 
hedge, to calculate the change in the value of the hedged item for the purpose of measuring hedge 
ineffectiveness, the entity may use a derivative that would have terms that match the critical terms of 
the designated cash flows and the hedged risk (this is commonly  referred to a s  a ‘hypothetical 
derivative’). As the council of CA Sri Lanka decided that entities should co ntinue 
to measure and 
recognise hedge ineffectiveness as required by SLFRS Standards,  entities should continue to apply 
assumptions that are consistent with those applied to the hedged risk of the hedged item. For example, 
if an entity designated interest rate benchmark-based cash flow s as the hedged item in a cash flow 
hedge, the entity would not assume for the purpose of measuring  hedge ineffectiveness that the 
expected replacement of the interest rate benchmark with an alternative benchmark rate will result in 
zero cash flows after the replacement. The hedging gain or loss on the hedged item should be measured 
using the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows (that is, the cash flows on which the hypothetical 
derivative is based) when applying a present value technique, d iscounted at a market-based 
discount rate that reflects market participants’ assumptions ab out the uncertainty arising from the 
reform. The council of CA Sri Lanka concluded that reflecting m arket participants’ ass umptions 
when measuring hedge ineffectiveness provides useful information to users of financial statements 
about the effects of the uncertainty arising from the reform on  an entity’s hedging relationships. 
Therefore, the council of CA Sri Lanka decided that no exceptions are needed for the measurement 
of actual ineffectiveness. 
 
Hedges of risk components 
BC6.571 The council of CA Sri Lanka noted that in accordance wi th SLFRS 9 an entity may designate an item 
in its entirety or a component of an item as the hedged item in a hedging relationship. For example, an 
entity that issues a 5-year floating-rate debt instrument that bears interest at 3-month LIBOR + 1%, could 
designate as the hedged item either the entire debt instrument (that is, all of the cash flows) or only the 3-
month LIBOR risk component of the floating-rate debt instrument . Specifically, paragraph 6.3.7(a) of 
SLFRS 9 allows entities to designate only changes in the cash flows or fair value of an item attributable 
to a specific risk or risks (risk component) provided that the risk component is separately identifiable 
and reliably measurable. 
BC6.572 The council of CA Sri Lanka observed that an entity’s ability to conclude that an interest rate 
benchmark is a separately identifiable component in accordance with paragraph 6.3.7(a) of SLFRS 
9 requires a continuous assessment over the duration of the hedging relationship and could be affected 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    13A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
by the reform. For example, if the outcome of the reform affects the market structure of an interest 
rate benchmark, it could affect an entity’s assessment of whether a non-contractually specified LIBOR 
component is separately identifiable and, therefore, an eligible hedged item in a hedging relationship. 
The council of CA Sri Lanka considered only risk components that are implicit in the fair value or the 
cash flows of an item of which they are a part (referred to as non-contractually specified) because 
t h e  s a m e  i s s u e  d o e s  n o t  a r i s e  f o r  r i s k  c o m p o n e n t s  t h a t  a r e  e x p licitly specified in the contract. 
BC6.573 For the reasons outlined in paragraph BC6.550, the coun cil of CA Sri Lanka noted that 
discontinuing hedging relationships due to uncertainty arising from the reform would not provide 
useful information. Consequently, the council of CA Sri Lanka decided to propose amending SLFRS 9 
so that entities would not discontinue hedge accounting solely because the risk component is no 
longer separately identifiable as a result of the reform. In the 2019 Exposure Draft, the council of CA 
Sri Lanka proposed that the separately identifiable requirement  for hedges of the benchmark 
component of interest rate risk be applied only at the inception of those hedging relationships affected 
by the reform. 
BC6.574 The council of CA Sri Lanka proposed not to extend the relief to allow entities to designate the 
benchmark component of interest rate risk as the hedged item in  a new hedging relationship if the 
risk component is not separately identifiable at the inception of the hedging relationship. In the council 
of CA Sri Lanka’s v iew, allowing hedge accounting for risk components that are not  separately 
identifiable at the inception would be inconsistent with the objective of the exception. The council of 
CA Sri Lanka noted that such circumstances are different from a llowing continued designation as 
the hedged item for risk components that had met the requiremen t at the inception of the hedging 
relationship. 
BC6.575 Furthermore, the council of CA Sri Lanka did not propos e any exception from the requirement that 
changes in the fair value or cash flows of the risk component must be reliably measurable. As noted 
in paragraph BC6.566, in the council of CA Sri Lanka’s  view, an offset between the hedged item and 
the hedging instrument is a fundamental principle of the hedge accounting model in SLFRS 9 and, 
therefore, the council of CA Sri Lanka considered reliable measurement of the hedged item and the 
hedging instrument to be critical to maintain this principle. 
BC6.576 Almost all respondents agreed with the exception propos ed in the 2019 Exposure Draft to apply the 
separately identifiable requirement only at the inception of a hedging relationship. However, some 
respondents noted that the proposed exception did not provide e quivalent relief to hedging 
relationships that frequently reset (ie discontinue and restart ). In those hedging relationships both 
the hedging instrument and the hedged item frequently change (ie the entity uses a dynamic process 
in which both the hedged items and the hedging instruments used  to manage that exposure do not 
remain the same for long). As hedging instruments and hedged items are being added or removed from 
a portfolio, entities are de-designating and redesignating hedging relationships regularly to adjust the 
exposure. If each redesignation of the hedging relationship is considered to be the inception of a new 
hedging relationship (even though it is still the same hedging strategy), then the separately identifiable 
requirement would need to be assessed for all hedged items at each redesignation even if they have been 
assessed previously. For the same reasons as those noted in paragraph BC6.572, this could affect an entity’s 
ability to conclude that a non-contractually specified risk com ponent remains separately identifiable 
and, therefore, an eligible hedged item for hedge accounting purposes. 
BC6.577 The council of CA Sri Lanka noted that the exception pr oposed in the 2019 Exposure Draft has the 
effect that if a non-contractually specified risk component mee ts the separately identifiable 
requirement at the inception of a hedging relationship, then that requirement would not be reassessed 
subsequently. Hence, providing a similar exception for hedging relationships that frequently reset (ie 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
discontinue and restart) would be consistent with the objective of the exception originally provided 
in the 2019 Exposure Draft. 
BC6.578 Thus, the council of CA Sri Lanka confirmed the proposa l that a risk component is only required to be 
separately identifiable at the inception of the hedging relatio nship. In addition, to respond to the 
feedback described in paragraph BC6.576, the council of CA Sri Lanka added the exception in paragraph 
6.8.8 of SLFRS 9 for hedging relationships that, consistent wit h an entity’s hedge documentation, 
frequently reset (ie discontinue and restart) because both the hedging instrument an d the hedged item 
frequently change. Applying that paragraph, an entity shall determine whether the risk component is 
separately identifiable only when it initially designates an it em as a hedged item in the hedging 
relationship. The hedged item is not reassessed at any subsequent redesignation in the same hedging 
relationship. 
BC6.579 In reaching its decision for the exception in paragraph 6.8.8 of SLFRS 9 the council of CA Sri Lanka 
considered an example where an entity uses a dynamic process to manage interest rate risk as discussed 
in paragraph B6.5.24(b) of SLFRS 9 and designates the LIBOR risk component of floating-rate loans as 
the hedged risk. At the inception of the relationship, the entity assesses whether LIBO R is a separately 
identifiable risk component for all loans designated within the  hedging relationship. As the entity 
updates the risk position with the origination of new loans and the maturity or repayment of existing 
loans, the hedging relationship is adjusted by de-designating t he ‘old’ hedging relationship and 
redesignating a ‘new’ hedging relationship for the updated amount of the hedged items. Applying the 
exception in paragraph 6.8.8 of SLFRS 9 requires the entity to assess whether LIBOR is a separately 
identifiable risk component only for the new loans added to the hedging relationship. The entity  
would not reassess the separately identifiable requirement for the loans that have been redesignated. 
Mandatory application 
 
BC6.580 The council of CA Sri Lanka decided to require entities  to apply the exceptions in Section 6.8 of 
SLFRS 9 to all hedging relationships to which the exceptions ar e applicable. In other words, the 
council of CA Sri Lanka decided that an entity is required to a pply the exceptions to all hedging 
relationships that are directly affected by the uncertainties a rising from the reform and continue to 
apply the exceptions until required to cease their application as specified in paragraphs 6.8.9–6.8.12 of 
SLFRS 9. 
BC6.581 The council of CA Sri Lanka considered but rejected alt ernatives that would have allowed entities to apply 
the exceptions voluntarily. In the council of CA Sri Lanka’s  view, voluntary application of these 
exceptions could give rise to selective discontinuation of hedg e accounting and selective 
reclassification of the amounts recorded in other comprehensive  income related to previously 
discontinued hedging relationships. The council of CA Sri Lanka  does not expect that requiring 
entities to apply the exceptions would entail significant cost for preparers and other affected parties 
because the exceptions require entities to assume that the interest rate benchmark, on which the hedged 
risk and the hedged cash flows, and cash flows of the hedging instrument are based, is not altered as 
a result of the reform. 
BC6.582 In addition, the council of CA Sri Lanka observed that in some circumstances, the exceptions in 
Section 6.8 of SLFRS 9 may not be applicable. For example, for a particular interest rate benchmark 
not subject to the reform or replacement with an alternative be nchmark rate, there is no uncertainty 
affecting the timing or the amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows arising from a 
hedged item or a hedging instrument. The exceptions set out in Section 6.8 of SLFRS 9 would not be 
applicable to such a hedging relationship. 
 
BC6.583 Furthermore, for a particular hedging relationship the exceptions may be applicable to some but not 
all aspects of the hedging relationship. For example, if an entity designates a hedged item that is based 
on LIBOR against a hedging instrument that is already referenced to an alternative benchmark rate 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    15A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
(assuming the entity can demonstrate that hedging relationship meets the qualifying criteria for hedge 
accounting in SLFRS 9), the exceptions in paragraphs 6.8.4 and 6 . 8 . 6  o f  S L F R S  9  w o u l d  a p p l y  f o r  t h e  
hedged item because there is uncertaint y related to its future c a s h  f l o w s .  H o w e v e r ,  t h e r e  i s  n o  
uncertainty regarding how the reform would impact the cash flow s of the hedging instrument and, 
therefore, the exception in paragraph 6.8.6 of SLFRS 9 is not applicable for the hedging instrument. 
Similarly, the exception applicable to non-contractually specified components would not be relevant 
for hedging relationships that do not involve the designation o f non- contractually specified risk 
components. 
 
End of application 
 
BC6.584 As described in paragraph  BC6.550, the council of CA Sr i Lanka decided to amend SLFRS 9 to 
address specific aspects of hedge accounting affected by uncertainties in relation to the hedged items 
and hedging instruments about when the interest rate benchmarks  will change to alternative benchmark 
rates, when any spread adjustment between the interest rate benchmark and the alternative benchmark 
rate will be determined (collectively, timing) and what the cas h flows based on the alternative 
benchmark rate will be, including their frequency of reset, and any spread adjustment between the 
interest rate benchmark and the alternative benchmark rate (col lectively, amount). Therefore, the 
council of CA Sri Lanka intended the exceptions set out in Section 6.8 of SLFRS 9 to be available only 
while these uncertainties are present. 
BC6.585 The council of CA Sri Lanka considered whether to provi de an explicit end date for the exceptions 
but decided not to do so. The reform is following different tim elines in different markets and 
jurisdictions and contracts are being modified at different times and, therefore, at this stage, it is not 
possible to define a period of applicability for the exceptions 
 
BC6.586 The council of CA Sri Lanka decided that an entity ceas es applying the exceptions at the earlier of 
(a) when the uncertainty regarding the timing and the amount of interest rate benchmark-based cash 
flows is no longer present as it relates to a hedged item and/or hedging instrument (depending on the 
particular exception) and (b) the discontinuation of the hedging relationship.4 The exceptions require 
entities to apply specific hedge accounting requirements assumi ng the interest rate benchmark on 
which the hedged risk, hedged cash flows or the cash flows of the hedging instrument are based is not 
altered as a result of the reform. The end of applicability of the exceptions means that entities would from 
that date apply all hedge accounting requirements in SLFRS 9 without applying these exceptions. 
 
BC6.587 In the council of CA Sri Lanka’s view, for uncertainty regarding the timing and the amount of cash 
flows arising from a change in an interest rate benchmark to be eliminated, the underlying contracts 
are generally required to be amended to specify the timing and the amount of cash flows based on the 
alternative benchmark rate (and any spread adjustment between t he interest rate benchmark and the 
alternative benchmark rate). The council of CA Sri Lanka noted that, in some cases, a contract may be 
amended to include reference to the alternative benchmark rate without actually altering the interest 
rate benchmark-based cash flows in the contract. Such an amendment may not eliminate  t h e  
uncertainty regarding the timing and the amount of interest rat e benchmark- based cash flows in the 
contract. The council of CA Sri Lanka considered the following scenarios to assess the robustness of 
the end of application requirements. However, these scenarios are not exhaustive and other scenarios 
                                                           
4  or   the  purpose  of  applying  the   exception  in paragraph 6.8.5 of  SLFRS 9  to  a discontinued  hedging relationship, the amendments  require 
a n  e n t i t y  t o  c e a s e  a p p l y i n g  t h e  e x c e p t i o n  a t  t h e  e a r l i e r  of (a) as described above and (b) when the entire amount accumulated in the cash 
flow hedge reserve with respect to the hedging relationship has been reclassified to profit or loss. See paragraph 6.8.10 of SLFRS 9. 

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
may exist in which the uncertainties arising from the reform regarding the timing and the amount of cash 
flows would no longer be present. 
 
BC6.588 Scenario A —a contract is amended to include a clause that specifies (a) th e date the interest rate 
benchmark will be replaced by an alternative benchmark rate and (b) the alternative benchmark rate 
on which the cash flows will be based and the relevant spread adjustment between the interest rate 
benchmark and the alternative benchmark rate. In this case, the  uncertainty regarding the timing 
and the amount of cash flows for this contract is eliminated when the contract is amended to include 
this clause. 
 
BC6.589 Scenario B —a contract is amended to include a clause that states modifications of contractual cash 
flows will occur due to the reform but that specifies neither the date that the interest rate benchmark 
will be replaced nor the alternative benchmark rate on which the amended cash flows will be based. In 
this case, the uncertainty regarding the timing and the amount of cash flows for this contract has not 
been eliminated by amending the contract to include this clause. 
 
BC6.590 Scenario C —a contract is amended to include a clause which states that con ditions specifying the 
amount and timing of interest rate benchmark- based cash flows will be determined by a central 
authority at some point in the future. But the clause does not specify those conditions. In this case, the 
uncertainty regarding the timing and the amount of the interest  rate benchmark-based cash flows 
for this contract has not been eliminated by including this cla use in the contract. Uncertainty 
regarding both the timing and the amount of cash flows for this  contract will be present until the 
central authority specifies when the replacement of the benchmark will become effective, and what 
the alternative benchmark rate and any related spread adjustment will be. 
BC6.591 Scenario D —a contract is amended to include a clause in anticipation of the reform that specifies the 
date the interest rate benchmark will be replaced and any sprea d adjustment between the interest 
rate benchmark and the alternative benchmark rate will be deter mined. However, the amendment 
does not specify the alternative b enchmark rate, or the spread adjustment between the interest rate 
benchmark and the alternative benchmark rate, on which the cash flows will be based. In this scenario, by 
amending the contract to include this clause, uncertainty regarding the timing has be en eliminated 
but uncertainty about the amount remains. 
 
BC6.592 Scenario E —a contract is amended to include a clause in anticipation of the reform that specifies the 
alternative benchmark rate on which the cash flows will be based and the spread adjustment between the 
interest rate benchmark and the alternative benchmark rate, but does not specify the date from which the 
amendment to the contract will become effective. In this scenar io, by amending the contract to 
include this clause, uncertainty about the amount has been eliminated but uncertainty with respect to 
timing remains. 
 
BC6.593 Scenario F —in preparation for the reform, a central authority in its capacity as the administrator of an 
interest rate benchmark undertakes a multi-step process to replace an interest rate benchmark with an 
alternative benchmark rate. The objective of the reform is to cease the publication o f the current 
interest rate benchmark and replace it with an alternative benc hmark rate. As part of the reform, the 
administrator introduces an interim benchmark rate and determines a fixed spread adjustment based 
on the difference between the interim benchmark rate and the cu rrent interest rate benchmark. 
Uncertainty about the timing or the amount of the alternative b enchmark rate-based cash flows will 
not be eliminated during the interim period because the interim benchmark rate (including the fixed 
spread adjustment determined by the administrator) represent an interim measure in progressing towards 
the reform but it does not represent the alternative benchmark rate (or any related spread adjustment 
agreed between parties to the contract). 
 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    17A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
BC6.594 For reasons similar to those described in paragraph BC6.583, th e council of CA Sri Lanka noted that 
there could be situations in which the uncertainty for particul ar elements of a single hedging  
relationship could end at different times. For example, assume an entity is required to apply the relevant 
exceptions to both the hedged item and the hedging instrument. If the hedging instrument in that 
hedging relationship is subsequently amended through market protocols covering all derivatives in that 
market, and will be based on an alternative benchmark rate such that the uncertainty about the timing 
and the amount of interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of the hedging instrument is eliminated, 
the relevant exceptions would continue to apply to the hedged item but would no longer apply to the 
hedging instrument.5 
 
BC6.595 The council of CA Sri Lanka observed that continuing to  apply the exception after the uncertainty 
was resolved would not faithfully represent the actual characteristics of the elements of the hedging 
relationship in which the uncertainty arising from the reform i s eliminated. The council of CA Sri 
Lanka considered whether it should extend the relief provided such that the exceptions would apply 
at the hedging relationship level for as long as any element of that hedging relationship was affected 
by the uncertainties arising from the reform. The council of CA  Sri Lanka agreed that doing so 
would be beyond the objective of addressing only those issues d irectly affected by the uncertainty 
arising from the reform. This is also because the exceptions in  paragraphs 6.8.4 –6.8.12 of SLFRS 
9 and the respective requirements in SLFRS 9 apply to the same elements of the hedging 
relationship. Therefore, applying each exception at the hedging  relationship level would be 
inconsistent with how the underlying requirements are applied. 
 
BC6.596 The council of CA Sri Lanka decided that the end of app lication requirement would also apply to 
hedges of a forecast transaction. The council of CA Sri Lanka n oted that SLFRS 9 requires an entity to 
identify and document a forecast transaction with sufficient specificity so that, when the transaction 
occurs, the entity is able to determine whether the transaction is the hedged transaction. For example, if 
an entity designates a future issuance of a LIBOR-based debt in strument as the hedged item, 
although there may be no contract at the time of designation, the hedge documentation would refer 
specifically to LIBOR. Consequently, the council of CA Sri Lank a concluded that entities should 
be able to identify when the uncertainty regarding the timing a nd the amount of the resulting cash 
flows of a forecast transaction is no longer present. 
 
BC6.597 In addition, the council of CA Sri Lanka decided not to  require end of application with respect to the 
exception for the separately identifiable requirements set out in paragraphs 6.8.7 and 6.8.8 of SLFRS 
9. Applying these exceptions, entities would continue applying hedge accounting when an interest rate 
benchmark meets the separately identifiable requirement at the inception of the hedging relationship 
(assuming all other hedge accounting requirements continue to be met). If the council of CA Sri Lanka 
included an end date for these exceptions, an entity may be required to immediately discontinue hedge 
accounting because, at some point, as the reform progresses, the component based on the interest rate 
benchmark may no longer be separately identifiable (for example , as the market for the alternative 
benchmark rate is established). Such immediate discontinuation of hedge accounting would be 
inconsistent with the objective of the exception. The council of CA Sri Lanka noted that linking the end 
of application for these exceptions to contract amendments would not achieve the council of CA Sri 
Lanka’s intention either because, by definition, non-contractually specified risk  components are not 
explicitly stated in a contract and, therefore, these contracts may not be amended for the reform. This is 
                                                           
5  In this scenario, the entity would first consider the account ing consequences of amending the contractual terms of the hedgi ng 
instrument. The council of CA Sri Lanka will consider the accounting consequences of the actual amendment of financial instruments 
as a result of interest rate benchmark reform in the next phase of this project (ie the replacement phase) 

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
particularly relevant for fair value hedges of a fixed-rate debt instrument. Therefore, the council of CA 
Sri Lanka decided that an entity should cease applying the exceptions to a hedging relationship only 
when the hedging relationship is discontinued applying SLFRS 9 
 
BC6.598 Some respondents to the 2019 Exposure Draft noted that the council of CA Sri Lanka had not 
addressed when an entity ceases applying the proposed exceptions to a group of items designated as the 
hedged item or a combination of financial instruments designate d as the hedging instrument. 
Specifically, when assessing whether the uncertainty arising fr om the reform is no longer present, 
these respondents asked whether that assessment should be performed on an individual basis (that is, 
for each individual item within the group or financial instrume nt within the combination) or on a 
group basis (that is, for all items in the group or all financi al instruments in the combination until 
there is no uncertainty surrounding any of the items or financial instruments). 
 
BC6.599 Consequently, the council of CA Sri Lanka decided to add paragraph 6.8.12 of SLFRS 9 to clarify that, 
when designating a group of items as the hedged item or a combination of financial instruments as the 
hedging instrument, entities assess when the uncertainty arising from the reform with respect to the 
hedged risk and/or the timing and amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of that item 
or financial instrument is no longer present on an individual basis—that is, for each individual item in 
the group or financial instrument in the combination 
Effective date and transition 
 
BC6.600 The council of CA Sri Lanka decided that entities shall  apply the amendments for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2020, with earlier application permitted. 
 
BC6.601 The council of CA Sri Lanka decided that the amendments  apply retrospectively. The council of 
CA Sri Lanka highlighted that retrospective application of the amendments wo uld not allow reinstating 
hedge accounting that has already been discontinued. Nor would it allow designation in hindsight. If an 
entity had not designated a hedging relationship, the exceptions, even though applied retrospectively, 
would not allow the entity to apply hedge accounting in prior periods to items that were not designated 
for hedge accounting. Doing so would be inconsistent with the requirement that hedge accounting 
applies prospectively. Retrospective application of the exceptions would enable entities to continue 
hedge accounting for a hedging relationship that the entity had  previously designated and that 
qualifies for hedge accounting applying SLFRS 9. 
 
BC6.602 Many respondents to the 2019 Exposure Draft commented o n the clarity of the proposed retrospective 
application and suggested that further explanation be provided in the Standard. Consequently, the council 
of CA Sri Lanka amended the transition paragraph to specify that retr ospective application applies 
only to those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the reporting period in which an 
entity first applies those requirements or were designated thereafter, and to the amount accumulated 
in the cash flow hedge reserve that existed at the beginning of the reporting period in which an entity 
first applies those requirements. The council of CA Sri Lanka used this wording to permit an entity to 
apply the amendments from the beginning of the reporting period in which an entity first applies these 
amendments even if the reporting period is not an annual period. 
 
BC6.603 The council of CA Sri Lanka noted that these amendments  would also apply to entities adopting 
SLFRS Standards for the first time as required by SLFRS 1 First  time Adoption of International 
Financial Reporting Standards. Accordingly, the council of CA S ri Lanka did not provide specific 
transition provisions for those entities. 
 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    19A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
Amendments to the Basis for Conclusions on LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement
This Basis for Conclusions accompanies, but is not part of, LKAS 39.
After paragraph BC222, new headings and paragraphs BC223–BC288 are added.
Hedging
…
Amendments for Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (September 2019)
BC223 Interest rate benchmarks such as interbank offered rates (IBORs) play an important role in global
financial markets. These interest rate benchmarks index trillions of dollars and other currencies in a
wide variety of financial products, from derivatives to residential mortgages. However, cases of 
attemptedmarketmanipulationofsomeinterestratebenchmarks,togethe r with the post-crisis decline 
in liquidity in interbank unsecured funding markets, have undermined confidence in the reliability 
and robustnessof someinterestratebenchmarks.Againstthisbackgrou nd,theG20askedthe Financial
Stability Board (FSB) to undertake a fundamental review of major interest rate benchmarks.
Following the review, the FSB published a report setting out its recommended reforms of some major
interest rate benchmarks such as IBORs. Public authorities in many jurisdictions have since taken steps to
implement thoserecommendations. Insomejurisdictions,thereisalready clear progress towards the 
reform of interest rate benchmarks, or the replacement of interest rate benchmarks with alternative, 
nearlyrisk-free interest rates that are based, to a greater ext ent, on transaction data (alternative
benchmark rates). This has in turn led to uncertainty about the long-termviabilityofsome interestrate
benchmarks.Intheseamendments, theterm ‘interestratebenchmark reform’referstothemarket-wide
reformof an interest rate benchmark including its replacement w ith an alternative benchmark rate,
suchasthatresultingfromthe FSB’srecommendationsset outinitsJuly2014 report‘ReformingMajor
Interest RateBenchmarks’ (the reform).6
BC224 In 2018 the Council noted the increasing levels of uncertainty aboutthe long- term viability of some
interest rate benchmarks and decided to address as a prioritytheissuesaffectingfinancialreportingin
theperiodbeforethereform (referred to as pre-replacement issues)
BC225 As part of the pre-replacement issues, the Council considered the implications for specific hedge 
accounting requirements in SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39, which require forward-looking analysis. As a
result of the reform, contractual cash flows of hedged items and hedging instruments based on an
existinginterest rate benchmark will likely change when that interest rate benchmark is subject to 
the reform—in these amendments, contractual cash flows encompass both contractually specified and 
non-contractually specified cash flows. The same uncertainty arising from the reform regarding the
timingand the amount of future cash flows will likely affect the changes in fair value of hedged items
and hedging instruments in a fair value hedge of the interest rate benchmark exposure. Until decisions
are made about what the alternative benchmark rate is, and when and how the reform will occur, 
6 The report, 'Reforming Major Interest Rate Benchmarks', is available at http://www.fsb.org/wp- content/uploads/r_140722.pdf.

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
including specifying its effects on particular contracts, uncertainties w ill exist regarding the timing and 
the amount of future cash flows of the hedged item and the hedging instrument. 
 
BC226 The Council noted that the hedge accounting requirements in SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39 provide a clear basis 
for accounting for such uncertainties. In applying these requir ements, the uncertainties about the 
timing and the amount of future cash flows could affect an entity’s ability to meet those specific 
forward- looking hedge accounting requirements in the period wh en uncertainty is created by the 
reform. In some cases, solely due to such uncertainties, entiti es could be required to discontinue hedge 
accounting for hedging relationships that would otherwise quali fy for hedge accounting. Also, 
because of the uncertainties arising from the reform, entities may not be able to designate new 
hedging relationships that would otherwise qualify for hedge acc o u n t i n g  a p p l y i n g  S L F R S  9  a n d  
LKAS 39. In some cases, discontinuation of hedge accounting would require an entity to recognise 
gains or losses in profit or loss. 
 
BC227 In the Council’s view, discontinuation of hedge accounting solely due to such uncertainties before the 
reform’s economic effects on hedged items and hedging instruments are known would not provide 
useful information to users of financial statements. Therefore, the Council decided to publish in May 
2019 the Exposure Draft Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (2019 Exposure Draft), which proposed 
exceptions to SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39 to provide relief during this period of uncertainty 
 
BC228 The 2019 Exposure Draft proposed exceptions to specific h edge accounting requirements such that 
entities would apply those requirements assuming the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged risk 
and/or cash flows of the hedged item or of the hedging instrument ar e  b a sed  is  no t alter ed  a s a  r esult  o f  
the reform. The proposed exceptions applied only to the hedge accounting requirements specified in 
that Exposure Draft and were not intended to provide relief fro m all consequences arising from the 
reform. 
BC229 Almost all respondents to the 2019 Exposure Draft agreed with the Council’s decision to address pre-
replacement issues. Many highlighted the urgency of these issues, especially in some jurisdictions 
where there is already clear progress towards the reform or replacement of interest rate benchmarks 
with alternative benchmark rates. 
 
BC230 In September 2019 the Council amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39 an d SLFRS 7 by issuing Interest Rate 
Benchmark Reform, which confirmed with modifications the proposals in the 2019 Exposure Draft. In 
the amendments issued in September 2019, the Council added paragraphs 102A–102N and 108G to 
LKAS 39. 
 
BC231 The Council decided to propose amendments to LKAS 39 as w ell as SLFRS 9 because when entities first 
apply SLFRS 9, they are permitted to choose as an accounting policy to continue to apply the hedge 
accounting requirements of LKAS 39. The Council understands that a significant number of SLFRS 
preparers—financial institutions in particular—have made such an accounting policy choice. 
Scope of the exceptions 
BC232 In the 2019 Exposure Draft, the Council noted that the he dge accounting issues being addressed arise in 
the context of interest rate benchmark reform, and, therefore, the proposed exceptions would apply only 
to hedging relationships of interest rate risk that are affecte d by the reform. However, some 
respondents expressed the view that the scope of the exceptions, as set out in the 2019 Exposure Draft, 
would not include other types of hedging relationships that may be affected by uncertainties arising 
from the reform such as hedging relationships in which an entity designates cross-currency interest 
rate swaps to hedge its exposure to both foreign currency and interest rate risk. These respondents asked 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    21A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
the Council to clarify whether the scope of the exceptions was m e a n t  t o  i n c l u d e  s u c h  h e d g i n g  
relationships. 
 
BC233 In its redeliberations on the 2019 Exposure Draft, the Co uncil clarified that it did not intend to exclude 
from the scope of the amendments hedging relationships in which  interest rate risk is not the only 
designated hedged risk. The Council agreed with respondents that other hedging relationships could 
be directly affected by the reform when the reform gives rise t o uncertainties about the timing or 
the amount of interest rate benchmark- based cash flows of the hedged item or of the hedging 
instrument. Therefore, the Council confirmed that the exception s would apply to the interest rate 
benchmark-based cash flows in these situations. The Council not ed that many derivatives, designated 
in hedging relationships in which there is no uncertainty about the timing or the amount of interest rate 
benchmark-based cash flows, could be indirectly affected by the reform. For example, this would be the 
case when the valuation of the derivatives is affected by gener al uncertainty in the market caused by 
the reform. The Council confirmed that the exceptions do not apply to these hedging relationships, 
despite the indirect effect the uncertainties arising from the reform could have on the valuation of 
derivatives. 
 
BC234 Consequently, the Council clarified the wording in paragr aph 102A of LKAS 39 to refer to all hedging 
relationships that are directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform. Paragraph 102A of LKAS 
39 explains that a hedging relationship is directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform only if 
the reform gives rise to uncertainties about the interest rate benchmark (contractually or non-
contractually specified) designated as a hedged risk and/or the timing or the amount of interest rate 
benchmark-based cash flows of the hedged item or of the hedging instrument. The scope of t he 
exceptions does not exclude hedging relationships in which interest rate risk is not the only hedged 
risk. 
Highly probable requirement 
 
BC235 The Council noted that if an entity designates a forecast  transaction as the hedged item in a cash 
flow hedge, applying paragraph 88(c) of LKAS 39, that transaction must be highly probable (highly 
probable requirement). This requirement is intended to ensure t hat changes in the fair value of 
designated hedging instruments are recognised in other comprehensive income only for those hedged 
forecast transactions that are highly probable to occur. This requirement is an important discipline 
in applying hedge accounting to forecast transactions. The Coun cil noted that the requirements in 
LKAS 39 provide a clear basis to account for the effects of the  reform—that is, if the effects of the 
r e f o r m a r e  s u c h  t h a t  t h e  h e d g e d  c a s h  f l o ws  a r e  n o  l o n g e r  h i g h l y probable, hedge accounting should be 
discontinued. As set out in paragraph BC227, in the Council’s view, discontinuing all affec ted 
hedging relationships solely due to such uncertainty would not provide useful information to users 
of financial statements. 
 
BC236 Therefore, the Council amended LKAS 39 to provide an exce ption to the highly probable requirement 
that would provide targeted relief during this period of uncertainty. More specifically, applying the 
exception, if the hedged future cash flows are based on an interest rate benchmark that is subject to 
the reform, an entity assumes that the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged cash flows are 
based is not altered when assessing whether the future cash flows are highly probable. If the hedged 
future cash flows are based on a highly probable forecast transaction, by applying the exception in 
paragraph 102D of LKAS 39 when performing the assessment of the  highly probable requirement 
for that forecast transaction, the entity would assume that the interest rate benchmark on which the 
hedged cash flows are based will not be altered in the future contract as a result of the reform. For 

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
example, for a future issuance of a London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)-referenced debt 
instrument, the entity would assume that the LIBOR benchmarkrateonwhichthe hedgedcashflows
are based will not be altered as a result of the reform.
BC237 The Council noted that this exception does not necessarily result inan entity determining that the
hedged cash flows are highly probable. In the example described in paragraph BC236, the entity 
assumed that the interest rate benchmark in the future contract  would not be altered as a result of 
the reform when determining whether that forecast transaction i s highly probable. However, if the 
entity decides not to issue the debt instrument because of uncertainty arising from the reform or for
any other reason, the hedged future cash flows are no longer highly probable (and are no longer 
expected to occur). The exception would not permit or require the entity to assume otherwise. In this
case, the entity would conclude that the LIBOR- based cash flowsare no longer highly probable (and
arenolongerexpectedto occur).
BC238 The Council also included an exception for discontinued hedging relationships. Applying this exception, 
any amount remaining in other comprehensive income when a hedging relationship is discontinued
would be reclassified to profit or loss in the same period(s) during whichthe hedged cash flows affect 
profit or loss, based on the assumption that the interest rate benchmark on whichthehedgedcashflows
arebasedisnotaltered asaresultofthereform. If, however, the hedged future cash flows are no longer
expected to occur for other reasons,theentityisrequiredtoimmediatelyreclassifytoprofit orloss any 
amount remaining in other comprehensive income. In addition, th e exception would not exempt
entitiesfromreclassifyingtheamountthatisnot expected to be recovered into profit or loss as required
by paragraph 97 of LKAS 39.
Effectiveness assessment
BC239 Applying LKAS 39, a hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting only if the conditions in 
paragraph 88 are met. Two of the conditions in that paragraph—the prospective assessment and the 
retrospective assessment — require that the hedging relationship is highly effective in achieving
offsetting changesinfairvalue orcashflowsattributabletothe hedgedrisk.Ifeitherof theseconditions
is not met, paragraphs 91(b) and 101(b) require the entity to discontinue hedge accounting
prospectively.
Prospective assessment
BC240 When applying paragraph 88(b) of LKAS 39, demonstrating th at a hedging relationship is expected 
to be highly effective requires the estimation of future cash flo ws because the assessment is
prospective in nature. Interest rate benchmark reform could affect this assessment for hedging
relationships that may extend beyond the timing of the reform. That is because entities wouldhaveto
consider possible changes to the fair value or future cash flows of hedgeditems and hedging
instruments in determining whether a hedging relationship is expected to be highly effective.
Consequently,atsomepointin time, it is possible that entities would not be able to meet the condition
in paragraph 88(b) of LKAS 39 solely because of uncertainties arising fromt h e  r e f o r m .
BC241 The Council considered the usefulness of the information t hat would result from the potential 
discontinuation of hedge accounting for affected hedging relati onships and decided to amend the 
requirement in LKAS 39 to provide an exception for the prospect ive assessment for the same
reasons as discussed in paragraph BC227.
BC242 Applying this exception, an entity shall assess whether the hedge isexpected to be highly effective in
achieving offsetting as required by LKAS 39, based on the assumption thatthe hedged risk or the
interestratebenchmarkon which the hedged item or the hedging instrument is based is not altered as a

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    23A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
result of the reform. Similarly, if an entity designates a high ly probable forecast transaction as the 
hedged item, the entity shall perform the prospective assessmen t based on the assumption that the 
interest rate benchmark on which the hedged cash flows are based will not change as a result of the 
reform. 
 
BC243 The Council noted that an offset between the hedged item and the hedging instrument is a 
fundamental principle of the hedge accounting model in LKAS 39 and, therefore, the Council 
considered it critical to maintain  this principle. The exceptio n addresses only the uncertainties 
arising from the reform. Therefore, if an entity is unable to demonstrate that a hedging relationship 
is expected to be highly effective for other reasons, the entit y shall discontinue hedge accounting 
as required by LKAS 39. 
 
Retrospective assessment 
 
BC244 When developing the 2019 Exposure Draft, the Council deci ded not to propose an exception to the 
retrospective assessment required by paragraph 88(e) and AG105(b) of LKAS 39 for the effects of 
the reform. As described in the 2019 Exposure Draft, that assessment is based on the actual results 
of the hedging relationship based on the extent to which hedging gains or losses on the hedged item 
attributable to the hedged risk offset changes in the fair valu e of the hedging instrument. The 
Council noted that existing SLFRS Standards already provide an adequate basis for measuring 
ineffectiveness. 
 
BC245 Most respondents disagreed with the Council’s decision not to p ropose an exception to the 
retrospective assessment. Respondents noted that due to the inh erent interaction between the 
assessment of the forward-looking cash flows of the hedged item and its effect on both prospective 
and retrospective assessments, the proposed amendments would no t achieve their intended effect 
unless an exception is also provided for the retrospective assessment. 
 
BC246 Furthermore, these respondents expressed the view that th e discontinuation of hedge accounting 
because hedging relationships do not meet the requirements in p aragraph AG105(b) of LKAS 39, 
as a result of the temporary ineffectiveness caused by the reform, would not reflect an entity’s risk 
management strategy and, therefore, would not provide useful in formation to users of financial 
statements. 
 
BC247 In its redeliberations on the amendments to LKAS 39, the Council considered the feedback 
received. The Council discussed three approaches that it could apply for providing an exception to 
the retrospective assessment for the impact of the uncertainty arising from the reform. 
 
BC248 The Council observed that one possible approach would be to require entities to assume that the 
interest rate benchmark is not altered similar to the prospective assessment. Applying this approach 
would require entities to separate the assessment of retrospect ive effectiveness from the 
measurement of hedge ineffectiveness. More specifically, the Council considered that the objective 
of this approach would be to exclude the uncertainty arising fr om the reform from the assessment 
of whether a hedge is considered to be highly effective and tha t hedge accounting is continued 
when the results of this assessment are within the range of 80–125 per cent as required in paragraph 
AG105(b) of LKAS 39, even if the measurement of actual ineffectiveness is outside that range. The 
Council was of the view that even though this approach is consi stent with the other exceptions 
provided in the amendments to LKAS 39, the requirement to perform two effectiveness calculations 

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
based on different assumptions could be burdensome on preparers . The Council therefore rejected 
this approach. 
 
BC249 The Council also considered an approach that was recommen ded by respondents to the 2019 
Exposure Draft, in which entities would be required, for the pu rposes of the retrospective 
assessment, to demonstrate the existence of an economic relationship between the hedged item and 
hedging instrument similar to the requirements in SLFRS 9. Howe ver, the Council noted that the 
existence of an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, is only 
one of the requirements in SLFRS 9 for a hedging relationship to be highly effective. The Council 
considered that the requirements in paragraph 6.4.1(c) of SLFRS  9 are inherently linked and the 
application of the economic relationship in isolation might not  achieve the intended objective and 
could result in unintended consequences. The Council therefore rejected this approach. 
 
BC250 The Council decided on an approach whereby an entity coul d continue to apply hedge accounting 
for hedging relationships directly affected by the reform, even  if the actual results of the hedging 
relationship do not meet the requirements in paragraph AG105(b)  of LKAS 39, if the 
ineffectiveness arose from uncertainty arising from the reform or other sources, subject to satisfying 
the other conditions in paragraph 88 of LKAS 39, including the prospective assessment (as 
amended by paragraph 102F of LKAS 39). 
 
BC251 The Council acknowledged that such an approach might prov ide less discipline compared to the 
approach described in paragraph BC248, which would introduce ad ditional requirements to 
mitigate the risk of continuing hedge accounting for hedging re lationships that failed the 
retrospective assessment for reasons other than the reform. How ever, the Council noted that its 
approach still maintains a level of discipline around the appli cation of the LKAS 39 hedge 
accounting model through the prospective assessment and neither  imposes additional costs or 
burden for preparers nor introduces new requirements in LKAS 39. 
 
BC252 The Council noted that any exception to the retrospective  assessment will apply only to a well-
defined population of hedging relationships during the period o f uncertainty on the hedged items 
and hedging instruments arising from the reform. Furthermore, t he Council noted that the risk of 
allowing hedge accounting to be applied for hedging relationships that would not otherwise qualify 
for hedge accounting is mitigated by the required prospective a ssessment as only the uncertainty 
arising from the reform is excluded from that assessment. Any o ther sources of ineffectiveness 
would continue to be included in the assessment of whether the hedge is expected to be highly 
effective in future periods. The Council noted that any high le vel of ineffectiveness arising in a 
hedging relationship is expected to be captured by the prospect ive assessment. The Council also 
noted that all ineffectiveness would be recognised and measured and thus be transparent in financial 
reporting. The Council, therefore, decided to provide an except ion from the requirement to 
discontinue hedge accounting as a result of paragraph 88(e) of LKAS 39 because the actual results 
of the hedge do not meet the requirements in paragraph AG105(b) of LKAS 39. 
 
Measurement of ineffectiveness 
 
BC253 The Council noted that the exceptions were not intended t o change the requirement that entities 
measure and recognise hedge ineffectiveness. The Council considered that the actual results of the 
hedging relationships would provide useful information to users of financial statements during the 
period of uncertainty arising from the reform. Therefore, the C ouncil decided that entities should 
continue to measure and recognise hedge ineffectiveness as required by SLFRS Standards. 
 
BC254 The Council also considered whether any exceptions should  be made to the measurement of hedged 
items or hedging instruments because of the uncertainty arising  from the reform. However, the 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    25A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
Council noted that such an exception would be inconsistent with  the decision not to change the 
requirements to measure and recognise hedge ineffectiveness in the financial statements. Therefore, 
the Council decided not to provide an exception from the measurement of hedging instruments and 
hedged items. This means that the fair value of a derivative de signated as the hedging instrument 
should continue to be measured using the assumptions that marke t participants would use when 
pricing that derivative as required by SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. 
 
BC255 For a hedged item designated in a fair value hedge, LKAS 39 requires an entity to remeasure the 
hedged item for changes in fair value attributable to the hedge d risk and recognise the gain or loss 
related to that fair value hedge adjustment in profit or loss. In doing so, the entity uses the 
assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the  hedged item for changes in fair 
value attributable to the hedged risk. This would include a risk premium for uncertainty inherent in 
the hedged risk that market participants would consider. For ex ample, to measure changes in fair 
value attributable to the hedged risk such as the IBOR componen t of a fixed-rate loan, an entity 
needs to reflect the uncertainty caused by the reform. When app lying a present value technique to 
calculate the changes in fair value attributable to the designated risk component, such measurement 
should reflect market participants’ assumptions about the uncertainty arising from the reform 
 
BC256 When an entity designates interest rate benchmark-based c ash flows as the hedged item in a cash 
flow hedge, to calculate the change in the value of the hedged item for the purpose of measuring 
hedge ineffectiveness, the entity may use a derivative that would have terms that match the critical 
terms of the designated cash flows and the hedged risk (this is  commonly referred to as a 
‘hypothetical derivative’). As the Council decided that entitie s should continue to measure and 
recognise hedge ineffectiveness as required by SLFRS Standards, entities should continue to apply 
assumptions that are consistent with those applied to the hedge d risk of the hedged item. For 
example, if an entity designated interest rate benchmark-based cash flows as the hedged item in a 
cash flow hedge, the entity would not assume for the purpose of  measuring hedge ineffectiveness 
that the expected replacement of the interest rate benchmark wi th an alternative benchmark rate 
will result in zero cash flows after the replacement. The hedgi ng gain or loss on the hedged item 
should be measured using the interest rate benchmark-based cash  flows (that is, the cash flows on 
which the hypothetical derivative is based) when applying a present value technique, discounted at 
a market-based discount rate that reflects market participants’ assumptions about the u ncertainty 
arising from the reform. The Council concluded that reflecting market participants’ assumptions 
when measuring hedge ineffectiveness provides useful information to users of financial statements 
about the effects of the uncertainty arising from the reform on  an entity’s hedging relationships. 
Therefore, the Council decided that no exceptions are needed fo r the measurement of actual 
ineffectiveness. 
 
Hedges of designated portions 
BC257 The Council noted that in accordance with LKAS 39 an enti ty may designate an item in its entirety 
or only a portion thereof, as the hedged item in a hedging rela tionship. For example, an entity that 
issues a 5-year floating-rate debt instrument that bears intere st at 3-month LIBOR + 1%, could 
designate as the hedged item either the entire debt instrument (that is, all of the cash flows) or only 
the 3-month LIBOR portion of the floating-rate debt instrument.  Specifically, paragraphs 81 and 
AG99F of LKAS 39 allow entities to designate only changes in th e cash flows or fair value of an 
item attributable to a specific risk or risks (designated portion), provided that the designated portion 
is separately identifiable and reliably measurable. 
 

<!-- page 26 -->

26A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
BC258 The Council o bserved that an entity’s ability to conclude that an interest r ate benchmark is a 
separately identifiable designated portion in accordance with p aragraph 81 of LKAS 39 requires a 
continuous assessment over the duration of the hedging relation ship and could be affected by the 
reform. For example, if the outcome of the reform affects the m arket structure of an interest rate 
benchmark, it could affect an entity’s assessment of whether a non- contractually specified LIBOR 
portion is separately identifiable and, therefore, an eligible hedged item in a hedging relationship. 
The Council considered only those designated portions that are implicit in the fair value or the cash 
flows of an item of which they are a part (referred to as non-c ontractually specified) because the 
same issue does not arise for designated portions that are explicitly specified in the contract. 
 
BC259 For the reasons outlined in paragraph BC227, the Council noted that discontinuing hedging 
relationships due to uncertainty arising from the reform would not provide useful information. 
Consequently, the Council decided to propose amending LKAS 39 s o that entities would not 
discontinue hedge accounting solely because the designated port ion is no longer separately 
identifiable as a result of the reform. In the 2019 Exposure Dr aft, the Council proposed that the 
separately identifiable requirement for hedges of the benchmark  portion of interest rate risk be 
applied only at the inception of those hedging relationships affected by the reform. 
 
BC260 The Council proposed not to extend the relief to allow en tities to designate the benchmark portion 
of interest rate risk as the hedged item in a new hedging relationship if the designated portion is not 
separately identifiable at the inception of the hedging relationship. In the Council’s view, allowing 
hedge accounting for designated portions that are not separately identifiable at the inception would 
be inconsistent with the objective of the exception. The Council noted that such circumstances are 
different from allowing continued designation as the hedged ite m for designated portions that had 
met the requirement at the inception of the hedging relationship. 
 
BC261 Furthermore, the Council did not propose any exception fr om the requirement that changes in the 
fair value or cash flows of the designated portion must be reli ably measurable. As noted in 
paragraph BC243, in the Council’s view, an offset between the h edged item and the hedging 
instrument is a fundamental principle of the hedge accounting m odel in LKAS 39 and, therefore, 
the Council considered reliable measurement of the hedged item and the hedging instrument to be 
critical to maintain this principle. 
 
BC262 Almost all respondents agreed with the exception proposed  in the 2019 Exposure Draft to apply 
the separately identifiable requirement only at the inception o f a hedging relationship. However, 
some respondents noted that the proposed exception did not prov ide equivalent relief to hedging 
relationships that frequently reset (ie discontinue and restart ). In those hedging relationships both 
the hedging instrument and the hedged item frequently change (ie the entity uses a dynamic process 
in which both the hedged items and the hedging instruments used  to manage that exposure do not 
remain the same for long). As hedging instruments and hedged it ems are being added or removed 
from a portfolio, entities are de-designating and redesignating  hedging relationships regularly to 
adjust the exposure. If each redesignation of the hedging relat ionship is considered to be the 
inception of a new hedging relationship (even though it is still the same hedging strategy), then the 
separately identifiable requirement would need to be assessed f or all hedged items at each 
redesignation even if they have been assessed previously. For t he same reasons as those noted in 
paragraph BC258, this could affect an entity’s ability to conclude that a non-contractually specified 
risk component remains separately identifiable and, therefore, an eligible hedged item for hedge 
accounting purposes. 
 
BC263 The Council noted that the exception proposed in the 2019  Exposure Draft has the effect that if a 
non-contractually specified designated portion meets the separately identifiable requirement at the 
inception of a hedging relationship, then that requirement woul d not be reassessed subsequently. 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    27A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
Hence, providing a similar exception for hedging relationships that frequently reset (ie discontinue 
and restart) would be consistent with the objective of the exception originally provided in the 2019 
Exposure Draft.
BC264 Thus, the Council confirmed the proposal that a designated  portion is only required to be separately 
identifiable at the inception of the hedging relationship. In a ddition, to respond to the feedback 
described in paragraph BC262, the Council added the exception in paragraph 102I of LKAS 39 for 
hedging relationships that, consistent with an entity’s hedge d ocumentation, frequently reset (ie 
discontinue and restart) because both the hedging instrument an d the hedged item frequently 
change. Applying that paragraph, an entity shall determine whet her the designated portion is 
separately identifiable only when it initially designates an it em as a hedged item in the hedging 
relationship. The hedged item is not reassessed at any subsequent redesignation in the same hedging 
relationship.
BC265 In reaching its decision for the exception in paragraph 102I of LKAS 39 the Council considered an 
example when an entity applies hedge accounting for a portfolio  hedge of interest rate risk under 
LKAS 39 and designates the LIBOR portion of floating-rate loans  as the hedged risk. At the 
inception of the relationship, the entity assesses whether LIBO R is a separately identifiable 
designated portion for all loans designated within the hedging relationship. As the entity updates 
the risk position with the origination of new loans and the maturity or repayment of existing loans, 
the hedging relationship is adjusted by de- designating the ‘old’ hedging relationship and 
redesignating a ‘new’ hedging relationship for the updated amou nt of the hedged items. Applying 
the exception in paragraph 102I of LKAS 39 requires the entity to assess whether LIBOR is a 
separately identifiable designated portion only for the new loans added to the hedging relationship. 
The entity would not reassess the separately identifiable requi rement for the loans that have been 
redesignated.
Mandatory application
BC266 The Council decided to require entities to apply the excep tions in paragraphs 102D–102N of LKAS 
39 to all hedging relationships to which the exceptions are app licable. In other words, the Council 
decided that an entity is required to apply the exceptions to all hedging relationships that are directly 
affected by the uncertainties arising from the reform and conti nue to apply the exceptions until 
required to cease their application as specified in paragraphs 102J–102N of LKAS 39.
BC267 The Council considered but rejected alternatives that woul d have allowed entities to apply the 
exceptions voluntarily. In the Council’s view, voluntary application of these exceptions could give 
rise to selective discontinuation of hedge accounting and selec tive reclassification of the amounts 
recorded in other comprehensive income related to previously discontinued hedging relationships. 
The Council does not expect that requiring entities to apply the exceptions would entail significant 
cost for preparers and other a ffected parties because the exceptions require entities to assume that 
the interest rate benchmark, on which the hedged risk and the hedged cash flows and cash flows of 
the hedging instrument are based, is not altered as a result of the reform.
BC268 In addition, the Council observed that in some circumstanc es the exceptions in paragraphs 102D –
102N of LKAS 39 may not be applicable. For example, for a particular interest rate benchmark not 
subject to the reform or replacement with an alternative benchm ark rate, there is no uncertainty 
affecting the timing or the amount of the interest rate benchma rk-based cash flows arising from a 

<!-- page 28 -->

28A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
hedged item or a hedging instrument. The exceptions set out in paragraphs 102D–102N of LKAS 
39 would not be applicable to such a hedging relationship. 
 
BC269 Furthermore, for a particular hedging relationship the ex ceptions may be applicable to some but 
not all aspects of the hedging relationship. For example, if an  entity designates a hedged item that 
is based on LIBOR against a hedging instrument that is already referenced to an alternative 
benchmark rate (assuming the entity can demonstrate that hedging relationship meets the qualifying 
criteria for hedge accounting in LKAS 39), the exceptions in paragraphs 102D and 102F of LKAS 
39 would apply for the hedged item because there is uncertainty  related to its future cash flows. 
However, there is no uncertainty regarding how the reform would  impact the cash flows of the 
hedging instrument and, therefore, the exception in paragraph 1 02F of LKAS 39 is not applicable 
for the hedging instrument. Similarly, the exception applicable  to non-contractually specified 
designated portions would not be relevant for hedging relations hips that do not involve the 
designation of non- contractually specified portions. 
End of application 
BC270 As described in paragraph  BC227, the Council decided to a mend LKAS 39 to address specific 
aspects of hedge accounting affected by uncertainties in relati on to the hedged items and hedging 
instruments about when the interest rate benchmarks will change  to alternative benchmark rates, 
when any spread adjustment between the interest rate benchmark and the alternative benchmark 
rate will be determined (collectively, timing) and what the cas h flows based on the alternative 
benchmark rate will be, including their frequency of reset, and any spread adjustment between the 
interest rate benchmark and the alternative benchmark rate (col lectively, amount). Therefore, the 
Council intended the exceptions set out in paragraphs 102D–102N of LKAS 39 to be available only 
while these uncertainties are present. 
 
BC271 The Council considered whet her to provide an explicit end date for the exceptions but decided not 
to do so. The reform is following different timelines in differ ent markets and jurisdictions and 
contracts are being modified at different times and, therefore,  at this stage, it is not possible to 
define a period of applicability for the exceptions. 
 
BC272 The Council decided that an entity ceases applying the ex ceptions at the earlier of (a) when the 
uncertainty regarding the timing and the amount of interest rate benchmark-based cash flows is no 
longer present as it relates to a hedged item and/or hedging instrument (depending on the particular 
exception) and (b) the discontinuation of the hedging relationship.7 The exceptions require entities 
to apply specific hedge accounting requirements assuming the in terest rate benchmark on which 
the hedged risk, hedged cash flows or the cash flows of the hed ging instrument are based is not 
altered as a result of the reform. The end of applicability of the exceptions means that entities would 
from that date apply all hedge accounting requirements in LKAS 39 without applying these 
exceptions. 
 
BC273 In the Council’s view, for uncertainty regarding the timing and  the amount of cash flows arising 
from a change in an interest rate benchmark to be eliminated, the underlying contracts are generally 
required to be amended to specify the timing and the amount of cash flows based on the alternative 
benchmark rate (and any spread adjustment between the interest rate benchmark and the alternative 
benchmark rate). The Council noted that, in some cases, a contr act may be amended to include 
reference to the alternative benchmark rate without actually al tering the interest rate benchmark-
                                                           
7  For  the  purpose of applying the exception in paragraph 102E  of LKAS 39 to a discontinued hedging relationship, the amendments 
require an entity to cease applying the exception at the earlier of (a) as described above and (b) when the entire amount that had been 
recognised in other comprehensive income with respect to the hedging relationship has been reclassified to profit or loss. See paragraph 
102K of LKAS 39 

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    29A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
based cash flows in the contract. Such an amendment may not eli minate the uncertainty regarding 
the timing and the amount of interest rate benchmark- based cash flows in the contract. The Council 
considered the following scenarios to assess the robustness of the end of application requirements. 
However, these scenarios are not exhaustive and other scenarios  m a y  e x i s t  i n  w h i c h  t h e  
uncertainties arising from the reform regarding the timing and the amount of cash flows would no 
longer be present.
BC274 Scenario A —a contract is amended to include a clause that specifies (a) th e date the interest rate 
benchmark will be replaced by an alternative benchmark rate and  (b) the alternative benchmark 
rate on which the cash flows will be based and the relevant spread adjustment between the interest 
rate benchmark and the alternative benchmark rate. In this case, the uncertainty regarding the timing 
and the amount of cash flows for this contract is eliminated when the contract is amended to include 
this clause.
BC275 Scenario B —a contract is amended to include a clause that states modifications of contractual cash 
flows will occur due to the reform but that specifies neither the date that the interest rate benchmark 
will be replaced nor the alternative benchmark rate on which the amended cash flows will be based. 
In this case, the uncertainty regarding the timing and the amount of cash flows for this contract has 
not been eliminated by amending the contract to include this clause.
BC276 Scenario C —a contract is amended to include a clause which states that con ditions specifying the 
amount and timing of interest rate benchmark- based cash flows will be determined by a central 
authority at some point in the future. But the clause does not specify those conditions. In this case, 
the uncertainty regarding the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows 
for this contract has not been eliminated by including this cla use in the contract. Uncertainty 
regarding both the timing and the amount of cash flows for this  contract will be present until the 
central authority specifies when the replacement of the benchmark will become effective and what 
the alternative benchmark rate and any related spread adjustment will be.
BC277 Scenario D —a contract is amended to include a clause in anticipation of th e reform that specifies 
the date the interest rate benchmark will be replaced and any spread adjustment between the interest 
rate benchmark and the alternative benchmark rate will be deter mined. However, the amendment 
does not specify the alternative benchmark rate or the spread a djustment between the interest rate 
benchmark and the alternative benchmark rate on which the cash f lows will be based. In this 
scenario, by amending the contract to include this clause, uncertainty regarding the timing has been 
eliminated but uncertainty about the amount remains.
BC278 Scenario E —a contract is amended to include a clause in anticipation of th e reform that specifies 
the alternative benchmark rate on which the cash flows will be based and the spread adjustment 
between the interest rate benchmark and the alternative benchma rk rate but does not specify the 
date from which the amendment to the contract will become effective. In this scenario, by amending 
the contract to include this clause, uncertainty about the amount has been eliminated but uncertainty 
with respect to timing remains.
BC279 Scenario F —in preparation for the reform, a central authority in its capacity as the administrator of 
an interest rate benchmark unde rtakes a multi-step process to r eplace an interest rate benchmark 
with an alternative benchmark rate. The objective of the reform  is to cease the publication of the
current interest rate benchmark and replace it with an alternat ive benchmark rate. As part of the 
reform, the administrator introduces an interim benchmark rate and determines a fixed spread 

<!-- page 30 -->

30A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
adjustment based on the difference between the interim benchmark rate and the current interest rate 
benchmark. Uncertainty about the timing or the amount of the al ternative benchmark rate-based 
cash flows will not be eliminated during the interim period bec ause the interim benchmark rate 
(including the fixed spread adjustment determined by the admini strator) represent an interim 
measure in progressing towards the reform but it does not represent the alternative benchmark rate 
(or any related spread adjustment agreed between parties to the contract). 
 
BC280 For reasons similar to thos e described in paragraph BC269 , the Council noted that there could be 
situations in which the uncertainty for particular elements of a single hedging relationship could 
end at different times. For example, assume an entity is requir ed to apply the relevant exceptions 
to both the hedged item and the hedging instrument. If the hedg ing instrument in that hedging 
relationship is subsequently amended through market protocols c overing all derivatives in that 
market, and will be based on an alternative benchmark rate such  that the uncertainty about the 
timing and the amount of interest rate benchmark-based cash flo ws of the hedging instrument is 
eliminated, the relevant exceptions would continue to apply to the hedged item but would no longer 
apply to the hedging instrument.8 
 
BC281 The Council observed that continuing to apply the excepti on after the uncertainty was resolved 
would not faithfully represent the actual characteristics of the elements of the hedging relationship 
in which the uncertainty arising from the reform is eliminated.  The Council considered whether it 
should extend the relief provided such that the exceptions woul d apply at the hedging relationship 
level for as long as any element of that hedging relationship was affected by the uncertainties arising 
from the reform. The Council agreed that doing so would be beyo nd the objective of addressing 
only those issues directly affected by the uncertainty arising from the reform. This is also because 
the exceptions in paragraphs 102D –102N of LKAS 39 and the respective requirements in LKAS 
39 apply to the same elements of the hedging relationship. Ther efore, applying each exception at 
the hedging relationship level would be inconsistent with how t he underlying requirements are 
applied. 
 
BC282 The Council decided that the end of application requireme nt would also apply to hedges of a 
forecast transaction. The Council noted that LKAS 39 requires a n entity to identify and document 
a forecast transaction with sufficient specificity so that, whe n the transaction occurs, the entity is 
able to determine whether the transaction is the hedged transac tion. For example, if an entity 
designates a future issuance of a LIBOR-based debt instrument as the hedged item, although there 
may be no contract at the time of designation, the hedge documentation would refer specifically to 
LIBOR. Consequently, the Council concluded that entities should  be able to identify when the 
uncertainty regarding the timing and the amount of the resulting cash flows of a forecast transaction 
is no longer present. 
 
BC283 In addition, the Council decided not to require end of ap plication with respect to the exception for 
the separately identifiable requirements set out in paragraphs 102H and 102I of LKAS 39. Applying 
these exceptions, entities would continue applying hedge accoun ting when an interest rate 
benchmark meets the separately identifiable requirement at the inception of the hedging 
relationship (assuming all other hedge accounting requirements continue to be met). If the Council 
included an end date for these exceptions, an entity may be req uired to immediately discontinue 
hedge accounting because, at some point, as the reform progress es, the designated portion based 
on the interest rate benchmark may no longer be separately identifiable (for example, as the market 
for the alternative benchmark rate is established). Such immedi ate discontinuation of hedge 
                                                           
8  In this scenario, the entity would first consider the account ing consequences of amending the contractual terms of the hedgi ng 
instrument. The Council will consider the accounting consequences of the actual amendment of financial instruments as a result of 
interest rate benchmark reform in the next phase of this project (ie the replacement phase) 

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    31A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
accounting would be inconsistent with the objective of the exce ption. The Council noted that 
linking the end of application for these exceptions to contract  amendments would not achieve the 
Council’s intention either because by definition, non -contractually specified designated portions 
are not explicitly stated in a cont ract and, therefore, these c ontracts may not be amended for the 
reform. This is particularly relevant for fair value hedges of a fixed-rate debt instrument. Therefore, 
the Council decided that an entity should cease applying the ex ceptions to a hedging relationship 
only when the hedging relationship is discontinued applying LKAS 39.
BC284 Some respondents to the 2019 Exposure Draft noted that the  Council had not addressed when an 
entity ceases applying the proposed exceptions to a group of it ems designated as the hedged item 
or a combination of financial instruments designated as the hedging instrument. Specifically, when 
assessing whether the uncertainty arising from the reform is no  longer present, these respondents 
asked whether that assessment should be performed on an individ ual basis (that is, for each 
individual item within the group or financial instrument within the combination) or on a group basis 
(that is, for all items in the group or all financial instrumen ts in the combination until there is no 
uncertainty surrounding any of the items or financial instruments).
BC285 Consequently, the Council decided to add paragraph 102N of  LKAS 39 to clarify that, when 
designating a group of items as the hedged item or a combinatio n of financial instruments as the 
hedging instrument, entities assess when the uncertainty arising from the reform with respect to the 
hedged risk and/or the timing and amount of the interest rate b enchmark-based cash flows of that 
item or financial instrument is no longer present on an individual basis—that is, for each individual 
item in the group or financial instrument in the combination.
Effective date and transition
BC286 The Council decided that entities shall apply the amendmen ts for annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2020, with earlier application permitted.
BC287 The Council decided that the amendments apply retrospectiv ely. The Council highlighted that 
retrospective application of the amendments would not allow reinstating hedge accounting that has 
already been discontinued. Nor would it allow designation in hi ndsight. If an entity had not 
designated a hedging relationship, the exceptions, even though applied retrospectively, would not 
allow the entity to apply hedge accounting in prior periods to items that were not designated for 
hedge accounting. Doing so would be inconsistent with the requi rement that hedge accounting 
applies prospectively. Retrospective application of the exceptions would enable entities to continue 
hedge accounting for a hedging relationship that the entity had  previously designated and that 
qualifies for hedge accounting applying LKAS 39.
BC288 Many respondents to the 2019 Exposure Draft commented on t he clarity of the proposed 
retrospective application and suggested that further explanatio n be provided in the Standard. 
Consequently, the Council amended the transition paragraph to s pecify that retrospective 
application applies only to those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the reporting 
period in which an entity first applies these amendments or wer e designated thereafter, and to the 
gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income that existed at the beginning of the reporting 
period in which an entity first applies these amendments. The Council used this wording to permit 
an entity to apply the amendments from the beginning of the rep orting period in which an entity 
first applies these amendments even if the reporting period is not an annual period.

<!-- page 32 -->

32A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
Amendments to the Basis for Conclusions on SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
This Basis for Conclusions accompanies, but is not part of, SLFRS 7
After paragraph BC35SS, a new subheading and paragraphs BC35TT –BC35CCC are added
Uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform
BC35TT In May 2019 the Council published the Exposure DraftInterest Rate Benchmark Reform (2019
Exposure Draft), which proposed exceptions to specific hedge accounting requirements in SLFRS 9
and LKAS 39 to provide relief in the period before the reform of interest rate benchmarks. The 
Council issued the final amendments to SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39 in Se ptember 2019. Paragraphs 
BC6.546–BC6.603 of the Basis for Conclusions on SLFRS 9 and paragraphs BC223–BC288 of the
Basis for Conclusions on LKAS 39 provide the background to these amendments.
BC35UU In the 2019 Exposure Draft, the Council proposed that entities applying the exceptions provide 
disclosure about the magnitude of the hedging relationships to which the exceptions apply. As 
explained in paragraphBC44 of the Basis for Conclusions on the 2019 Exposure Draft, the Council noted
that SLFRS7already requiresspecificdisclosures abouthedgeaccounting. TheCouncil proposed that for 
some specifically identified disclosures, information be provid ed separately for hedging 
relationships to which the proposed exceptions apply. Specifica lly, the Council proposed that an 
entity provide separately the information required by paragraphs 24A(a), 24A(c )–(d), 24B(a) (i)–(ii),
24B(a)(iv) and 24B(b) of SLFRS 7 for hedging relationships affected by interest rate benchmark
reform.
BC35VV Most respondents to the 2019 Exposure Draft agreed that information about the magnitude of the
hedging relationships to which the proposed exceptions apply would be useful to users of financial
statements. However, respondents had mixed views on whether the proposed disclosure requirements
struck the rightbalancebetweentheexpectedbenefitsforusersoffinancialstatem ents and the expected
cost for preparers. As a result, these respondents suggested simplifying the proposed disclosure
requirements.
BC35WW In addition, users of financial statements told the Council that, since the proposed amendments to
SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39 would be mandatory, information about the extent to which anentity’s hedging
relationships are within the scope of the exceptions would provide useful information. Such
information could be provided by requiring entities to disclose the nominal amounts of hedging 
instruments in hedging relationships in the scope of the amendm ents, supplemented with an 
explanation about how the entity is managing the process to tra nsition to alternative benchmark 
rates. These disclosures would help users of financial statements understand how an entity’s 
hedging relationships are affected by the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmarkreform.
BC35XX On the basis ofrespondents’ comments and feedback from users of financial statements, the Council
decided to require entities to provide the disclosures set out in paragraph 24H of SLFRS 7 for hedging
relationships directly affected by interest rate benchmarkreform.
BC35YY Specific to the disclosure requirement in paragraph 24H(d) of SLFRS 7, the Council acknowledged 
that given the objective and specificity of the amendments to S LFRS 9 and LKAS 39, there may 
be limited additional assumptions or judgements in the context of applying those exceptions. For 
example, the exceptions specify the assumptions to make about the interest rate benchmark-based cash
flows. Nevertheless, the Council observed that if an entity makes significant assumptions or 
judgements in applying the exceptions in those amendments (for example, to determine when the 
uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no longer present), that would be useful 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    33A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
information for the users of financial statements. Accordingly,  the Council decided to require 
entities to disclose information about any significant assumptions or judgements tha t the entity makes
in applying the exceptions in the amendments.
BC35ZZ The Council noted that the requirement in paragraph 24H(e) of SLFRS 7 is intended toprovideusers
of financial statements with information about the quantum of hedging relationships which are 
directly affected by the uncertaintiesarisingfromthereform.That paragraphrequiresdisclosureof the
nominal amount of the hedging instruments in a hedging relationship direc t l y  a f f e c t e d  b y  t h e  
uncertainties arising from the reform so that the information isdisclosed on a gross basis rather than
on a net basis (that is, offsetting hedging instruments in a liability position against those in an asset 
position).
BC35AAA Some respondents to the 2019 Exposure Draft raised concerns about the disclosure requirement 
in paragraph 28(f) of LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. 
This paragraph requires an entity, on the initial application of an SLFRS (or amendments to an 
SLFRS), to disclose, for the current period and each prior peri od presented, the amount of any 
adjustment for each financial statement line item affected.
BC35BBB These respondents said that requiring such disclosure for the amendments to SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39
would not provide useful information to users of financial statements and also would be onerous for
preparers. This is because it would require an entity to maintain parallel systems in order to 
determine the amount of the adjustment for each financial state ment line item affected. 
Furthermore, disclosing this information would be inconsistent with the Council’s observation in
paragraph BC6.550 of SLFRS 9 and paragraph BC227 of LKAS 39, that discontinuing hedge 
accounting solely due to uncertainties arising from the reform would not provide useful 
information to users of financial statements.
BC35CCC The Council agreed with these comments and decided to exempt entities from the requirement in 
paragraph 28(f) of LKAS 8 in the reporting period in which an entity first applies the amendments 
to SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
(2*