

<!-- page 1 -->

PART 1: SECTION (1) - GENERAL
 THE   MEDICAL   ORDINANCE   (CHAPTER  105)
REGULATIONS  made by the Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine, in consultation with the Sri Lank a
Medical Council and upon the consideration of the comments of each university or institution which grants or confers any
qualification which entitles a person to obtain registration under the Medical Ordinance, under section 72 read with section
19(e) of the Medical Ordinance (Chapter 105).
RAJITHA SENARATHNE,
Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine.
Colombo,
25th January 2018.
Regulations
1. (1) These Regulations may be cited as the Medical (Maintenance of Minimum Standards of Medical Education)
Regulations No. 01 of  2018.
(2) The provisions of these regulations shall come into operation on the date on which the notificat ion of  the
approval of Parliament is published in the Gazette.
2. The minimum standards for medical education in a recognized university or institution shall be as se t out in the
Schedule hereto.
wxl 2055$54 - 2018 ckjdß ui 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'01'26
No. 2055/54 – FRIDA Y, JANUAR Y 26, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
Government Notifications
L. D. B. 123/48 (iii)
1A - PG 3905 - 507 (01/2018)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'01'262  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  26.01.2018
3. Every recognized university or institution within or outside Sri Lanka which grants or confers a medical qualification,
alone or jointly with any Sri Lankan or foreign recognized university or institution under affiliation or under a twin
medical programme shall ensure that the minimum standards set out in the Schedule hereto are adhere' to and maintain
by such recognized university or institution in the conduct of its medical education.
4. For the purpose of these regulations -
"Medical qualifications" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it by section 19E of the Medical Ordinance;
"Recongnized university" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it by section 19E of the Medical  Ordinance;
and
"Twin Medical programme, means a programme or course of study leading to the award of medical education which
is conducted in two separate recognized universities or institutions in the same country or two diff erent countries,
where each recognized university or institution independently awards its own medical qualification.
SCHEDULE
(regulation 2)
MISSION AND OUTCOMES :
1. There shall be a well-defined mission for every university or institution which conducts medical education which shall
be formulated with the participation of its principal stake-holders.  The mission statement shall address -
(a)  the health needs of the community and heallth care system;
(b)  medical research;
(c) Social accountability, professionalism and ethics; and
(d)  global health.
2. The educational strategy shall be designed to produce medical practitioners competent at the basic level,  which shall
serve as a foundation for :
(a) taking on the role of a medical practitioner in the health sector;
(b) a future career in any branch of medicine;
(c) any post-graduate medical training; and
(d) a commitment to life -long learning.
3. The university or institution shall have and maintain institutional autonomy to formulate and implement policies with
regard to-
(a) the design and contents and evaluation of the curriculum; and
(b) use of financial and human resources allocated for the implementation thereof.
For the above purposes there shall be established by the university or institution, a committee under the leadership of
the medical academic head, which shall have the responsibility and authority for planning and implem enting the

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'01'26 3 A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  26.01.2018
curriculum and programmes to secure its intended educational outcome, including innovations in the curriculum.  The
committee shall seek inputs from the environment in which medical graduates are expected to work and where appropriate,
modify the programmes accordingly, In the formulation and implementation of policies, the committee may obtain the
participation of student representatives especially in the design, management and evaluation of its curriculum and in
other matters relating to students.
EDUCATIONAL    PROGRAMME :
4. There shall be a well formulated, comprehensive curriculum model, together with instructional and learning methods
designed to -
(a) produce competent and compassionate medical practitioners with required clinical skills and sound knowledge
of the underpinning theoretical basis;
(b) impact skills in research to enhance analytical and critical thinking, including the principles of t he scientific
method and evidence-based medicine;
(c) nurture ethical and professional behaviour required for the humane practice of medicine,
(d) instill self-reflection and self-learning skills to produce lifelong learners
and be delivered in accordance with the principle of equality.
5. The curriculum of the university or institution shall incorporate, inter alia,-
(a) contributions from the basic biomedical sciences to understand the scientific knowledge, concepts and methods
which are fundamental  to the acquisition and application of   clinical Science. The basic biomedica l Sciences
would include, anatomy, biochemistry and nutrition, cell biology, genetics, immunology, microbology  ( including
bacteriology, mycology, parasitology and virology), molecular biology, pathology, pharmacology and physiology
as required to provide sufficient foundation for the clinical sciences;
(b) contributions from-
(i) the behavioural and social sciences which would include medical aspects of anthropology, psychology
and sociology;
(ii) community medicine and public health which would include  biostatistics,  epidemiology,  global  health,
primary health, hygiene, health promotion and social and preventative medicine;
(iii) medical ethics which deal with moral issues in medical practice such as values, rights and responsibilities
related o physician behavior and decision making, and
(v) medical jurisprudence, clinical forensic medicine and  forensic pathology that deals  with laws  and other
regulations of the health care delivery system, of the profession and medical practice.
For this purpose, students shall  avail themselves of a minimum period of two hundred hours in plann ed
learning in a community / first contact care setting, to engage in primary care, health promotion and preventative
medicine; and a minimum of fifty hours in clinical forensic medicine and forensic pathology.
(c) contributions from the clinical sciences to ensure that the students acquire sufficient knowledge an d specified
clinical skills to assume appropriate professional responsibility after graduation.  The clinical sc iences would
include general medicine and its subspecialities (e.g. cardiology, neurology), surgery and its subsp ecialities
(e.g. orthopaedics, neurosurgery), obstetrics & gynaecology, paediatrics and its subspecialities, family medicine
(general practice), psychiatry.
For this purpose, students shall avail themselves of at least three thousand hours of learning in th e study
programme, in planned regular contact with adequate number of patients in relevant clinical settings in order to
acquire the required experience in patient care; and
(d) periods of training in the major clinical disciplines with sub-specialties, where appropriate, as follows:
(i) a minimum of eight hundred hours of learning in internal medicine and  related subspecialties (including,
cardiology, dermatology, neurology, and venereology/  sexually  transmitted diseases) in hospital based
clinical training;
(ii) a minimum of eight hundred hours of learning in surgery and related specilaies (including anaesthesiology,
ophthalmology, orthopaedic surgery, and oto-rhino-laryngology) in hospital based clinical training;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'01'264  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  26.01.2018
(iii) a minimum of four hundred hours of learning in obstetrics & gynaecology in hospital based clinical training;
(iv) a minimum of four hundred hours of learning in paediatrics in hospital based clinical training;
(v) a minimum of two hundred hours of learning in psychiatry in hospital based clinical training; and
(vi) the minimum hours of learning in the clinical disciplines may include not more than one-fifth of hou rs in a
community -based setting.
6. It shall be the duty of the university or institutions to :
(a) describe in the curriculum the content, extent and the sequence of courses and other curricular elements to ensure
appropriate coordination between basic biomedical, behavioural and social and clinical subjects;
(b) ensure a healthy blend of teaching and learning methods to facilitate the achievement of desired learning outcomes;
(c) organize clinical training with appropriate attention to patient safety; and
(d) ensure operational linkage between the eductional programme and the subsequent stages of training or  practice
after graduation.
ASSESSMENT  OF   STUDENTS :
7. The University or institution shall define, specify and publish the principles, methods and practices to be followed in the
assessment of performance of students and the criteria for setting the pass marks,  grade structure and the number of
re-takes permitted.  Such principles, methods  and practices shall -
(a) be clearly and constructively aligned with the intended educational outcome and instructional method s;
(b) include a sufficiently wide range of assessment methods, in order to cover knowledge, skills and attitudes;
(c) be open to scrutiny by external experts and devoid of conflict of interest; and
(d) promote student learning and  provide an appropriate balance  of formative and summative assessments  to guide
both learning and decisions about academic progress.
STUDENTS :
8.(a) The university or institution shall formulate and implement a policy on admission based on principles of objectivity
and make a clear statement on the process of selection of students.  The policy shall also take cogn izance of the
admission policy of the relevant state's higher education system, opportunities for differently-able d students and
the transfer of students from one programme or university or institution to another when the curricula are compatible
and there is academic continuity.
(b) In the event that students enter the educational programme directly from secondary school, with at l east twelve
years of schooling , the duration of the medical educational programme shall be at least five academic year.
(c) Every student admitted to the Medical Degree Programme of a university or institution shall have pas sed the
General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination of Sri Lanka or an equivalent examination, in the
subject of Biology, Chemistry and Physics with minimum grades of credit passes in the subjects of Bi ology and
Chemistry, at one and the same sitting.
(d) The universiry or institution shall specify the size of the student intake and relate it to its capacity at all stages of  the
medical educational programme.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'01'26 5 A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  26.01.2018
(e) The university of institution shall -
(i) Have a system for academic counselling of its students based on the progress of students;
(ii) offer a programme of student support, including remedial teaching where necessary;
(iii) ensure confidentiality in relation to counselling and support; and
(iv) encourage and facilitate student educational activities, recreational activities and student organiz ations.
ACADEMICS    STAFF :
9.  The university or institution shall formulate and implement on -
(a) staff recruitment, selection and promotion (which shall be consistent with those laid down by the Un iversity Grants
Commission, in the case of universitites in Sri Lanka), outlining the type, responsibilities and balance of academic staff
between teachers of the basic biomedical sciences, the behavioural and social sciences, and the clin ical sciences, in
order to deliver the curriculum adequately and maintain a balance between medical and non-medical academic staff, a
balance between full-time and part-time academic staff and a balance between the academic and non-academic staff;
(b) the responsibilities of its academic staff in teaching of the basic biomedical sciences, the behavio ural and social
seciences and the clinical sciences; and
(c) staff activity and development which-
(i) allow a balance between teaching, research and service functions;
(ii) ensure recognition of meritorious academic activities with appropriate emphasis on teaching, research and service
qualifications;
(iii) ensure that clinical service functions and research are employed in teaching and learning; and
(iv) support teacher training, achievement and appraisal.
10. The university or institution  shall -
(a) conform to teacher-student ratios, in that there shall be not less than one teacher for every fourteen medical students,
taking into account the permanent academic staff and the extended faculty of specialists in affiliated teaching hospitals
and other health care setttings;
(b) ensure that all medically qualified staff engaged in patient care are registered with the designated body responsible for
registration of medical professions in the relevant country;
(c) have a minimum of one-half of the academic staff in the permanent cadre who are holders of doctoral level post-
graduate qualifications; and
(d) ensure that every individual staff member has sufficient knowledge of the organization of the medical curriculum.
EDUCATIONAL   RESOURCES :
11. The University or institution shall have sufficient physical facilities for its staff and students to ensure that the curriculum
can be delivered adequately.  The physical facilities herein referred to shall include-
(a) a minimum of two lecture halls with good acoustics and audio-visual aids and seating capacity for the total number
of students in each batch, examination hall (s) that can accommodate all students in onebatch at a given time; and

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'01'266  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  26.01.2018
an adequate number of smaller classrooms for tutorials and small group ativities.  If an intake of a batch is of one
hundred students per year then it shall have a minimum of twelve class rooms/tutorial rooms with seating capacity
for a minimum of fifteen students in each, and for a larger student intake, these facilities shall be correspondingly
greater;
(b) appropriate laboratories and museums for teaching the basic biomedical sciences with a learning envi ronment
which is safe for the staff and the students; and
(c) a library with current editions of medical text books and reference books and periodicals, with adequate facilities to
have access, through the internet or otherwise, to local and international medical journals.
12. The University or institution shall have access to at least one teaching hospital with university or  institutions units,
which may be supplemented by other affiliated hospitals to provide students with for teaching, adequ ate clinical
experience including sufficient number and variety of patients, and clinical training facilities with adequate supervision.
The hospitals used for teaching shall include training facilities in the major clinical specialties as specified in Standard
5 (d): internal medicine and related subspecialities (including cardiology, dermatology, neurology a nd venereology/
sexually transmitted diseases); surgery and related specialties (including anaesthesiology, ophthalmology, orthopaedic
sugery, and oto-rhino-laryngology); obstetrics & gynaecology, paediatrics and neonatology; and psychiatry, accident
and emergency care.
If an intake of a batch is of one hundred students per year, then it shall have access to one or more affiliated hospitals
used for teaching, with a minimum of seven hundred beds, including the university units (with at lea st one hundred
beds each in internal medicine, general surgery, obstetrics & gynaecology and paediatrics and thirty beds in psychiatry),
and notching a bed occupancy rate of a minimum of 75% in the preceding year.  For a larger student i ntake these
facilities shall be proportionately greater.  Where more than one affiliated hospital is used for  teaching, all hospitals
collectively should provide the services expected of a teaching hospitals, e.g. laboratory services in Pathology,
Biochemistry and Microbiology and radiology.imagining services.
13. The university or institution shall have access to a field practice area to provide students with ad equate community-
based clinical experience and access to facilities for training in clinical forensic medicine and pathology as required in
Standard 5(b).
14. Other amenities for students shall include-
(i) adequate study space, lounges and wash rooms;
(ii)  information technology facilities;
(iii) recreational facilities;
(iv) extra-curricular activities;
(v) catering and housing facilities;
(vi) access to  healthcare facilities; and
(vii) transportation facilities.
15. The university or institution shall formulate and implement policies that -
(a) address appropriate use of the information and communication technology in the Educational Programme;
(b) foster the relationship between medical research and education and describe the research  faclities and priorities;
(c) allow access to educational expertise where required and in particular, in curriculum development and in development
of teaching and assessment methods, in that they deal with the process, practice and problems of medical education;
and
(d) pave the way for national and international collaboration with other educational institutions.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'01'26 7 A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  26.01.2018
PROGRAMME   EVALUATION :
16. The university or institution shall-
(a) have a programme put in place for routine monitoring of its educational process and outcome;
(b) establish and apply a mechanism for programme evaluation, which -
(i) addresses the curriculum and its main components;
(ii) addresses student's progress;
(iii) identifies and addresses concerns; and
(iv) ensures the relevant results of evaluation influence the curriculum;
(c) self-evaluate its educational programme every five years by comprehensively addressing the context of its educational
process, the specific components of the curriculum and the overall outcome and it social accountability;
(d) systematically seek, analyze and respond to teacher and student feedback and use the feedback results for programme
development.
(e) analyze performance of cohorts of students and graduates in relation to its mission and intended educational outcome,
its curriculum and provision of resources; and
(f) engage its academic staff and students in, management and governance, and in monitoring and evaluati on of its
educational programme.
GOVERNANCE   AND   MANAGEMENT :
17. The university or institution shall-
(a) define its governance structures and functions and, where relevant, their relationship within the university or institution.
The governance structures shall set out the committee structure and reflect representataion from aca demic staff,
students and other stakeholders;
(b) ensure transparency of the work of governance and its decisions;
(c) define the responsibilities of its academic leadership for management of its educational programme;
(d) have a clear line of responsibility and authority for resourcing the curriculum through a  dedicated educational budget
and allcating the resources necessary for the implementation of the curriculum and educational needs;
(e) have an administrative and professional staff that is appropriate to support the implementation of i ts educational
programme and related activities and ensure good management and resouce deployment; and
(f) have constructive interaction with the health and health related sectors of the society and governme nt.
CONTINUAL   RENEWAL:
18. The university or institution shall conduct periodic institutional evaluation . review of the mission, outcome, admission
process and its effectiveness, educational programmes and their relevance, resources, facilities and   the like to be
undertaken by an independent evaluation team.
19. Every university or institution as dynamic and socially accountable entity shall conduct regular int ernal review, the
coutcome of which may be used for -
(a) updating its structure and functions;
(b)  rectifying its deficiencies, and
(c) allocating resouces for continuous renewal.
02 - 383
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING ,  SRI  LANKA.