

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 224]
————————
Presented by Hon. Prime Minister and Minister of Buddha Sasana and
Religious Affairs on March 08, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on February 26, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
2-2d
MARRIAGE REGISTRATION (AMENDMENT)
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to amend the Marriage Registration Ordinance (Chapter 112)

<!-- page 2 -->

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT
Clause 2 :  This clause amends section 24 of the Marriage Registration Ordinance (Chap-
ter 112) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) by specifying the mode of
payment of fees to the registrar of the division and the District Registrar.
Clause 3 :  This clause amends section 27 of the principal enactment by revising the
amount of fees to be paid to the District Registrar and specifying the mode of payment.
Clause 4 :  This clause amends section 34 by specifying the fees to be paid to the Registrar.
Clause 5 :  This clause amends section 38 by revising the amount of fees to be paid and
specifies the mode of payment.
Clause 6 :  This clause amends section 51 by requiring the applicant to pay an amount in
place of affixing stamps.
Clause 7 :  This clause amends section 62 of the principal enactment by giving the power
to the Minister to revise fees enumerated in the second schedule by rules published in the
Gazette.
Clause 8 :  This clause replaces the second schedule to this Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

1Marriage Registration (Amendment)
Short title
and date of
operation.
5
10
15
20
2—PL 007047—1,600 (03/2013)
25
L.D.—O. 6/2013.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE MARRIAGE REGISTRATION ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 112)
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Marriage Registration
(Amendment) Act, No.     of  2013 and shall be deemed to have
come into operation from January 1, 2013.
2. Section 24 of the Marriage Registration Ordinance
(Chapter 112) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the repeal of subsection
(6) of that section, and the substitution therefor, of the
following subsection :—
“(6) Every notice to a Registrar of a Division or to a
District Registrar as the case may be, under subsection
(1), (2) or (3) of section 23 or every notice under subsection
(4) thereof, shall be accompanied by a receipt issued by
the Registrar of such Division or such District Registrar
as the case may be, in proof of payment of a sum of rupees
ten or a sum of rupees thirty respectively or such other
amount as may be prescribed by the Minister from time to
time.”.
3. Section 27 of the principal enactment is hereby
amemded by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section and
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—
“(4) Where the declaration is made before the District
Registrar, the party making the declaration shall pay rupees
one hundred or such amount as may be prescribed by the
Minister from time to time and where the declaration is
made before the Registrar of a Division it shall be
accompanied by a receipt issued by the District Registrar
in proof of payment of a sum of rupees one hundred or
such amount as may be prescribed.”.
Amendment
of section 24
of the
Marriage
Registration
Ordinance
(Chapter
112).
Amendment
of section 27
of the
principal
enactment.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Marriage Registration (Amendment)2
4. Section 34 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (5) of that section and
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—
“(5) The minister shall, within seven days from the
date of the solemnizing of the marriage, separate from the
register book the duplicate statement of the marriage and
transmit the same to the District Registrar within whose
district the marriage was solemnized together with a fee
specified in the second schedule to this Act, as may be
prescribed by the Minister from time to time, which is
payable to such Registrar for the registration of such
marriage.”.
5. Section 38 of  the principal enactment is hereby
amemded by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—
“(2) In case the female party belongs to a class other
than that described in the preceding subsection or is in
the opinion of the District Registrar, not entitled to the
benefits of that subsection, it shall be lawful for the District
Registrar upon the application of one of the parties to the
indented marriage, and which application shall be
accompanied by a receipt issued by the District Registrar
in proof of payment of a sum of rupees three thousand
five hundred or such othe amount as may be prescribed
by the Minister from time to time, to issue a license
empowering a registrar to solemnize the marriage at such
place and hour as the parties my prefer and as they may be
named in this licence.”.
6. Section 51 of the principal enactment is hereby
amemded by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—
“(2) The applicant shall pay in respect of every written
application and in respect of every certified copy or
certified extract thereof such amount as may be prescribed
by the Minister from time to time.”.
Amendment
of section 34
of the
principal
enactment.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Amendment
of section 38
of the
principal
enactment.
35
Amendment
of section 51
of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

3Marriage Registration (Amendment)
7. Section 62 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “the fees enumerated in the second schedule”
of the words “the fees enumerated in the second schedule
which may be prescribed by the Minister from time to
time,”.
8. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment as
last amended by Act, No. 36 of 2006, is hereby  repealed and
the following schedule substituted therefor :—
“SECOND SCHEDULE (Section 62)
For what Duty Payable to Payable Amount
whom by whom (Rs.)
1 Entering a notice Registrar Applicant
of marriage at his
office or at any
other place 100.00
2 Entering a notice Additional Applicant
of marriage at his District
office or at any Registrar or
other place District
Registrar 100.00
3 Issuing Registrar’s Registrar Parties to
certificate on a notice marriage
of marriage 100.00
4 Issuing Registrar’s Additional Parties to
certificate on a notice District marriage
of marriage Registrar or
District
Registrar 100.00
5 Solemnizing Registrar Parties to
marriage in his marriage
office 750.00
5
Amendment
of section 62
of the
principal
enactment.
Replacement
of the second
schedule to
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

Marriage Registration (Amendment)4
6 Registration of District Parties to
marriage solemnized Registrar marriage
in registered place
of public worship 750.00
7 Solemnizing Additional Parties to
marriage in his District marriage
office Registrar or
District
Registrar 750.00
8 Solemnizing Registrar Parties to
marriage outside his marriage
office under
section 38 1500.00
9 Solemnizing Additional Parties to
marriage outside his District marriage
office under Registrar or
section 38 District
Registrar 1500.00
9. Any  fees charged or collected by or on behalf of the
Registrar- General or any person authorised under this Act,
for any purpose authorized by this Act to charge or collect,
from January 1, 2013 and ending on March 31, 2013, shall be
deemed to have been validly charged or collected by the
Registrar- General or by any such person authorised under
this Act:
Provided that, the aforesaid provisions of this section shall
not affect any decision or order made by any Court or any
proceedings pending in any Court in respect of any fee charged
or collected during the aforesaid period.
5
10
Validation
and
Indemnity.
“SECOND SCHEDULE (Section 62)
For what Duty Payable to Payable Amount
whom by whom (Rs.)

<!-- page 7 -->

5Marriage Registration (Amendment)
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 8 -->

Marriage Registration (Amendment)6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .