

<!-- page 1 -->

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 2026$27 – 2017 cQ,s ui 05 jeks nodod – 2017'07'05
No. 2026/27 – WEDNESDAY,  JULY 05, 2017
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
REGULATION OF INSURANCE INDUSTRY ACT, NO. 43 OF 2000
RULES made by the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka under Section 105 read with Sections 89B and 89 C(1) of the Regulation of
Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000.
Chairperson,
Insurance Board of Sri Lanka.
Colombo,
5th July, 2017.
Rules
1 . These Rules may be cited as the Loss Adjuster Registration Rules 2017.
2  .    (1)  No person shall apply to be registered as a loss adjuster or continue to act or hold out as a loss adjuster, unless
the  individual-
  (a) is above eighteen years of age;
(b) is a resident of Sri Lanka;
PG 3597 – 17 (2017/07)
L.D.B. 6/2001
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'07'05
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2017
2A
(c) has the following qualification:-
(i)  an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Loss Adjusters of the United Kingdom;
(ii) an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Loss Adjusters of Australia;
(iii)    an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute of the United Kingdom;
(iv) an Associate of the Insurance Institute of India;
 or
(v)  any other relevant qualifications approved by the Board;
       or
(vi) at least ten years appropriate experience in investigating and assessing losses under insurance  claims;
(d) is fit and proper;
(e) has two years appropriate experience in investigating and assessing losses under insurance claims;
(f)  is covered by an adequate professional liability insurance with a policy limit of at least five million rupees;
and
(g) is not a director, a senior manager, an officer, a shareholder or an employee of an insurer, insurance agent or
broker.
(2) Any person who applies to be registered as a loss adjuster may make an application in the form set out in
           Schedule I hereto.
            3  .    (1)  No company shall apply to be registered as a loss adjuster or continue to act or hold out as a loss adjuster,
            unless the company-
(a) is duly registered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of  2007;
(b) has as its key personnel those who are fit and proper in terms of skills and experience;
(c) covered by a professional liability insurance with a policy limit of at least ten million rupees;
(d) has majority of the Board of Directors and individuals who investigate and assess insurance losses
having requirements specified under rule 2 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (g) while being employed by or, working under
the direction of such company;
(e) is not a holding or associate company or subsidiary of an insurer, insurance agent or broker; and
(f) specifically declares that a shareholder, a senior manager, an officer or a director of the company is not a
director, a senior manager, an officer, a shareholder  or an employee of an insurer, insurance agent or broker.
(2) Any company which applies to be registered as a loss adjuster may make an application in the form setout
in Schedule II hereto.
4 . Registration fee shall be paid to the Board as follows-
Category of applicant Amount (SLR)
First calendar year
Individual 25,000.00
Company 75,000.00

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'07'05
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2017
5 . After the first calendar year, registration fees shall be paid to the Board before the end of January each year as
follows-
Category of applicant       Amounts (SLR)
Individual 15,000.00
Company 50,000.00
6. All persons acting or holding out as loss adjusters on the date of publication  in the Gazette of these Rules shall
apply for registration within six months of publication of these rules.
7. In these Rules -
“Act ’’ means the Rugulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000;
“Board’’ means the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka established under Section 2 of the Act;
“company’’ means a company within the meaning of the Companies Act, No. 7 of  2007;
“insurer’’, “insurance agent” and “broker’’ shall have the same meanings as in the  Act;
“loss adjuster’’ means a person  who has specialized knowledge in investigating and  assessing losses
    arising from insurance claims and registered as a loss adjuster under the Act.
SCHEDULE  1
APPLICATION  FOR  REGISTRA TION  AS  A  LOSS  ADJUSTER
(FOR  INDIVIDUALS)
(Application made under the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of  2000)
   Reference No.
Registration fee -
      First year Rs.
       Annual paymet Rs
To: The Director General,
      Insurance Board of Sri Lanka,
      Level 11, East Tower,
      World Trade Centre,
      Colombo 01.
The undersigned, ................................................................................ (full name of the applicant)  [resident in/ citizen of]
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka applies for registration as  a Loss Adjuster under section 89C(1) of the
Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000  and  furnishes the following information with relevant support
ing documents for evaluation to the Insurance  Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL).

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'07'05
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2017
4A
1. Name of theApplicant:
2. Registered Address:
(i) Address:
(ii) Telephone:
(iii) Fax:
(iv) E mail:
3. Business Address:
(i) Address:
(ii) Telephone:
(iii) Fax:
(iv) E mail:
4. Date of Birth:
(Attach a copy of the Birth Certificate)
5. National Identity Card No./ Passport No.:
6. Academic and Professional Qualifications, memberships and experience:
(Attach copies)
7. Have you submitted Professional Liability Insurance with a policy limit of at least five million
rupees?
  If not, provide an explanation on a separate sheet attached to this form.
 (Attach copies of Professional Liability Insurance policies to be effective on and from the date of
  registration.)
8. Have you served as a Board member or an employee of IBSL at any time during the period of three
years prior to submitting this application?
9. *Have you been convicted by any competent court in Sri Lanka or of any other country, for a crime?
10. *Have you been declared an undischarged insolvent or a bankrupt under any law of Sri Lanka or of
   any other country?
11. *Have you failed to satisfy  any judgement or order given by any competent court in Sri Lanka or of
  any other country, pertaining to the repayment of a debt or payment of civil damages?
12.  *Have you been declared by a competent court in Sri Lanka or of any other country, to be of unsound
  mind?
13. *Have you been prevented, removed or suspended by a regulatory or other authority or a competent
  court from serving as a director, chief executive officer, or any other position of authority in any insurance
company, broker, insurance agent, bank, financial institution or corporate body, within or outside Sri Lanka?
14.  * Have you been a director, chief excutive officer, principal officer, or specified officer or held any other
         position of authority in any insurance company, broker, insurance agent, bank, financial institution or
         corporate body–
*If yes, please provide full details and explain why IBSL should nevertheless decide that the Applicant is fit and
proper (on a separate sheet attached to this form.)

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'07'05
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2017
(i) whose license or other authority granted for carrying on business has been suspended or cancelled? or
(ii) which has been wound up or is being wound up or compulsorily liquidated or place in to administration within or
outside Sri Lanka?
15. Experience in investigating and assessing losses under insurance claims and related matters:
Name of the Company Position held Brief description of the Period
work carried out
(Attach copies or certificates of other evidence, if any)
16. Are you a director, a senior manager, an officer, a shareholder or an employee of an insurer, an insurance agent or a
broker?
17. On a separate sheet attached to this form, provide any other information of which IBSL should reasonably be aware in
order to assess whether you are fit and proper.
18. Certification:
I declare and confirm that to the best of my knowledge and belief the information and documents given above or attached are
complete, true and not misleading.
                                         Signature of the Applicant:
Date:
Instuctions for filling the form:
(1) It is important that before this application form is completed, the provisions of the Act and the Loss Adjuster Registration
Rules published in Gazette Extraordinary number 2026/27 dated 05th July 2017 are understood and studied carefully.
(2) Applicants must submit a duly completed application form together with all appropriate supporting documents to IBSL.
All information and documents requested in the application form should be furnished. If there are no items to be
recorded, please state ‘‘Not Applicable’’.  Indicate on the form where separate information sheets have been attached.
(3) The registration fee of twenty five thousand rupees with applicable taxes shall be paid by an account payee cheque/
bank draft drawn in favor of the ‘‘Insurance Board of Sri Lanka’’.
(4) Copies of documents annexed to the application should be certified by a Commissioner for Oaths or a Justice of the
Peace as being true copies of the originals.
(5) An application for registration will be considered only if it is complete in all respects.
(6) Failure to submit the information and documents required under this application or any information or doucument
required by IBSL may delay the processing of the application.
(7) If the application is withdrawn by the applicant prior to registration, only fifty per centum of the fee (exclusive of taxes)
paid will be refunded.
(8) Submitting false or misleading information to IBSL is an offence under the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43
of  2000.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'07'05
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2017
6A
SCHEDULE  II
APPLICA TION   FOR   REGISTRATION   AS   A LOSS   ADJUSTER
(FOR  A C OMPANY)
(Application made under the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000)
Reference No.
Registration fee –
First year Rs.
Annual payment Rs.
To: The Director General,
Insurance Board of Sri Lanka,
Level 11, East Tower,
World Trade Centre,
Colombo 01.
The undersigned, .................................... (being a director, secretary or other authorized officer of the applicant company) apply
on behalf of the applicant company for registration as a Loss Adjuster under Section 89C(1) of the Regulation of Insurance
Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000 and furnish the following information with relevant supporting documents for evaluation to the
Insurance Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL).
1. Name of the Applicant company:
2. Is the applicant company registered under the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007?
(Attach a copy of the Certificate of Incorporation and Articles of Association certified by the Registrar General of
Companies)
3. Registered Address:
(i) Telephone:
(ii) Fax:
(iii) E mail:
4 .  Principal place of business (if different from the registered address):
(i) Telephone:
(ii)     Fax:
(iii)    E mail:
5  .     Names of all Directors:
(Attach a copy of the most recent Form 20 of the applicant company certified by the Registrar General of
  Companies and affidavits from each director confirming and declaring that the director complies with the
    requirements of rule 3.)
6  .     Names and positions of Senior Managers and Officers:
 7  .     Names of shareholders and percent shareholding:
 (Attach a copy of the most recent Form 06 of the applicant company certified by the Registrar General of
  Companies)
  8  .     Paid up Share (Stated) Capital:

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'07'05
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2017
9  .     Academic and professional qualifications and experience of senior managers, officers and other key personnel of
       the applicant company:
10 .     Names of directors and all individuals investigating and assessing losses under insurance claims while employed
        by, or working under the direction of, the applicant company:
  (These individuals must meet the requirements of Rules 2 (a) to (d) and (g) - see note (4) below).
11  .     Has a director, officer or other key individual of the applicant company served as a Board member or an employee
       of  IBSL during the period of three years prior to submitting this application?
12  .   *Has a director, officer or other key individual of the applicant company been convicted by any competent court
        in Sri Lanka or of any country, for a crime?
13  .   *  Has a director, officer or other key individual of the applicant company or the applicant company itself been
           declared an undischarged insolvent or a bankrupt under any law of Sri Lanka or of any other country?
14  .   *  Has a director, officer or other key individual of the applicant company or the applicant company itself failed to
           satisfy any judgment or order given by any competent court in Sri Lanka or of any other country, pertaining to
           the repayment of a debt or payment of civil damages?
15  .   *  Has a director, officer or other key individual of the applicant company been removed or suspended by a
            regulatory or other authority or a competent court from serving as a directior, chief executive officer or any other
            position of authority in any insurance company, broker, insurance agent, bank, financial institution or corporate
           body, within or outside Sri Lanka?
16  .   *  Has a director, officer or other key individual of the applicant company been a director, chief officer, principal
           officer, or specified officer or held any other position of authority in any insurance company, broker, insurance
           agent, bank, financial institution or corporate body-
(i) whose license or other authority granted for carrying on business has been suspended cancelled?
        or
(ii)  which has been wound up or has been wound up or compulsorily liquidated or vested in an
        administrator within or outside Sri Lanka?
17 .   On a separate sheet attached to this form, please provide any other information of which IBSL should reasonably
          be aware in order to assess whether the applicant company is fit and proper.
18 .   Have you submitted Professional Liability Insurance with a policy limit of at least ten million rupees?
       If not, please provide an explanation on a separate sheet attached to this form.
      (Attach copies of Professional Liability Insurance Policies to be effective on and from the date of registration).
19 .   Is the applicant company a holding company or a subsidiary or an associate of an insurer, an insurance agent or
          a broker?
20 .   Is the shareholder, a senior manager, an officer or a director of the applicant company a director, a senior manager,
          an officer, a shareholder, an employee of an insurer, an insurance agent or a broker?
          
*If yes, please provide full details and explain why IBSL should nevertheless decide that the Applicant is fit and
       proper (on a separate sheet attached to this form).

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'07'05
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2017
8A
21 .   Certification:
     We declare and confirm that to the best of our knowledge and belief, the information and documents given above
         or attached are complete, true and not misleading.
         Name of Director or other Authorized Signatory (specify position):
         Signature of Director/Authorized Signatory:
        Date:
 Name of the Comapny Secretary:
        Signature of Company Secretary:
        Date:
Instruction for filling the forms:
(1) It is imporatant that before this application form is completed, the provisions of the Regulation of
Insurance  Industry Act and the Loss Adjuster Registration Rules  published in Gazette Extraordinary
number 2026/27 dated 05th July 2017 are understood and studied carefully.
(2) Applicants must submit a duly completed application form together with all appropriate supporting
documents. If there are no items to be recorded please state "Not Applicable". Please note on the form where
separate information sheets have been attached.
(3) Affidavits from each director of the applicant company shall be submitted confirming and declaring that the
           applicant company complies with Rule 3 of the Loss Adjuster Registration Rules.
(4) Each individual investigating and assessing insurance losses while employed by, or working under the
          direction of the applicant company should complete and submit the application form for
registration as a loss adjuster (for individuals) except in item 7 of same.
(5) The registration fee of seventy five thousand rupees (with applicable taxes) should be paid by an account
payee cheque/ bank draft drawn in favor of the "Insurance Board of Sri Lanka".
(6) Copies of documents annexed to the application shall be certified by a Commissioner for Oaths or a Justice
of the Peace as being true copies of the originals.
(7) An application for registration will not be considered unless duly completed
        (8) Failure to submit the information and documents required under this appliaction or any information or
document required by IBSL may delay the processing of the application.
        (9) If the application is withdrawn by the applicant prior to registraion, only fifty per centum of the fee
(exclusive of taxes) paid by the applicant company will be refunded.
(10)   Submitting false or misleading information to IBSL is an offence under the Regulation of Insurance Industry
Act, No. 43 of  2000.
07 - 640
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEP ARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING ,  SRI  LANKA.