

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 204 
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 202
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"162 – 2020 fmnrjdß ui 07 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'02'07
No. 2,162 –  fRiday ,  fEbRuaRy 07, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th february, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th february, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
199 - b 82005- 5,403 (02/2020)
Note.–  dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha boddha Educational daham Sabhawa (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the 
Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 24, 2020.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
200
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
201
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
202
Posts – vacant
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA
Post of Assistant Director (Administration) 
(on contract basis) 
A Human Resources Development Office is due to be 
established under the department of administration of 
Parliament in order to carry out all Human Resource 
development activities on the staff of the Secretary General 
of Parliament with a view to enhancing the abilities of the 
staff by offering local and foreign training courses so as to 
equip the staff of the Secretary General of Parliament with 
the knowledge and skills required to carry out the legislative 
and administrative functions of Parliament of Sri Lanka 
more efficiently and effectively.
in order to recruit the assistant director (administration), 
for a period of two years on contract basis, as the head of 
the Human Resources Office to be established to achieve 
the above-mentioned objectives, applications are called 
from citizens of Sri Lanka who possess an excellent moral 
character and of sound health.
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
application form given below should be sent to reach 
the “Secretary General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri 
Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura, Kotte” on or before the 24
th 
february 2020 under registered post. “Post of assistant 
director (administration)” should be written on the top left 
hand corner of the envelope. (this advertisement is available 
on the website www.parliament.lk)
Nature of duties and responsibilities relating to the 
post :
the new Head of the Human Resources development 
Office should bear the overall responsibility of developing a 
human resource plan, developing an annual training plan in 
order to meet the needs of identifying the specific training 
requirements of the staff, identifying the resource persons 
and directing the staff towards that systematically and 
implementing it and directing the office in order to achieve 
the afore-mentioned objectives and monitoring them.
He/ She is expected to build and maintain a positive 
service environment based on a properly developed plan 
with a view to motivating the members of the staff, assist in 
the formulation of human resource policies and procedures 
and ensure the strict compliance to them.
1.  Salary.– an allowance of Rs.125,000/= would be paid 
during the contract period.
2. Educational, Professional qualifications and 
experience.– a degree on Human Resources Management 
obtained from a recognized university or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the university Grants commission ;
And
at least 5 years’ experience on a post of  Head of  
Human Resources/ Human Resources Manager in a public 
corporation, Statutory body or the private sector upon 
securing the above qualifications.
3. Age limit.– Not relevant.
4. Method of recruitment.– Recruitment will be made 
upon a review made on the educational qualifications, 
professional qualifications and subject related knowledge, 
experience in the field, communication skills and the 
personality of the candidate through a structured interview 
conducted by a board of interview appointed by the Secretary 
General of Parliament.
5.  Terms and Conditions of Service :
 (i) it is basically expected to recruit a suitable 
person on contract basis for a period of two 
years and consideration of the extension of that 
period will be made on the achievement of the 
expected objectives and performance of the 
department during that period. the selected 
candidate should sign a service agreement with 
the appointing authority.
 (ii) the selected candidate will be a contributor to 
the Public Employees’ Provident fund during 
the contract period in terms of the Pension 
circular of 07/2015 dated 23.07.2015. in that, 
8% of the monthly allowance should be paid 
for the Public Employees’ Provident fund and 
Parliament will credit 12% to this fund.
 (iii) Prior to the appointment of the selected 
candidate, Security clearance Reports will be 
obtained on him/ her.
6. The copies of the following certificates (not originals) 
should be attached to the application by the candidates and 
produced when called upon to do so.
 (a) Birth Certificate.
 (b) Certificates confirming educational qualifications.
 (c) Certificated confirming professional qualifications.
 (d) Certificates confirming experience.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
203
7. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification for 
this post.
8. any information in the application found to be 
incorrect disclosed before selection will render the applicant 
liable for disqualification, and to dismissal, if discovered 
after appointment.
9. applications received after the closing date or sent 
without copies of the above mentioned certificates or 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form will be rejected. 
 W. b. d. 
Dasanayake,
 Secretary General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka, 
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte,
07th
 february, 2020.
PaRLiaMENt of SRi LaNKa
specimen application Form
post oF assistant Director 
(aDministration) (on contract basis) 
01.  (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––. 
  (b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/t amil)  :  
––––––––––––. 
  (c) full Name (in block capitals): Mr./Mrs./Miss : 
––––––––––. 
02.  N.i.c. Number :
03.  (a) Private address :–––––––––––. 
   t elephone No. : 
  (b) Official Address  :–––––––––––. 
   t elephone No. :
  (c) Please indicate the address the calling letter for the 
interview to be posted.
   Private                      Office
  
04.  (a) date of birth :–––––––––––. 
   (A copy of the Birth Certificate should be attached) 
  (b) age as at closing date for applications: 
   y ears :–––––––. Months :–––––––. days :––––––.
05. civil Status: (Married/unmarried) :–––––––––––. 
06. Gender: (Male/female) :–––––––––––. 
07. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka: (yes/No) :––––––. 
08. Higher Educational Qualifications: (Copies of the 
certificates should be attached)
Degree Subjects University Year
   
09. Professional Qualifications (copies of the certificates 
should be attached ) :–––––––––––. 
10. Experience (Copies of the Certificates Should be 
attached) :
Institution Post Service Period
11. details of Present Employment:
 (a) Name and address of the institution :–––––––––––. 
 (b) Present Post :–––––––––––. 
 (c)  date of first appointment :–––––––––––. 
 (d) Monthly basic salary :–––––––––––. 
 (e) allowances :–––––––––––. 
 (f)  Gross Salary :–––––––––––. 
12.  Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of Law? (yes / No) :–––––––––––. 
 if yes, give details :–––––––––––. 
13. Have you served under the Government before?                           
(yes / No) :–––––––––––. 
 if yes, give details :–––––––––––. 
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualifie d for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
204
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.  
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(Only for applicants serving in the Public Co-operations 
and Statutory bodies)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs 
/Miss ............................... holding the post of ...................
.................................... in this institution. i certify that he/
she has been confirmed/not confirmed in this post and his/
her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is 
no intention to make such inquiry. He/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.   
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of department/
 institution.
 (Official Stamp) 
date :–––––––––––––.  
02–150
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
EDuCATION SERvICES COmmITTEE Of ThE PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Education
LiMitEd coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR REcRuitiNG to GRadE iii of tHE SRi LaNKa tEacHER 
EducatoRS’ SERVicE - 2019(2020)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the officers who have fulfilled the following qualifications to fill 706 vacancies in Grade 
iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service in the National colleges of Education, teachers’ training colleges and 
teachers’ centers which are under the purview of the Ministry of Education through an Limited competitive Examination 
by order of the Education Services committee of the Public Service commission.
Applications prepared according to the specimen application form indicated at the end of this notification should 
be sent through registered post to reach, “the commissioner General of Examinations, organizations (institutional foreign 
Examinations) branch, department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, Post box 1503, colombo on or before the date mentioned 
below. the caption, “Limited competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ 
Service - 2019” should be clearly mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope. further, the title of the Examination 
in the Sinhala applications should be mentioned in English in addition to the Sinhala Language and in tamil applications in 
English in addition to the tamil language.
the closing date of applications - 06.03.2020
the complaints regarding loss or delay of an application or a related letter in post are not considered. the candidates 
themselves should bear the losses that may happen due to delaying the applications until the closing date of applications.
01. Scheme of Recruitment :
 (a) the recruitment will be made on the results of a written examination, a general interview, an aptitude 
testing interview and a practical examination. candidates similar to thrice the number of vacancies will 
be called for the general interview among those who have scored minimum pass mark of 40% or more for 
each subject in the written Examination. Only the candidates who are confirmed to have fulfilled the basic 
qualifications at the general interview will be called for the aptitude testing interview and the practical 
examination. the marks scored by the candidates in the written Examination will not be provided to the 
boards of Examiners of the aptitude testing interview and practical examination.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
205
Note 01 - obtaining minimum pass mark of 40% or more for each subject in the written Examination does not 
mean that the candidate will be compulsorily called for the interview.
 (b) No marks will be given for the general interview. Whether the candidates have fulfilled the qualifications 
stipulated in the recruitment notice in every aspect will be examined therein. The officers who do not have 
basic qualifications will not be called for the aptitude testing interview and the practical examination.
 (c) The marking schemes for the aptitude testing interview and the practical examination have been specified 
in Table 05 and 06 of this notification. The general interview, aptitude testing interview and practical 
examination will be conducted by a board of interviewers appointed by the Education Services committee 
of the Public Service commission. a number of candidates similar to the number of vacancies will be 
recruited from the candidates who have obtained the minimum pass marks for the written examination, 
practical examination under the aptitude testing interview according to the merit order of marks obtained 
by candidates based on the total marks. in case of more than one candidate scored similar marks, 
Education Services committee of the Public Service commission reserves the right of taking decision in 
that regard. the effective date of appointment and the number appointments will be determined by the 
Education Services committee of the Public Service commission. the Education Services committee 
of the Public Service Commission reserves the authority to fill a certain number of vacancies or all the 
vacancies. the written examination is held in Sinhala, tamil and English Mediums and a candidate can 
apply for the examination in one medium of language according to his/her preference. Recruitments will 
be made in the same language medium of sitting the written Examination. Every candidate should sit and 
pass the written examination in the language medium of the subject applied for and should appear for 
the practical examination in the same language medium. The educational qualifications and experiences 
specified under no.04 of this notification should be in the same language medium applied in.
 (d) the number of vacancies expected to be filled by the Limited competitive Examination has been given 
in table no.01. the vacancies that exist in the National colleges of Education, teachers’ training colleges 
and Teachers’ Centers will be filled by these recruitments based on the merit order of marks of the 
candidates who are to be recruited. table 02 indicates the no. of vacancies available by National colleges 
of Education, teachers’ training colleges and teachers’ centers. a candidate can apply for 03 subjects 
under one medium of language from the vacancies listed below. If one candidate is qualified for several 
subjects, the subject for which the candidate is recruited will be decided based on the order of the subjects 
applied by him/her. the order of the subject mentioned in the application cannot be changed later by the 
candidate.
table 01: Limited basis recruitment to Grade iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service.
No. of vacancies by subjects and medium of language as at 06.08.2019
Serial
No. Subject Sinhala Tamil english Total
1 V ocational Subject 111 47 19 177
2 Sinhala Language (Mother tongue) 44 0 0 44
3 Sinhala Language (Second Language) 34 0 0 34
4 tamil Language (Mother tongue) 0 17 0 17
5 tamil Language (Second Language) 0 66 0 66
6 English 0 0 88 88
7 Health and Physical Education 20 9 1 30
8 dancing (Eastern) 12 0 0 12
9 dancing (bharatha) 0 5 0 5

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
206
Serial
No. Subject Sinhala Tamil english Total
10 Music (Eastern) 10 0 0 10
11 Music (Karnataka) 0 9 0 9
12 Western Music 0 0 3 3
13 art 16 8 0 24
14 drama and Performing art 10 3 0 13
15 information and communication technology 6 5 5 16
16 Primary Education
161 Mother tongue 3 4 0 7
162 aesthetic Education and creative 8 8 0 16
163 Physical Education 3 4 0 7
164 Special Education 1 1 0 2
165 English 0 0 10 10
166 Science 4 1 0 5
167 Mathematics 11 5 0 16
168 Environment related activities 10 5 0 15
169 Religion 4 2 0 6
17 buddhism 8 0 0 8
18 catholicism 2 1 0 3
19 christianity 2 1 0 3
20 Hinduism 0 3 0 3
21 islam 0 3 0 3
22 Mathematics 2 1 3 6
23 biology 2 1 1 4
24 chemistry 1 1 1 3
25 Physics 2 0 1 3
26 Mechanical technology 0 1 0 1
27 construction technology 1 0 0 1
28 Electrical and Electronic technology 0 1 0 1
29 arts and crafts (clay crafts and Handicrafts) 1 1 0 2
30 civic Education 4 4 1 9
31 History 2 1 0 3
32 Geography 1 1 0 2
33 agricultural Science 1 1 0 2
34 Special Education 1 4 0 5
35 Home Economics 1 5 0 6
36 Entrepreneurial Studies 1 1 0 2
37 Management Studies 1 3 0 4
Total 340 233 133 706

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
207
Table 02 : No. of vacancies for Grade iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service in National colleges of Education, 
teachers’ training colleges and teachers’ centers as at 06.08.2019. 
Institute Sinhala Tamil english Total
National colleges of Education 139 80 34 253
teacher centers 156 97 64 317
teacher training colleges 45 56 35 136
340 233 133 706
02. Conditions of employing in the service :
 i.  the candidates will be appointed to the Grade iii of the Service subjected to the conditions imposed in the 
Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service Minute which had been published in the Gazette (Extra-ordinary) 
No. 1925/37 dated 28.07.2015 of the democratic socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and as per the revisions 
made thereafter to the Service Minute by the Gazette Nos. 2141/73 dated 19.09.2019 and 2153/06 dated 
09.12.2019 and the revisions that will be made to the Service Minute hereinafter and the general conditions 
which govern the appointments made to the Public Service.
 II.  The officers appointed to this post will be subjected to an acting period of one year.
 III.  The first efficiency bar examination should be passed prior to exceeding 03 years subsequent to the 
appointment to the Grade iii of the teacher Educators’ Service.
 iV . in terms of the Public administration circular No. 01/2014 and the circulars incidental thereto, the relevant 
proficiency in the other Official Language should be obtained within a period of five (05) years from the 
date of appointment. Officers who have recruited to service in a language medium other than an official 
language should obtain the proficiency in one of the official languages within the period of three (03) years 
and an officer who has recruited to service should obtain the proficiency in the English Language which 
is the Link language within the period of three (03) years from the date of recruitment to the service. if 
an officer has passed the English Language with a Credit pass or a higher pass at the G.C.E. (Ordinary 
Level) Examination, such officers are exempted from the requirement of passing the Link Language Test. 
The other officers should pass the Examination indicated in the Schedule “VIII” of the Service Minute. An 
officer recruited to the Service from the English Medium is exempted from this requirement.
 V.  the Procedural rules of the Public Service commission, circulars issued on the Public Service from time 
to time, the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service Minute and the conditions of the revisions made to the 
Service Minute are applicable to this Post.
 Vi. the appointees should reside within the limit of National college of Education, teachers’ training colleges 
or teachers’ centers when residential facilities are provided. it is permitted to reside within a limited 
distance when residential facilities are not provided. However, when housing facilities are provided within 
the limit of the National colleges of Education, teachers’ training colleges and teachers’ centers, the 
appointees should reside in therein.
 Vii.  the recruitments are made base on the vacancies existing in National colleges of Education, teachers’ 
training colleges and teachers’ centers and the appointees should agree to serve in any National college 
of Education, teachers’ training college or teachers’ center which is given on the merit order of the 
recruitment test.
03. Salary Scale.– a Salary Scale of Rs. 47,615 - 10x1, 335- 8x1,630-17x2,170-Rs. 110,895 (Monthly) of SL-01 
-2016 as per the Public administration circular No. 03/2006 is entitled to the Post.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
208
04. Qualifications and Experiences :
i. General Qualifications :
 (i) Should have an excellent moral character.
 (ii) Should be an officer confirmed in the post of 
Sri Lanka Education administrative Service 
or Sri Lanka Principals’ Service or in the Sri 
Lanka teachers’ Service belonging to the 
Public Service or Provincial Public Service.
 (iii) Should be an officer who has earned all the 
salary increments during the immediately 
preceding service period of five years or 
during the consolidated survive period of the 
Sri Lanka Education administrative Service 
or Sri Lanka Principals’ Service or Sri Lanka 
teachers’ Service belonging to the Public 
Service or Provincial Public Service without 
being subject to any disciplinary punishment 
during such period of service.
 (iv) No person is permitted to sit the Limited 
Examination for more than three (03) sittings.
 (v) Date of fulfilling the qualification - The 
applicants are considered to have fulfilled the 
qualifications required to sit the competitive 
examination for the recruitment to the 
service only if they have fulfilled all the 
qualifications specified from paragraph 04 to 
06 in every aspect on or before closing date 
of applications.
ii.  Educational Qualifications. – one of the 
following qualificatio ns obtained from a 
university recognized by the university Grants 
commission or from an institute recognized by 
the university Grant commission as being a 
degree awarding institute;
 (i) a basic degree with a class in the relevant 
discipline
 (ii) a basic degree in the relevant discipline 
and a Post Graduate degree related to that 
discipline
 (iii) a Post Graduate diploma in Education 
with, a basic degree in the relevant 
discipline or a Post Graduate diploma in 
Education in the relevant discipline.
 (iv) bachelor of Education degree in the 
relevant discipline.
 (v) a Post Graduate degree in Education with 
a basic degree in the relevant discipline.
Note 02 : a Post Graduate degree in 
Education with a basic degree in any 
discipline will be considered only for 
the V ocational Subject.
 (vi) Subject to the conditions stipulated 
under the note 05 as per the schedule 
07 of the Service Minute No. 1925/37 
dated 28.07.2015 and the revisions made 
thereto by the Gazettes (Extra-ordinary) 
No.2l4l/73 dated 19.09.2019 and 
2153/06 dated 09.12.2019, the minimum 
qualifications specified therein in respect 
of the following subjects are considered as 
alternative qualifications.
(a) Special education :
 (i) full time 05 years teaching 
experience in the relevant 
discipline with the Post Graduate 
degree including the subject of 
Special Education obtained from 
a recognized university; or
 (ii) Post Graduate diploma in 
the relevant discipline with 
the degree obtained from a 
recognized university or the 
National diploma in teaching on 
Special Education or the teacher 
Training Certificate on Special 
Education and the full time 06 
years teaching experience in the 
relevant discipline; or
 (iii) a degree in the relevant discipline 
obtained from a recognized 
university and full time 07 
years teaching experience in the 
relevant discipline; or
 (iv) National diploma in teaching 
on Special Education or the 
Teacher Training Certificate in 
the relevant discipline and the 
full time teaching experience not 
less than 07 years.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
209
(b) Information Technology :
 (i) a degree in information technol-
ogy/information communication 
technology/computer Science 
with first class or Second class 
from a recognized university; or
 (ii) a degree in information technol-
ogy/information communication 
technology/computer Science 
from a recognized university 
and a postgraduate degree in the    
relevant discipline; or
 (iii) a degree in information 
technology / information 
communication technology 
/ computer Science from 
a recognized university or 
a degree with information 
communication technology as a 
major subject from a recognized 
university and a postgraduate 
diploma in information 
communication technology 
and completion of not less 
than five years’ continuous 
service in teaching information 
communication technology; or
 (iv) a degree in information 
technology / information 
communication technology 
/ computer Science from a 
recognized university or a degree 
with information technology 
/ information communication 
technology / computer Science 
as a major subject from a 
recognized university and 
National diploma in teaching 
information communication 
technology and completion 
of not less than five years’ 
continuous service in teaching 
information communication 
technology; or
 (v) a degree in any discipline 
from a recognized university 
and a postgraduate diploma in 
information communication 
technology and completion of 
not less than 06 years’ continuous 
service in teaching information 
communication technology; or
 (vi) a degree in information technol-
ogy/information communication 
technology/computer Science 
from a recognized university 
and completion of not less than 
07 years’ continuous service in 
teaching information communi-
cation technology.
(c) Western Music :
 (i) a degree in the relevant discipline 
from a recognized university 
and not less than 07 years’  
teaching experience; or
 (ii) a degree from a recognized 
university and the National 
diploma in t eaching or t eacher 
Training Certificate in the relevant 
subject area and not less than 
07 years’ teaching experience;  
or
 (iii) National diploma in teaching 
Western     Music   or  teacher training 
Certificate in Western Music 
and not less than 07 years’ post 
qualification teaching experience; 
or
 (iv) a  d iploma  in the  relevant 
discipline conducted by department 
of Examinations and not less  
than 10 years’ teaching 
experience; or
 (v) a pass grade in Practical and 
Written tests of Western Music 
Grade viii Examination, conducted 
by one of the following 
institutions and not less than 
subsequent 07 years’ teaching 
experience;

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
210
(a) department of Examinations, Sri 
Lanka
(b) trinity college of Music, London
(c) Royal School of Music, London
(d) London college of Music
(e) institute of Western Music and 
Speech, colombo
(d) english :
 (i) a degree from a recognized 
university and  postgraduate 
diploma in teaching English as a 
Second Language along with 06 
years’ teaching experience; or
 (ii) National diploma in teaching 
English or English trained 
Teacher’s Certificate with not less 
than 07 years’ post qualification 
teaching experience.
(e) Physical education :
 (i) a degree in Physical Education 
from a recognized university and 
not less than 07 years’ teaching 
experience; or
 (ii) a diploma in Physical Education 
and Sports from a recognized 
university or the Ministry of 
Sports and the National diploma 
in teaching Physical Education 
and Sports or t rained t eacher’s 
Certificate in Physical Education 
and Sports and not less than 06 
years’ post qualification teaching 
experience; or
 (iii) a degree in any discipline from 
a recognized university and a 
postgraduate degree in Physical 
Education along with 06 years’ 
experience of teaching Physical 
Education; or
 (iv) a degree in any discipline from 
a recognized university and the 
National diploma in teaching 
Physical Education or trained 
Teacher’s Certificate in Physical 
Education with not less than 06 
years’ post qualification teaching 
experience.
(f) Technical Subjects :
 i. construction technology
 ii. Mechanical technology
 iii. arts and crafts
 i V. Electric and Electronic technology
 V . Home Economics
 (i) a degree in the relevant discipline 
from a recognized university and 
not less than 07 years teaching 
experience; or
 (ii) National diploma in teaching of 
the relevant subject or trained 
Teacher’s Certificate along with 
not less than 07 years’ teaching 
experience ; or
 (iii) a  degree from a recognized 
university and the National 
diploma in teaching of the 
relevant subject or trained 
Teacher’s Certificate along with 
not less than 06 years’ teaching 
experience; or
 (iv) National diploma in teaching of 
the relevant subject or trained 
Teachers’ Certificate along with 
not less than 06 years’ teaching 
experience and any one of the 
following certificates:
(a) Higher National diploma 
in technology or Higher 
National Certificate in 
technology
(b) National diploma in 
technology or National 
Certificate in Technology
(c) Certificate of Diploma issued 
by a t echnical college or a 
Polytechnic institute for a 
course not less than one year 
in duration

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
211
(d) City and Guilds Certificate I, 
ii or iii
(e) Technical Certificate at NVQ 
-“V” level.
(g) Subjects of Primary education :
 (i)  National diploma in teaching 
in the relevant subject/ trained 
Teachers’ Certificate together 
with any basic degree and 07 
years’ teaching experience in the 
relevant discipline.
Note 03 - the term “Respective discipline” shall mean 
the subject areas specified in the Service 
Minute No. 1925/37 dated 28.07.2015 and 
in the Schedule 02 of the revision made 
thereto by the Gazette No. 2141/73 dated 
19.09.2019.
Note 04 -  the subject stream applying for should have 
been followed as one of the major subjects 
in the degree course and the subject applied 
for should be applicable to one third (1/3) of 
the number of total subject units (aggregate 
units) followed for the degree. it should be 
attested by the Registrar of the university 
that awarded the Degree and the certificates 
of such attestations should be submitted 
at the general interview. in addition, if 
the academic or vocational qualifications 
specified in this notification are from a 
foreign university, it is compulsory to 
present a certificate obtained from the 
University Grants Commission confirming 
that the said institute is recognized by 
the university Grants commission at the 
general interview. The above certificates 
of attestations should be presented by the 
candidates at the time of interviews and the 
certificates presented afterward will not be 
accepted.
Note 05 - The officers recruited under the minimum 
qualifications stipulated in Schedule VII 
of the Service Minute should compulsorily 
complete the basic educational qualifications 
specified in the Service Minute related 
to the subject to which the recruitment 
was made within 05 years from the date 
of recruitment. the salary increments of 
those officers who fail to fulfill the due 
qualifications will be suspended until the 
completion of qualifications in a period 
similar to the additional period they take to 
fulfill the qualifications required for their 
relevant promotion in Grade ii.
iii. experience.– The candidate should be an officer 
confirmed in the service who has completed the qualifications 
stipulated under 04(I) and (II) of this notification as at the 
date mentioned in the notice calling for applications or 
before and who has completed an active and satisfactory 
service period not less than five (05) years in the Sri Lanka 
teachers’ Service or Sri Lanka Principals’ Service or Sri 
Lanka Education administrative Service in the Public 
Service or Provmcial Public Service.
05. Age Limit.– Not more than 45 years as at the closing 
date of application.
“accordingly, only the candidates whose birthdays fall 
on 06.03.1975 or after are qualified to apply for this’’
Note 06.–  at this time only, the lecturers who are 
attached to the National colleges of Education 
and teachers’ training colleges and serving 
on duty basis and have completed an active 
and satisfactory service period of 03 years 
as at the closing date of application and the 
officers who are acting in the manager posts 
of teachers’ centers can send the application 
irrespective of the maximum age limit.
06. Physical qualifications.– Every candidate should be 
physically and mentally fit enough to serve in any part of Sri 
Lanka and to perform the duties of the Post.
07. Method of Application. – applications are accepted 
for subjects mentioned in table 03 for the recruitment to 
the service. one candidate can apply for 3 subjects and the 
subjects applied for and the relevant subject numbers should 
compulsorily be mentioned in the specified location of the 
application. the notice for calling applications approved 
by the Education Services committee of the Public Service 
commission will be published in the Government Gazette 
and the official website of the Ministry of Education.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
212
table 03: Subjects for which the recruitments are made and 
related subject numbers
Subject area Subject 
Number
V ocational Subject 01
Sinhala Language (Mother tongue) 02
Sinhala Language (Second Language) 03
tamil Language (Mother tongue) 04
tamil Language (Second Language) 05
English 06
Health and Physical Education 07
dancing (Eastern) 08
dancing (baratha) 09
Music (Eastern) 10
Music (Kamatic) 11
Western Music 12
art 13
drama and Performing arts 14
information and communication tech-
nology 15
Primary Education - Mother tongue 161
Primary Education - aesthetic Education 
and creative Skills 162
Primary Education - Physical Education 163
Primary Education - Special Education 164
Primary Education - English 165
Primary Education - Science 166
Primary Education - Mathematics 167
Primary Education - Environment related 
activities 168
Primary Education - Religion 169
buddhism 17
catholicism 18
christianity 19
Hinduism 20
Subject area Subject 
Number
islam 21
Mathematics 22
biology 23
chemistry 24
Physics 25
Mechanical technology 26
construction technology 27
Electrical and Electronic technology 28
arts and crafts (clay craft and 
handicraft) 29
civic Education 30
History 31
Geography 32
agricultural Science 33
Special Education 34
Home Economics 35
Entrepreneurial Studies 36
Management Studies 37
08. Recruitment :
  8.1. Written examination :
8.1.1. this Examination will be conducted in 
colombo by the commissioner General 
of Examinations.
8.1.2. Syllabus: this Examination will be held 
under three subjects detailed in table 
No. 04. only three folds of the existing 
vacancies from the applicants who score 
a minimum of 40% and higher marks for 
each question paper will be qualified for 
the general interview in order of merits 
of the marks obtained at the written 
examination. this does not mean that the 
obtaining minimum pass mark of 40% for 
each subject in the written examination 
is a qualification for compulsorily calling 
for the interview.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
213
table 04: Syllabus
Serial
No.
Subject Syllabus Time Maximum
Marks
Pass
Marks
01 comprehension 
and aptitude
it is expected to measure the logical and thinking ability 
of the candidate in relation to the presentation, collection 
and development of ideas and information over a given 
topic / theme and to measure the capability of the 
applicant to understand a rather complex paragraph, 
document or communique and to express its main ideas 
clearly and accurately in a summarized form in his/
her own words and to make selection according to the 
given paragraphs, and to test the ability of understanding 
and the intelligence of applicants through testing the 
conclusions and responses of the applicants pertaining 
to the problems presented in a textual, numerical and 
figurative context.
2 Hours 100 40
02 case Study Few cases that may arise in the fields of teacher 
education and school education are presented and the 
applicant’s ability of responding and resolving such cases 
are tested.
2 Hours 100 40
03 Elements of 
Education
it is expected to assess the candidates’ understanding 
of the areas in relation to Philosophy of Education, 
Sociology of Education, Role of the teacher, Policies 
of Education and current issues, Educational Planning 
and Management, Educational Evaluation, Strategies 
of learning and teaching, Educational technology and 
Educational Research.
2 Hours 100 40
 8.2  General Interview :
 (a) this interview will be conducted by an interview board appointed by the Education Services committee 
of the Public Service commission for the candidates similar to three folds of the vacancies from the 
candidates who have scored 40% marks or higher than that for each subject at the written Examination.
 (b) Marks are not awarded for this.
 (c) In case the number of qualified candidates is not equal to the threefold of vacancies as per the above (a), 
in such instances, only the qualified candidates will be called for the General Interview.
 8.3. Aptitude testing Interview :
  only the applicants who are approved by the Education Services committee of the Public Service commission 
as to have fulfilled the qualifications at the general interview will be called for the this interview.
 (a) The marks for this interview will be awarded as per the criteria specified in below Table No.05.
 (b) this examination will be held under an interview board and a detailed marking scheme approved by the 
Education Services committee of the Public Service commission (See the Schedule i and Schedule ii 
of this notification)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
214
table 05 - aptitude testing interview - criteria of Marking
Criteria of Marking Maximum
Marks
Pass Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Not applicable2. English Language Proficiency 15
3. Skill in information communication technology 15
total Marks 50
 8.4. Practical examination :
(a)  the applicants who are approved by the Education Services committee of the Public Service commission 
to have fulfilled the basic qualifications at the general interview will be called for the practical test and 
it will be conducted by a board of interview appointed by the Education Services committee of the 
Public Service commission.
table 06 - criteria of awarding marks for the practical test
Main Headings of warding marks Maximum
Marks
Minimum Marks 
considered for Selection
1. Preparation of lecture notes 20
20
2. Presentation 30
2.1. approach 04
2.2. concise presentation of the design of the lecture 04
2.3. Style of Presentation 08
2.4. Subject contents 10
2.5. time Management 04
total 50
Note 08: The applicants who are proved to have fulfilled all the qualifications required for recruitment at the general 
interview are qualified to be called for the aptitude testing interview and the practical test. Though a particular 
number of applicants from those who were called for the general interview as mentioned above are not qualified 
to be called for the aptitude testing interview and practical test, other applicants instead of those not qualified 
will not be called for the general interview again.
09. Conditions of the examination :
 (i)  the Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English languages. the applicants should sit 
the Examination in the language medium of the subject which they are applying for. Every question paper 
should be answered in one language medium. the applicants are not permitted to change the language 
medium indicated in their applications.
 (ii)  Examination fee is Rs. 1200.00. the receipt obtained in favor of the applicant himself by paying the 
examination fee to any Post Office/Sub-Post Office or District/Divisional Secretariat situated in the island 
to be credited to the Revenue Head, 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations should be 
firmly affixed using one edge of it within the specified place of the application. It will be helpful to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt with the applicant.
 (iii) the amount paid for the Examination will not be reimbursed under any circumstances 
 (iv) This examination will be held in Colombo and the date of the examination will be notified later
 (v) incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
215
Note - the applicants are not permitted to enter the 
Examination Hall without the admission. 
only the admission in which his/her signature 
has been attested should be submitted to the 
Supervisor of the Examinations on the date 
of commencement of the Examination.
  issuance of an admission to an applicant 
does not mean that he/she has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit the Examination or to 
have the Post.
 (vi) the application should be prepared using both 
sides of a4 papers and Heads from 01 to 04 should 
appear in the first page while Heads 05 upwards 
should appear in the second, third and fourth 
pages. the applicant should include the 
relevant information in his/her own handwritings. 
applications which are not in conformity with 
the specimen application form and unperfected 
applications will be rejected without notice. it 
will be useful to keep a copy of the relevant 
application with the applicant. further, the  
applicants should be attentive on whether the 
perfected application is in conformity with 
the specimen application mentioned in the notification 
of the Examination. it is further informed that  
the application will be rejected in case of any 
inconsistency with such standard.
  the signature of the candidate should have been 
certified in the application and the admission. Every 
candidate of the examination should get his/her 
signature certified by the Head of the Institute or by 
an officer authorized by the Head of the Institute. 
the candidates should present their admissions 
wherein their signatures have been certified to the 
supervisor at the first date of the examination.
 (vii) With the presumption that only the applicants 
fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette 
Notification have applied for the Examination, the 
admissions shall be issued by the commissioner 
General of Examinations to the applicants who are 
in the age limit mentioned in the notification and 
have submitted applications accurately perfected 
with language medium of sitting the Examination,  
indicating the subject applying for and the code 
number, signature of the applicant with the 
certification of the Principal, Zonal/Provincial 
director of Education along with the relevant receipt 
issued subsequent to paying the prescribed 
Examination fee on or before the closing date of 
applications.
  A notification will be published in newspapers 
and in the official website of the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka on the issuance of 
admissions immediately after issuing the admissions 
to the candidates. a candidate, who does not receive 
his/her admission at least five days before the date  
of examination, should inform the organizations 
and foreign Examinations branch, department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, as indicated in the 
advertisement. title of the Examination applied for, 
full name, address, National identity card Number 
of the applicant should be indicated in notifying the 
department. if the candidate resides outside 
colombo, it will be effective to send a request letter to 
the fax No. 0112784232 along with such details 
of the candidate including a fax Number of the 
candidate to receive a copy of the admission. it will 
be useful to be in preparedness to produce a copy 
of the application that was kept by candidate in 
order to substantiate the candidateship of the 
candidate, copy of the receipt obtained after paying 
the examination fee and the receipt issued for 
sending the application in registered post when 
making inquiries from the department of 
Examinations.
 (viii) the commissioner General of Examinations 
reserves the authority to postpone or cancel the 
Examination on the approval of the Education 
Services committee of the Public Service  
commission.
 (ix) candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in relation to the conduct of 
the Examination and the issuance of the 
results. in case such rules and regulations 
are violated by a candidate, he/she 
has to undergo a punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations.
 (x) Identity of Applicants.- Every applicant should 
prove his/her identity at the Examination Hall to the 
satisfaction of the Supervisor of Examinations. 
only following documents will be accepted.
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid driving License of Sri Lanka
further, the candidates should enter the examination hall 
without covering the face and the ears so that their identity 
can be confirmed. Those who refuse to prove their identity 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
216
will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. Moreover, the candidates should remain without covering the face and the 
ears from the moment they enter the examination hall until they leave the hall after finishing the examination so that the 
officials are able to identify the candidates.
Note -  (a) any document or a copy should not be annexed to the application.
 (b) applications of applicants who fail to submit the documents whenever requested are not considered.
 (xi) the candidature of any candidate will be cancelled in any occasion prior to the Examination or during the 
Examination or after the Examination if such applicant is found to be not qualified. In case it is revealed 
after the selection for the post that the candidate has submitted false information or has suppressed certain 
important facts on purpose, he/she is subjected to be dismissed from the Service.
 (xii) The Officers in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service should forward their application through their 
Heads of the department/institution. it is compulsory for every candidate to get his/her signature attested by 
the Head of the institution he/she serves.
10. Releasing of Results.– The Register of candidates who have qualified in the Written Examination will be 
submitted to the Secretary, Education Services committee of the Public Service commission as per the chapter 8.1.2 of the 
Gazette Notification. Sending the results personally to all the candidates sat the Examination or uploading in the web site of 
www.exam.results.gov.lk will be done subsequent to giving the appointments.
11. The decision of the Education Services Committee of the Public Service Commission in relation to filling of 
vacancies will be final conclusion.
12. in case of any inconsistency in the texts of this Gazette notification published in the Sinhala, Tamil and English 
Languages, the Sinhala text will prevail.
by order of the Education Services committee of the Publlic Service commission,
 N.H. M. 
chithrananDa,
 Secretary
 Ministry of Education.
on 27th January, 2020.
ScHEduLE i
marking Scheme of the Aptitude Testing Interview and the Practical Test for Limited Recruitments to Grade III of 
the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service
(for the other Subjects except Second Language Sinhala and Second Language Tamil)
part i - aptituDe testing interview - maximum oF 50 marks
Note: - Marks will be awarded for the highest qualification of the certificates obtained in addition to the qualifications 
indicated in Para 04 of Gazette Notification and one additional certificate is considered in terms of one criterion only.
01.  Educational Qualifications Maximum of 20 Marks
 1.1 Post Graduate degree - 20
  (on Education or relevant subject)
 1.2 Post Graduate diploma -10
02.  Proficiency in English Language Maximum of 15 Marks
 2.1. Have passed English language as a main subject of the degree -15
  (Note 04 of the recruitment notice)

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
217
 2.2. Have passed English language as a main subject of the G.c.E. (a/Level) Examination  - 10
 2.3. Diploma Certificate (Not less than one year) - 08
 2.4. Certificate Course Certificate (Not less than 06 months) - 04
 2.5. distinction/Very Good Pass/credit Pass for English Literature - 03
  at the G.c.E. (o/Level) Examination
 2.6. distinction/Very Good Pass/credit Pass for the Subject - 02
  of English at the G.c.E. (o/Level) Examination 
03.  Knowledge of Information Technology Maximum of 15 Marks
 3.1. Post Graduate degree in information and communication technology - 15
 3.2. degree in information and communication technology - 12
 3.3. Have passed information and communication technology -10
  as a main subject for the degree (Note 04 of the recruitment notice)
 3.4. Diploma Certificate in Information and Communication Technology  - 08
  (Not less than one year)
 3.5. Certificate Course in Information and Communication Technology  - 06
  (Not less than 06 Months)
 3.6. Certificate Course in Information and Communication Technology not less than 03
  months and nor more than 06 months - 04
Note 1: If the duration of the certificates in teims of 2.3,2.4, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 is not mentioned, the document proofs 
obtained from the institutes that issued the certificate confirming the durations should be presented at the 
interview.
Note 2: The certificates relevant to 1.1, 1.2, 2.1, 2.3, 2.4, 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 should be from a University recognized by 
the university Grants commission or from an institute recognized by the university Grants commission as a 
degree awarding institute.
                                                                                                                         Total Marks  50
part ii - practical test - maximum oF 50 marks
Main Headings of warding marks Maximum
Marks
Minimum Marks
considered for Selection
1. Preparation of lecture notes 20
20
2. Presentation 30
2.1. approach 04
2.2. concise presentation of the design of the lecture 04
2.3. Style of Presentation 08
2.4. Subject contents 10
2.5.time Management 04
total 50
   Maximum of 15 Marks

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
218
ScHEduLE ii
marking Scheme for the Aptitude Testing Interview and the Practical Test for Limited Recruitments to Grade III 
of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service
(for the Subjects of Second Language Sinhala and Second Language Tamil)
part i - aptituDe testing interview - maximum oF 50 marks
Note: - Marks will be awarded for the highest qualification of the certificates obtained in addition to the qualifications 
indicated in Para 04 of Gazette Notification and one additional certificate is considered in terms of one criterion 
only.
01. Educational Qualifications Maximum of 20 Marks
 1.1. Post Graduate degree - 20
  (on Education or relevant subject)
 1.2. Post Graduate diploma - 10
 1.3. candidates should have passed the Level ii of Sinhala/tamil or the Second - 05
  Language Sinhala / tamil Subject with a credit Pass at the G.c.E.
  (o/Level) Examination along with a pass for oral test conducted by the  
  Department of Official Languages
  (Under this, marks will be awarded for the Subject of Second Language Sinhala for 
  Tamil Language Certificates and the Subject of Second Language Tamil for 
  Sinhala Language Certificates)
02.  Proficiency in English Language Maximum of 15 Marks
 2.1. Have passed English language as a main subject of the degree - 15
  (Note 04 of the recruitment notice)
 2.2. Have passed English language as a main subject of the G.c.E. (a/Level) Examination  -10
 2.3. Diploma Certificate (Not less than one year) - 08
 2.4. Certificate course (Not less than 06 months) - 04
 2.5. distinction/Very Good Pass/credit Pass for English Literature - 03
  at the G.c.E. (o/Level) Examination
 2.6. distinction/Very Good Pass/credit Pass for the Subject - 02
  of English at the G.c.E. (o/Level) Examination
03.  Knowledge of Information Technology Maximum of 15 Marks
 3.1. Post Graduate degree in information and communication technology - 15
 3.2. degree in information and communication technology - 12
 3.3. Have passed information and communication technology - 10
  as a main subject for the degree (Note 04 of the recruitment notice)
 3.4. Diploma Certificate in Information and Communication Technology (Not less than one year)  - 08
 3.5. Certificate Course in Information and Communication technology (Not less than 06 Months)  - 06
 3.6. Certificate Course in Information and Communication Technology not less than 03
  months and nor more than 06 months - 04
Note 1 :  If the duration of the certificates in terms of 2.3, 2.4, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 is not mentioned, the document proofs 
obtained from the institutes that issued the certificate confirming the durations should be presented at the 
interview.
Note 2 :  The certificates relevant to 1.1, 1.2, 2.1, 2.3, 2.4, 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 should be from a University recognized by 
the university Grants commission or from an institute recognized by the university Grants commission as a 
degree awarding institute.
                                                                                                                         Total Marks  50

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
219
part ii - practical test - maximum oF 50 marks
Main Headings of warding marks Maximum
Marks
Minimum Marks 
considered for 
Selection
1. Preparation of lecture notes 20
20
2. Presentation 30
2.1. approach 04
2.2. concise presentation of the design of the lecture 04
2.3. Style of Presentation 08
2.4. Subject contents 10
2.5. time Management 04
total 50
SPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  foRM 
(For Office use only)
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher 
Educators’ Service – 2019 (2020)
(Please submit in duplicate to the zonal Director of Education) 
the Medium of sitting the Examination :
Sinhala  - 2
tamil  - 3
English  - 4  (indicate the relevant number inside the cage)
indicate the Subject applying for and the Subject Number in the table given below in order of preference (in 
relation to Paragraph 07 of the Gazette Notification).
Preference order Subject Subject Number
1
2
3
01. 1.1.  Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (e.g.: HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2.  Name mentioning the last name first and the initials at the end :––––––––––––.
        (in English block capital) 
  (e.g.: GuNa WaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.)
 1.3. Name in full(inSinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. 2.1. Permanent address (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
 2.2.   (i)  Official Address (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (ii) Official Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
    (iii)  Relevant Zone :––––––––––––.
 2.3. Official Telephone Number (If available) :––––––––––––.
 2.4. Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
 2.5. address to which the admission should be sent (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
220
 2.6. Mobile Phone Number : 
3.0   National identity card No.:
4.0       Sex: -   Male - 0        (indicate the relevant Number inside the cage)
     female - 1
5.0 5.1 date of birth:   day :                     Month :                     year :
 5.2 age as at ………….  : y ears :                   Months :                     days :
6.0. Educational Qualifications :
 
S.N 
Subject 
No. and 
the Subject 
applied for 
The category 
qualified for 
as per the 
sub-point                       
No. 04 (II) of 
the Notification 
of Recruitment
Particulars on qualifications
Basic degree/Post Graduate 
Diploma in education /Post 
Graduate/ Other Qualifications 
(Name) and the Institute awarded
effective 
Date 
Class/ 
Pass
Main subjects 
(Should be 
verified as per 
Note 04 of the 
Notification of 
Recruitment)
01
02
03
7.0 
Previous services Date of appointment to 
the service and date of 
confirmation in the service 
Current service and the 
date of appointment
date of confirmation in 
the current service
e.g.– teachers’ Service e.g.-01.01.1990 e.g. – Principals’ Service e.g.-01.01.2005
8.0  if the candidate is serving/served in teachers’ Service;
Date of 
Appointment 
Subject to which 
the appointment 
was given 
Diploma in Teaching Teacher Training Certificate 
effective 
date 
Field National College of 
education 
effective 
date
Teacher Training 
College 
9.0  Indicate the medium of language of passing the examination through which you were qualified to enter   the public 
Service :––––––––––––.
10.0. Examination fees :
Firmly affix the receipt obtained after paying the Examination Fees 
(Please keep a photo copy of the receipt with you)

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
221
11.0.   i hereby declare that the information furnished by me are true according to my knowledge and belief and the receipt 
No……...........dated …………….obtained after paying examination fees has been affixed here. Further, I agree to 
abide by rules and regulations of the Examination and the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations and to accept the cancellation of my candidature or any decision taken before or during the 
Examination, if it is disclosed that I am not qualified in terms of the rules of the Examination. I am aware that I am 
subject to dismissal from the service if i will be found to be disqualified even after being selected to the Post. Further, 
i declare that i am subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations in 
relation to the conduct of the Examination and the issuance of the results.
 
                                                                                           –––––––––––––––,
                                                                                                                    Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Head of the Department/Zonal Director of Education/Head of the Institution :
i do hereby certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………….………………………...who is submitting this 
application is an officer serving in my school/ institution.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and the Head of the institution.
 (Official Frank)
date :––––––––––––.                                       
Commissioner General of Examinations :
i do hereby certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………….………………………... who is submitting this 
application is an officer serving in my Education Zone and the particulars indicated in the paragraphs 01 to 10  are accurate 
as per his/her personal file in the office and the rele vant receipt obtained after paying the examination fee has also been 
affixed. 
 ––––––––––––––,
                                                                           Zonal Director of Education/Provincial Director of Education.
 (Official Frank)
date :––––––––––––.
02–206
––––––––––––––––––––––––
EDuCATION SERvICES COmmITTEE Of ThE PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Education
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR REcRuitiNG to GRadE iii of tHE SRi LaNKa tEacHER 
EducatoRS’ SERVicE – 2019 (2020)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the officers who have fulfilled the following qualifications to fill 384 vacancies in Grade 
iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service in the National colleges of Education, teachers’ training colleges and 
teachers’ centers which are under the purview of the Ministry of Education through an open competitive Examination by 
order of the Education Services committee of the Public Service commission. 
Applications prepared according to the specimen application form indicated at the end of this notification should be 
sent through registered post to reach, “the commissioner General of Examinations, organizations and foreign Examinations 
branch, department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, Post box 1503, colombo on or before the date mentioned below. the 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
222
caption, “open competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service 
– 2019” should be clearly mentioned on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope. further, the title of the Examination 
in the Sinhala applications should be mentioned in English in 
addition to the Sinhala Language and in tamil applications 
in English in addition to the tamil language. 
the closing date of applications – 06.03.2020
the complaints regarding loss or delay of an application 
or a related letter in post are not considered. the candidates 
themselves should bear the losses that may happen due 
to delaying the applications until the closing date of 
applications.
01. Scheme of Recruitment  :
(a) the recruitment will be made on the results 
of a written examination, a general interview, 
an aptitude testing interview and a practical 
examination. candidates similar to thrice the 
number of vacancies will be called for the 
general interview among those who have scored 
minimum pass mark of 40% or more for each 
subject in the written Examination. only the 
candidates who are confirmed to have fulfilled 
the basic qualifications at the general interview 
will be called for the aptitude testing interview 
and the practical examination. the marks scored 
by the candidates in the written Examination 
will not be provided to the boards of Examiners 
of the aptitude testing interview and practical 
examination. 
Note : 01 – obtaining minimum pass mark of 40% 
or more for each subject in the written 
Examination does not mean that the 
candidate will be compulsorily called for 
the interview. 
(b) No marks will be given for the general interview. 
Whether the candidates have fulfilled the 
qualifications stipulated in the recruitment notice 
in every aspect will be examined therein. the 
officers who do not have basic qualifications will 
not be called for the aptitude testing interview 
and the practical examination. 
(c) the marking schemes for the aptitude testing 
interview and the practical examination have been 
specified in Table 05 and 06 of this notification. 
the general interview, aptitude testing interview 
and practical examination will be conducted by a 
board of interviewers appointed by the Education 
Services committee of the Public Service 
commission. a number of candidates similar to 
the number of vacancies will be recruited from 
the candidates who have obtained the minimum 
pass marks for the written examination, practical 
examination under the aptitude testing interview 
according to the merit order of marks obtained 
by candidates based on the total marks. in case 
of more than one candidate scored similar 
marks, Education Services committee of the 
Public Service commission reserves the right of 
taking decision in that regard. the effective date 
of appointment and the number appointments 
will be determined by the Education Services 
committee of the Public Service commission. 
the Education Services committee of the Public 
Service Commission reserves the authority to fill 
a certain number of vacancies or all the vacancies. 
the written examination is held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English Mediums and a candidate can apply 
for the examination in one medium of language 
according to his/her preference. Recruitments 
will be made in the same language medium of 
sitting the written Examination. Every candidate 
should sit and pass the written examination in 
the language medium of the subject applied for 
and should appear for the practical examination 
in the same language medium. the educational 
qualifications and experiences specified under 
No.04 of this notification should be in the same 
language medium applied in.  
(d) The number of vacancies expected to be filled 
by the open competitive Examination has been 
given in table No.01. the vacancies that exist in 
the National colleges of Education, teachers’ 
training colleges and teachers’ centers will 
be filled by these recruitments based on the 
merit order of marks of the candidates who are 
to be recruited. table 02 indicates the No. of 
vacancies available by National colleges of 
Education, teachers’ t raining colleges and 
teachers’ centers. a candidate can apply for 03 
subjects under one medium of language from 
the vacancies listed below. if one candidate is 
qualified for several subjects, the subject for 
which the candidate is recruited will be decided 
based on the order of the subjects applied by 
him/her. the order of the subject mentioned in 
the application cannot be changed later by the 
candidate.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
223
table 01: open basis recruitment to Grade iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service No. of vacancies by subjects and 
medium of language as at 06.08.2019
Serial 
No. Subject 
Open 
Sinhala Tamil english Total
1 V ocational Subject 60 25 11 96
2 Sinhala Language (Mother tongue) 24 0 0 24
3 Sinhala Language (Second Language) 19 0 0 19
4 tamil Language (Mother tongue) 0 9 0 9
5 tamil Language (Second Language) 0 36 0 36
6 English 0 0 47 47
7 Health and Physical Education 10 4 1 15
8 dancing (Eastern) 7 0 0 7
9 dancing (bharatha) 0 3 0 3
10 Music (Eastern) 6 0 0 6
11 Music (Karnataka) 0 5 0 5
12 Western Music 0 0 1 1
13 art 9 5 0 14
14 drama and Performing art 5 2 0 7
15 information and communication technology 4 3 3 10
16 Primary Education 
 161 Mother tongue 2 2 0 4
 162 aesthetic Education and creative Skills 5 4 0 9
 163 Physical Education 1 2 0 3
 164 Special Education 1 0 0 1
 165 English 0 0 6 6
 166 Science 2 0 0 2
 167 Mathematics  6 2 0 8
 168 Environment related activities 6 3 0 9
 169 Religion 3 1 0 4
17 buddhism 5 0 0 5
18 catholicism 1 1 0 2
19 christianity 1 1 0 2
20 Hinduism 0 1 0 1
21 islam 0 1 0 1
22 Mathematics 1 1 1 3
23 biology 1 0 1 2
24 chemistry 1 0 1 2
25 Physics 1 0 1 2
26 Electric and Electronic technology 0 1 0 1
27 arts and crafts (clay craft and handicraft) 1 1 0 2
28 civic Education 2 2 0 4
29 History 1 0 0 1
30 Geography 1 1 0 2
31 agricultural Science 1 0 0 1
32 Special Education 1 2 0 3
33 Home Economics 0 2 0 2

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
224
Serial 
No. Subject 
Open 
Sinhala Tamil english Total
34 Entrepreneurial Studies 0 1 0 1
35 Management Studies 1 1 0 2
 total 189 122 73 384
table 02 :  No. of vacancies for Grade iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service in National colleges of Education, 
teachers’ training colleges and teachers’ centers as at 06.08.2019.
Institute Open Total Sinhala Tamil english 
National colleges of Education 77 42 19 138
teachers’ centers 86 51 35 172
teachers’ training colleges 26 29 19 74
 189 122 73 384
02. Conditions of employing in the service :
 i. the candidates will be appointed to the Grade iii of the Service subjected to the conditions imposed in the 
Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service Minute which had been published in the Gazette (Extra-ordinary) 
No. 1925/37 dated 28.07.2015 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and as per the revisions 
made thereafter to the Service Minute by the Gazette Nos. 2141/73 dated 19.09.2019 and 2153/06 dated 
09.12.2019 and the revisions that will be made to the Service Minute hereinafter and the general conditions 
which govern the appointments made to the Public Service.
 II. The officers appointed to this post will be subjected to a probation period of three years.
 III. The first efficiency bar examination should be passed prior to exceeding 03 years subsequent to the 
appointment to the Grade iii of the teacher Educators’ Service.
 iV . in terms of the Public administration circular No. 01/2014 and the circulars incidental thereto, the relevant 
proficiency in the other Official Language should be obtained within a period of five (05) years from the 
date of appointment. Officers who have recruited to service in a language medium other than an official 
language should obtain the proficiency in one of the official languages within the period of three (03) years 
and an officer who has recruited to service should obtain the proficiency in the English Language which 
is the Link language within the period of three (03) years from the date of recruitment to the service. if 
an officer has passed the English Language with a Credit pass or a higher pass at the G.C.E. (Ordinary 
Level) Examination, such officers are exempted from the requirement of passing the Link Language Test. 
The other officers should pass the Examination indicated in the Schedule “VIII” of the Service Minute. An 
officer recruited to the Service from the English Medium is exempted from this requirement.
 V . the Procedural rules of the Public Service commission, circulars issued on the Public Service from time 
to time, the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service Minute and the conditions of the revisions made to the 
Service Minute are applicable to this Post.
 Vi. the appointees should reside within the limit of National college of Education, teachers’ training colleges 
or teachers’ centers when residential facilities are provided. it is permitted to reside within a limited 
distance when residential facilities are not provided. However, when housing facilities are provided within 
the limit of the National colleges of Education, teachers’ training colleges and teachers’ centers, the 
appointees should reside in therein. 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
225
Vii. the recruitments are made base on the vacancies 
existing in National colleges of Education, 
teachers’ training colleges and teachers’ centers 
and the appointees should agree to serve in any 
National college of Education, teachers’ training 
college or teachers’ center which is given on the 
merit order of the recruitment test. 
03. Salary Scale.– a Salary Scale of Rs. 47,615 – 
10x1,335- 8x1,630 – 17x2,170 – Rs. 110,895 (Monthly) 
of  SL-01-2016 as per the Public administration circular 
No.03/2006 is entitled to the Post. 
04. Qualifications and Experiences :
i. General Qualifications  :
 (i) Should have an excellent moral character.
 (ii) No person is permitted to sit the open 
Examination for more than three (03) sittings.
 (iii) Date of fulfilling the qualification - The 
applicants are considered to have fulfilled the 
qualifications required to sit the competitive 
examination for the recruitment to the 
service only if they have fulfilled all the 
qualifications specified from paragraph 04 to 
06 in every aspect on or before closing date 
of applications. 
i. Educational Qualifications.– one of the following 
qualifications obtained from a university 
recognized by the university Grants commission 
or from an institute recognized by the university 
Grant commission as being a degree awarding 
institute;
 (i) a  basic degree with a class in the relevant 
discipline
 (ii) a  basic degree in the relevant discipline 
and a Post Graduate degree related to that 
discipline
 (iii) a  Post Graduate diploma in Education with 
a basic degree in the relevant discipline or a 
Post Graduate diploma in Education in the 
relevant discipline.
 (iv) a  basic degree in the relevant discipline and 
a Post Graduate degree in Education 
Note 02: a Post Graduate degree in Education with a 
basic degree in any discipline will be considered 
only for the V ocational Subject.
Note 03 - the term “Respective discipline” shall mean 
the subject areas specified in the Service Minute 
No. 1925/37 dated 28.07.2015 and in the Schedule 
02 of the revision made thereto by the Extra-
ordinary Gazette No. 2141/73 dated 19.09.2019.
Note 04 - the subject stream applying for should have 
been followed as one of the major subjects in the 
degree course and the subject applied for should 
be applicable to one third (1/3) of the number of 
total subject units (aggregate units) followed for 
the degree. it should be attested by the Registrar 
of the university that awarded the degree and 
the certificates of such attestations should be 
submitted at the general interview. in addition, 
if the academic or vocational qualifications 
specified in this notification are from a foreign 
university, it is compulsory to present a certificate 
obtained from the university Grants commission 
confirming that the said institute is recognized by 
the university Grants commission at the general 
interview. The above certificates of attestations 
should be presented by the candidates at the time of 
interviews and the certificates presented afterward 
will not be accepted.
ii. Experience: Not applicable  
05. Age Limit.– the applicant should be not less than 22 
years and not more than 35 years as at the closing date of 
application.
“accordingly, only the candidates whose birthdays fall 
on or before 1998.03.06 and on or after 1985.03.06 are 
qualified to apply for this”
06. Physical qualifications.– Every candidate should be 
physically and mentally fit enough to serve in any part of Sri 
Lanka and to perform the duties of the Post.
07.  Method of Application.- applications are accepted 
for subjects mentioned in table 03 for the recruitment to 
the service. one candidate can apply for 3 subjects and the 
subjects applied for and the relevant subject numbers should 
compulsorily be mentioned in the specified location of the 
application. the notice for calling applications approved 
by the Education Services committee of the Public Service 
commission will be published in the Government Gazette 
and the official website of the Ministry of Education.  

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
226
table 03: Subjects for which the recruitments are made and related subject numbers 
Subject area Subject Number
V ocational Subject 01
Sinhala Language (Mother tongue) 02
Sinhala Language (Second Language) 03
tamil Language (Mother tongue) 04
tamil Language (Second Language) 05
English 06
Health and Physical Education 07
dancing (Eastern) 08
dancing (baratha) 09
Music (Eastern) 10
Music (Karnatic) 11
Western Music 12
art 13
drama and Performing arts 14
information and communication technology 15
Primary Education – Mother tongue 161
Primary Education – aesthetic Education and creative Skills 162
Primary Education – Physical Education 163
Primary Education – Special Education 164
Primary Education – English 165
Primary Education – Science 166
Primary Education – Mathematics 167
Primary Education – Environment related activities 168
Primary Education – Religion 169
buddhism 17
catholicism 18
christianity 19
Hinduism 20
islam 21
Mathematics 22
biology 23
chemistry 24
Physics 25
Electrical and Electronic technology 26
arts and crafts (clay craft and handicraft) 27
civic Education 28
History 29
Geography 30
agricultural Science 31
Special Education 32
Home Economics 33
Entrepreneurial Studies 34
Management Studies 35

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
227
08. Recruitment :
   8.1 Written Examination :
 8.1.1. this Examination will be conducted in colombo by the commissioner General of Examinations.
 8.1.2.  Syllabus: this Examination will be held under three subjects detailed in table No. 04. only three 
folds of the existing vacancies from the applicants who score a minimum of 40% and higher marks 
for each question paper will be qualified for the general interview in order of merits of the marks 
obtained at the written examination. this does not mean that the obtaining minimum pass mark of 
40% for each subject in the written examination is a qualification for compulsorily calling for the 
interview.
table 04: Syllabus 
Serial 
No.
Subject Syllabus Time Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks 
  01 General 
Knowledge and 
aptitude 
Part i - General Knowledge (1Hour)
it is expected to measure the awareness and understanding 
of the applicant on different organizational environments 
in national, zonal and global level as well as the cultural, 
educational, scientific, political, economic factors and the 
other related factors prevailing in our society. 
Part ii – aptitude (1Hour)
this is to test the ability of understanding and the 
intelligence of applicants through testing the conclusions 
and responses of the applicants pertaining to the problems 
presented in a textual, numerical and figurative context. 
2 Hours 100 40
02 comprehension it is expected to measure the logical and thinking ability 
of the candidate in relation to the presentation, collection 
and development of ideas and information over a given 
topic / theme and to measure the capability of the applicant 
to understand a rather complex paragraph, document or 
communiqué and to express its main ideas clearly and 
accurately in a summarized form in his/her own words and 
to make selection according to the given paragraphs.
2 Hours 100 40
03 case Study Few cases that may arise in the fields of teacher education 
and school education are presented and the applicant’s 
ability of responding and resolving such cases are tested. 
1 Hour 100 40
8.2. General Interview :
 (a)  this interview will be conducted by an interview board appointed by the Education Services committee 
of the Public Service commission for the candidates similar to three folds of the vacancies from the 
candidates who have scored 40% marks or higher than that for each subject at the written Examination.
 (b)  Marks are not awarded for this.
 (c)  In case the number of qualified candidates is not equal to the threefold of vacancies as per the above 
(a), in such instances, only the qualified number of candidates will be called for the Aptitude Testing 
interview.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
228
8.3.  Aptitude Testing Interview.– only the applicants who are approved by the Education Services committee of 
the Public Service Commission as to have fulfilled the qualifications at the general interview will be called 
for the this interview.
(a) The marks for this interview will be awarded as per the criteria specified in below Table No.05.
(b) this examination will be held under an interview board and a detailed marking scheme approved by the 
Education Services committee of the Public Service commission (See the Schedule i and Schedule ii 
of this notification). 
 table 05 – aptitude testing interview - criteria of Marking
Criteria of Marking Maximum Marks Pass Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 20
        
           Not applicable2. English Language Proficiency 15
3. Skill in information communication technology 15
total Marks 50
8.4.  Practical examination :
(a) the applicants who are approved by the Education Services committee of the Public Service commission to 
have fulfilled the basic qualifications at the general interview will be called for the practical test and it will 
be conducted by a board of interview appointed by the Education Services committee of the Public Service 
commission. 
table 06 - criteria of awarding marks for the practical test 
Main Headings of warding marks Maximum Marks Minimum Marks 
1. approach 05        
        
20
2. Subject contents 20
3. Style in the Presentation 10
4. time management 10
5. Summarizing 05
total 50
Note 05: The applicants who are proved to have fulfilled all the qualifications required for recruitment at the 
general interview are qualified to be called for the aptitude testing interview and the practical test. 
though a particular number of applicants from those who were called for the general interview as 
mentioned above are not qualified to be called for the aptitude testing interview and practical test, 
other applicants instead of those not qualified will not be called for the general Interview again.
09. Conditions of the examination :
 (i) the Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English languages. the applicants should sit 
the Examination in the language medium of the subject which they are applying for. Every question paper 
should be answered in one language medium. the applicants are not permitted to change the language 
medium indicated in their applications.
                    

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
229
 (ii) Examination fee is Rs.1200.00. the receipt 
obtained in favor of the applicant himself by 
paying the examination fee to any post office/
sub-post office or District/Divisional Secretariat  
situated in the island to be credited to the Revenue 
Head, 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations should be firmly affixed using 
one edge of it within the specified place of the 
application. it will be helpful to keep a photocopy 
of the receipt with the applicant. 
 (iii) the amount paid for the Examination will not be 
reimbursed under any circumstances
     Note -  the applicants are not permitted to enter 
the Examination Hall without the admission. 
only the admission in which his/her signature 
has been attested should be submitted to the 
Supervisor of the Examinations on the date 
of commencement of the Examination.
 issuance of an admission to an applicant 
does not mean that he/she has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit the Examination or to 
have the Post. 
 (iv) the application should be prepared using both 
sides of a4 papers and Heads from 01 to 04 
should appear in the first page while Heads 05 
upwards should appear in the second, third and 
fourth pages. the applicant should include the 
relevant information in his/her own handwritings. 
applications which are not in conformity with 
the specimen application form and unperfected 
applications will be rejected without notice. 
it will be useful to keep a copy of the relevant 
application with the applicant. further, the 
applicants should be attentive on whether the 
perfected application is in conformity with 
the specimen application mentioned in the 
notification of the Examination. It is further 
informed that the application will be rejected in 
case of any inconsistency with such standard
 (v) With the presumption that only the applicants 
fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette 
Notification have applied for the Examination, the 
admissions shall be issued by the commissioner 
General of Examinations to the applicants who 
are in the age limit mentioned in the notification 
and have submitted applications accurately 
perfected with language medium of sitting the 
Examination, indicating the subject applying for 
and the code number, signature of the applicant 
with the certification of the Principal, Zonal/
Provincial director of Education along with the 
relevant receipt issued subsequent to paying the 
prescribed Examination fee on or before the 
closing date of applications.  
  A notification will be published in newspapers 
and in the official website of the Department 
of Examinations, Sri Lanka on the issuance 
of admissions immediately after issuing the 
admissions to the candidates. a candidate, who 
does not receive his/her admission at least five 
days before the date of examination, should 
inform the organizations (institutional and 
foreign Examinations) branch, department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, as indicated in the 
advertisement. title of the Examination applied 
for, full name, address, National identity card 
Number of the applicant should be indicated in 
notifying the department. if the candidate resides 
outside colombo, it will be effective to send a 
request letter to the fax No. of the notice along 
with such details of the candidate including a fax 
Number of the candidate to receive a copy of the 
admission. it will be useful to be in preparedness 
to produce a copy of the application that was 
kept by candidate in order to substantiate the 
candidateship of the candidate, copy of the 
receipt obtained after paying the examination fee 
and the receipt issued for sending the application 
in registered post when making inquiries from 
the department of Examinations. 
 (vi) the commissioner General of Examinations 
reserves the authority to postpone or cancel the 
Examination on the approval of the Education 
Services committee of the Public Service 
commission.
 (vii) candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in relation to the conduct of the 
Examination and the issuance of the results. in 
case such rules and regulations are violated by 
a candidate, he/she has to undergo a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
 (viii) Identity of Applicants - Every applicant should 
prove his/her identity at the Examination 
Hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of 
Examinations. only following documents will 
be accepted.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
230
 (i) National identity card
 (ii)  a Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid driving License of Sri Lanka 
  further, the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering the face and the ears so that their 
identity can be confirmed. Those who refuse to prove their identity will not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. Moreover, the candidates should remain without covering the face and the ears from the moment they 
enter the examination hall until they leave the hall after finishing the examination so that the officials are able to 
identify the candidates. 
Note.–  (a) any document or a copy should not be annexed to the application.
 (b) applications of applicants who fail to submit the documents whenever requested are not considered. 
 (ix) the candidature of any candidate will be cancelled in any occasion prior to the Examination or during the 
Examination or after the Examination if such applicant is found to be not qualified. In case it is revealed after the 
selection for the post that the candidate has submitted false information or has suppressed certain important facts 
on purpose, he/she is subjected to be dismissed from the Service.
 (x) The signature of the candidate should have been certified in the application and in the admission. The Officers 
in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service should forward their application through their Heads of the 
department/institution. it is compulsory for every candidate to get his/her signature attested, pay the applicable 
examination fees and affix the receipt in the application prior to sitting the Examination. A candidate who sits 
the Examination from an institution should get his signature attested by the Head of the institution where he/
she serves. a candidate who does not belong to that category should get his/her signature attested by a Head of 
a Government School/Retired Head, Grama Niladhari of the division, a Justice of Peace, a commissioner of 
Oaths, Lawyer, Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer in the Three Forces, a permanent Staff Grade Officer 
serving in the Public Service or in a Local Government Service, a chief incumbent or Nayaka thero of a 
buddhist temple or a clergy in charge of another religious place holding a considerable Position.
10. Releasing of Results.- The Register of candidates who have qualified in the Written Examination will be 
submitted to the Secretary, Education Services committee of the Public Service commission as per the chapter 8.1.2 of the 
Gazette Notification. Sending the results personally to all the candidates sat the Examination or uploading in the web site of 
www.exam.results.gov.lk will be done subsequent to giving the appointments. 
11. The decision of the Education Services Committee of the Public Service Commission in relation to filling of 
vacancies will be final conclusion. 
12. in case of any inconsistency prevails in the texts of this Gazette notification published in the Sinhala, Tamil and 
English Languages, the Sinhala text will prevail. 
by order of the Education Services committee of the Public Service commission,
 N. H. M. 
chithrananDa,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
on 27th January, 2020.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
231
ScHEduLE i
marking Scheme of the Aptitude Testing Interview and the Practical Test for Open Recruitments to Grade III of 
the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service 
(for the other Subjects except Second Language Sinhala and Second Language Tamil)
part i – aptituDe testing interview - maximum oF 50 marks
Note:- Marks will be awarded for the highest qualification of the certificates obtained in addition to the qualifications 
indicated in Para 04 of Gazette Notification and one additional certificate is considered in terms of one criterion 
only. 
01.  Educational Qualifications    Maximum of 20 Marks
     * 1.1  Post Graduate degree  - 20
           (on Education or relevant subject)
     * 1.2  Post Graduate diploma         - 10                                                     
02. Proficiency in English Language                                                                       Maximum of 15 Marks 
      * 2.1. Have passed English language as a main subject of the degree                                            - 15                                                                 
                (Note 04 of the recruitment notice) 
 2.2.  Have passed English language as a main subject of the G.c.E. (a/Level) Examination       - 10
    *2.3.  Diploma Certificate (Not less than one year)                                                               - 08      
 * 2.4.  Certificate Course Certificate (Not less than 06 months)       - 04
 2.5. distinction/Very Good Pass/credit Pass for English Literature                                    - 03
                at the G.c.E. (o/Level) Examination      
      2.6.  distinction/Very Good Pass/credit Pass for the Subject   - 02                                                                   
               of English at the G.c.E. (o/Level) Examination  
    
03. Knowledge of Information Technology Maximum of 15 Marks
 * 3.1.  Post Graduate degree in information and communication technology                                      - 15                                              
 * 3.2.  degree in information and communication technology                                                              - 12                                                                        
 * 3.3.  Have passed information and communication technology                                                         - 10                          
         as a main subject for the degree (Note 04 of the recruitment notice) 
  3.4.  Diploma Certificate in Information and Communication Technology - 08    
  (Not less than one year)    
  3.5.  Certificate Course in Information and Communication Technology  - 06  
  (Not less than 06 Months)         
  3.6.  Certificate Course in Information and Communication Technology not less than 03 
          months and not more than 06 months                                                                                           - 04
 
Note 1: If the duration of the certificates in terms of 2.3, 2.4, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 is not mentioned, the document proofs 
obtained from the institutes that issued the certificate confirming the durations should be presented at the 
interview.
Note 2: The certificates relevant to * 1.1, 1.2, 2.1, 2.3, 2.4, 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 should be from a University recognized by 
the university Grants commission or from an institute recognized by the university Grants commission as 
a degree awarding institute. 
 
                                                                                                              Total Marks  50                            

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
232
part ii – practical examination – maximum oF 50 marks 
Main Headings of warding marks Maximum Marks Minimum Marks 
1. approach 05        
20
2. Subject contents 20
3. Style in the Presentation 10
4. time management 10
5. Summarizing 05
total 50
ScHEduLE ii
marking Scheme of the Aptitude Testing Interview and the Practical Test for Open Recruitments to Grade III of 
the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service 
(for the Subjects of Second Language Sinhala and Second Language Tamil)
part i – aptituDe testing interview -maximum oF 50 marks
Note: - Marks will be awarded for the highest qualification of the certificates obtained in addition to the qualifications 
indicated in Para 04 of Gazette Notification and one additional certificate is considered in terms of one criterion 
only.
01. Educational Qualifications                  Maximum of 20 Marks
    * 1.1.  Post Graduate degree                     - 20                                                                                  
               (on Education or relevant subject)
 * 1.2.  Post Graduate diploma - 10                                                          
        1.3.  candidates should have passed the Level ii of Sinhala/tamil or the Second                           - 05
                Language Sinhala / tamil Subject with a credit Pass at the G.c.E. (o/Level)  
  Examination along with a pass for oral test conducted   by   the  
         Department of Official Languages 
      (Under this, marks will be awarded for the Subject of Second Language Sinhala for Tamil Language 
Certificates and the Subject of Second Language Tamil for Sinhala Language Certificates)
               
02. Proficiency in English Language                                                                       Maximum of 15 Marks 
 * 2.1.  Have passed English language as a main subject of the degree                                             - 15                                                                 
                 (Note 04 of the recruitment notice)                                         
        2.2.  Have passed English language as a main subject of the G.c.E. (a/Level) Examination       - 10
 * 2.3. Diploma Certificate (Not less than one year)                                                               - 08      
 * 2.4.  Certificate Course Certificate (Not less than 06 months)                                             - 04
 2.5.  distinction/Very Good Pass/credit Pass for English Literature                                    - 03
                at the G.c.E. (o/Level) Examination      
        2.6.  distinction/Very Good Pass/credit Pass for the Subject                                              - 02                                                                   
               of English at the G.c.E. (o/Level) Examination  
 
03. Knowledge of Information Technology Maximum of 15 Marks
 * 3.1.  Post Graduate degree in information and communication technology                                       - 15                                              
 * 3.2.  degree in information and communication technology                                                               - 12                                                                        
 * 3.3.  Have passed information and communication technology                                                          - 10                          
         as a main subject for the degree (Note 04 of the recruitment notice) 
                    

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
233
  3.4.  Diploma Certificate in Information and communication technology - 08
  (Not less than one year)        
  3.5.  Certificate Course in Information and Communication Technology - 06     
  (Not less than 06 Months)      
  3.6.  Certificate Course in Information and Communication Technology not less than 03 
          months and not more than 06 months                                                                                           - 04
Note 1: If the duration of the certificates in terms of 2.3, 2.4, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 is not mentioned, the document proofs obtained 
from the institutes that issued the certificate confirming the durations should be presented at the interview.
Note 2: The certificates relevant to * 1.1, 1.2, 2.1, 2.3, 2.4, 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 should be from a University recognized by 
the university Grants commission or from an institute recognized by the university Grants commission as a 
degree awarding institute 
                                                                                                                         Total Marks     50                            
part ii – practical examination – maximum oF 50 marks 
Main Headings of warding marks Maximum Marks Minimum Marks 
1. approach 05        
20
2. Subject contents 20
3. Style in the Presentation 10
4. time management 10
5. Summarizing 05
total 50
SPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  foRM 
(For Office use only)
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher 
Educators’ Service – 2019 (2020)
the Medium of sitting the Examination :
Sinhala  - 2
tamil  - 3
English  - 4  (indicate the relevant number inside the cage)
indicate the Subject applying for and the Subject Number in the table given below in order of preference                                  
(in relation to Paragraph 07 of the Gazette Notification).
Preference order Subject Subject Number
1
2
3
                    
    Maximum of 15 Marks

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
234
01. 1.1.  Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (e.g.: HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2.  Name mentioning the last name first and the initials at the end :––––––––––––.
        (in English block capital) 
  (e.g.: GuNa WaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.)
 1.3. Name in full(in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. 2.1. Permanent address (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
 2.2.  Personal telephone Number (if available) :––––––––––––.
 2.3. Email address :––––––––––––.
 2.4.  (i)  Official Address (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (ii) Official Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
 2.5. Official Telephone Number (If available) :––––––––––––.
 2.6. Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
 2.7. address to which the admission should be sent (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
3.0   National identity card No.:
4.0       Sex: -   Male - 0        (indicate the relevant Number inside the cage)
     female - 1
5.0 5.1 date of birth:   day :                     Month :                     year :
 5.2 age as at ………….  : y ears :                   Months :                     days :
6.0 Educational Qualifications :
 
S.N 
Subject 
No. and 
the Subject 
applied for 
The category 
applied as per 
the sub-point 
No.04 (II) of 
the Gazette 
Notification
Particulars on qualifications
Basic degree/Post Graduate 
Diploma in education /
Post Graduate and Other 
Qualification (Name) and the 
Institute awarded
effective 
Date 
Class/ 
Pass
Main subjects 
(Should be 
verified as per 
Note 04 of the 
Recruitment 
Notification)
01
02
03
7.0    Examination fees :
Firmly affix the receipt obtained after paying the Examination Fees 
(Please keep a photo copy of the receipt with you)
8.0  i hereby declare that the information furnished by me are true according to my knowledge and belief and the receipt 
No……...dated …………obtained after paying examination fees has been affixed here. Further, I agree to abide by 
rules and regulations of the Examination and the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
235
Examinations and to accept the cancellation of my candidature or any decision taken before or during the Examination, 
if it is disclosed that i am not qualified in terms of the rules of the Examination. I am aware that I am subject to 
dismissal from the service if I will be found to be disqualified even after being selected to the Post.
    
               –––––––––––––,
                                                                                                                  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of the Signature of the Candidate
i do certify that the undersigned Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………….…………………………………. residing 
at ………………………………………...... is personally known to me and he / she placed his/her signature before me.
                                                                                                 
                                                                ––––––––––––––––,
              Signature and official frank of the Attester.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Department
the application of ……………………………………………………...is forwarded herewith. i inform you that 
he/she is a permanent/temporary/casual ………………….. serving in the department and he/she can/cannot be released 
from the service if he/she is selected to the Post.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and Official Frank of the 
 Head of the department/institution
date :–––––––––––.
department :–––––––––––.
02–207
––––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION 
Revision 
EXtENSioN of tHE cLoSiNG datE of aPPLicatioNS iN RELatioN to tHE EfficiENcy baR 
EXaMiNatioN - 2019(ii) coNductEd foR tHE officERS iN GRadE iii of tHE SRi LaNKa tEacHER 
EducatoRS' SERVicE
"THE closing date of applications in relation to the Efficiency Bar Examination - 2019(II) for the Officers in Grade III of the 
Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service published in the Gazette Notification No. 2,150 dated 15.11.2019 of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka has been extended up to 14.02.2020".
02-222

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
236
mINISTRy  Of  EDuCATION 
Link Language (English) Examination for                     
Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service - 2019
IT is hereby notified that the Link Language (English) 
Examination will be conducted in colombo in the month 
of May 2020 for the Officers in the Sri Lanka Teacher 
Educators' Service in accordance with the Sri Lanka teacher 
Educators' Service Minute No. 1925/37 dated 28th July 
2015. 
02. Every officer of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' 
Service should obtain the proficiency in the English 
Language; the Link Language, within three (03) years from 
the date of Recruitment. In case an officer has obtained at 
least a credit pass or pass higher than a credit pass at the                             
G. c. E. (ordinary Level) Examination or has been recruited 
to the Service in the English medium, such officer will 
be exempted from the requirement of passing this Link 
Language (English) Examination. The other officers should 
get through this Examination. 
03. the syllabus related to this examination and the other 
provisions have been published in the Gazette extraordinary 
No. 1925/37 dated 28th July, 2015 of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. the syllabus and the other 
provisions have been mentioned here for the convenience of 
the candidates. 
04. Examination Procedure - Written Examination :
Subject 
No.
Subject Marks Duration 
(hours)
01 English Language 100 02
05. The Syllabus :
5.1  english Grammar :
  A suitable level of proficiency on the following 
forms of grammar in the spoken and the written 
language is expected from the candidate :
 - t ense and Number
 - Sentences (Simple/compound/complex/ 
   compound complex)
 - Relative clauses 
 - Reported Speech
 - adjectives and adverbs
 - determiners
 - Prepositions
5.2  Writing Skills :
 the knowledge on the modern formats and 
styles of writing is tested in this area of study :
  - Essay Writing
  - Summary Writing Skills
  - Report Writing Skills
  - Letter Writing
5.3  Reading Skills :
 candidate's ability to comprehend a printed 
text, infer meaning and written interpretation is 
expected :
 - Reading and understanding the specific and 
general meaning of a printed text.
 - Reading and interpretation (Written)
06. a candidate should score at least 40%  marks or more 
to pass the subject.
07. the result sheet of all the candidates who sat the 
examination will be forwarded to the Secretary of the 
Ministry of Education by the commissioner General of 
Examinations. the commissioner General of Examinations 
will not issue result sheets personally to the candidates. 
08. application should be prepared using the both sides of 
an a4 sized paper and the Heads No. 01 to 04 should appear 
on the first page and the rest should appear in the second page 
and the information related to it should be included clearly 
in their own hand writing. you should be alert whether the 
application is in conformity with the specimen application 
mentioned in the Notification of the examination and you 
have completed the application correctly including all the 
information and whether the prescribed Examination fees 
have been paid and the details in that regard are included in the 
application and the receipt is affixed to the application prior 
to directing the application as the applications that are not 
in conformity with the specimen application and incomplete 
applications are rejected without notice. It is hereby notified 
that it would be beneficial to retain a photocopy of the 
application. it is informed that it is required to mention the 
title of the examination mentioned in the heading of the 
applications in English in Sinhala applications in addition to 
the Sinhala Language and in English in tamil applications 
in addition to the tamil Language.
09. the commissioner General of Examinations will 
conduct the Examination and the candidates are adhered to 
the Rules and Regulations imposed by the commissioner 

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
237
General of Examinations on the conduct of the examination 
and the issuance of the results. the Rules and Regulations 
for the Examination are mentioned below. 
10. Provision of False Information.– accurate 
information should be furnished carefully in filling the 
application. His/her candidature will be cancelled in any 
instance before the examination or during the examination 
or after the examination if it is revealed that any candidate 
is not qualified as per the rules and regulations of this 
examination. 
11. applications should be sent through registered post 
only through President of National colleges of Education/
Zonal Directors of Education to reach "The Commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizations and foreign 
Examinations branch, department of Examinations,                              
Sri Lanka, Post box 1503, colombo on or before 06th March, 
2020. the title of the examination should be mentioned on 
the top left hand corner of the envelope. the applications 
that are sent after this date will be rejected. 
12. With the presumption that only the candidates 
fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification 
have applied for the examination, the admissions shall be 
issued by the commissioner General of Examinations 
to the candidates who have submitted duly perfected 
applications with the relevant receipt subsequent to paying 
the prescribed Examination fee along with the receipt issued 
after paying the examination fee on or before the closing 
date of applications. A notification on the issuance of 
admissions shall be published in newspapers and the official 
website of the department of Examinations immediately 
after issuing admissions to candidates. a candidate ; who 
does not receive his/her admission two or three days after 
publishing the notification, should inform in that regard to 
the department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, as mentioned 
in the advertisement. full name, address and National 
identity card Number of the candidate and the title of the 
examination applied for should be indicated in making such 
inquiries. if the candidate resides outside colombo, it will 
be effective to fax a request letter along with such details of 
the candidate to the Fax No. mentioned in the notification 
including a fax number of the candidate through which the 
candidate can obtain a copy of the admission quickly via fax. 
in inquiring so, it will be useful to get prepared to produce 
the copy of the application kept with the candidate and copy 
of the relevant receipt if the payment of examination fees 
is applicable and receipt issued for sending the application 
by registered post in order to substantiate any information 
requested by the department of Examinations. issuance of 
an admission to a candidate should not be deemed as an 
acceptance that he/she has fulfilled qualifications for sitting 
the Examination. 
Note.– the complaints lodged by the candidates who 
fail to fulfill the requirements mentioned in the 
above paragraph No. 12 will not be entertained. 
13. the signature of the candidate should have been 
certified in the application and the admission. The candidate 
should get the signature certified by the Head of Institute 
or by an officer who is authorized by the Head of Institute. 
14. a candidate should sit the examination at the 
examination hall prescribed for him/her under the specified 
index Number. Every candidate should hand over the 
admission, in which his/her signature has been attested to 
the Supervisor of the Examination on the first day of sitting 
the Examination. a candidate who does not submit his/her 
admission formally is not permitted to sit the Examination. 
15. Submission of proofs to substantiate their identity at 
the examination hall is the responsibility of the candidates. 
only following proofs are accepted herein :
 (i) National identity card 
 (ii) Valid Passport, or
 (iii) Valid driving License
further, the candidates should enter the examination hall 
without covering the face and the ears so that their identity 
can be confirmed. Those who refuse to prove their identity 
will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. Moreover, 
the candidates should remain without covering the face and 
the ears from the moment they enter the examination hall 
until they leave the hall after finishing the examination so 
that the officials are able to identify the candidates. 
16. examination Fees : 
 (a) the fees charged for this examination will not be 
refunded or transferred to any other examination 
under any circumstances.
 (b) Fees are not charged for the first sitting. 
 (c) an amount of Rs. 250 will be charged for each 
sitting subsequent to the first sitting. 
the receipt obtained by paying this examination fee to any 
Post Office of the island to be credited to the revenue head 
20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations 
should be affixed firmly within the specified place of the 
application. it will be useful for the candidate to retain a 
photocopy of the receipt. Money orders or stamps will not 
be accepted for the examination fee. 

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
238
17. the candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examination in 
relation to the conduct of the Examination. it is informed 
that he/she will have to undergo any punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations in case of 
violating such rules and regulations. 
18. in case of any inconsistency among language texts 
of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail in such an instance. 
19. the Secretary of education reserves the right of 
deciding any matter which is not covered by this notification. 
  n. h. m. chithrananDa,
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of Education. 
at the Ministry of Education, 
isurupaya, Pelawatte,
battaramulla, 
on the 23rd January, 2020. 
SPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN 
link language (english) examination For 
sri lanka teacher eDucators' service - 2019
01.  (i) Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––.
    (ex. : HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
  (ii) Name indicating the last name first and the initials 
at the end (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
   (ex. GuNa WaRdHaNa, H. M. S. K.)
  (iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
02.  (i) Grade of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service 
:––––––––––.
  (ii) National college of Education/teachers' college/
teachers' centre :––––––––––.
  (iii) Zonal Education Office :––––––––––.
   (Applicable only for the officers employed in 
teachers' colleges/teachers' centers)
03. address :
  (i) Private :––––––––––.
  (ii) Official :––––––––––.
  (iii) address to which the admission should be sent                           
(in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
  (iv) Official Telephone Number :––––––––––.
  (v) Mobile telephone Number :––––––––––.
04.  (i) National identity card Number : 
  (ii) Sex : Male  - 0
     female  - 1
   (Write the relevant number in the cage)
  (iii) date of birth : 
   y ear : Month :  date : 
05. Particulars of the receipt obtained after paying the 
examination fee : 
 Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
 Post Office :–––––––––––. 
 date :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here
06. i do hereby declare that information mentioned above 
is accurate. further, i declare that i will be adhered to 
the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations pertaining to the conduct of 
the Examination and the issuance of results. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
07. commissioner General of Examinations : 
i do hereby certify that the applicant whose information 
stated above is an officer serving in my National College 
of Education/t eachers' college/teachers' centre. further, 
i certify that the applicant is released from paying the 
examination fee/the applicant has accurately affixed the 
receipt obtained after paying the examination fees. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the President of National college 
 of Education/Principal of the teachers' 
 College/Manager of the Teachers' Centre/Zonal 
 director of Education. 
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(Substantiate with the Official Frank)
(delete the words not applicable)
02-205

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
239
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.02.2020
240
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2020
 fEbRuARy 07.02.2020 friday — 24.01.2020 friday 12 noon
  14.02.2020 friday –– 31.01.2020 friday 12 noon
  20.02.2020 thursday –– 07.02.2020 friday 12 noon
  28.02.2020 friday –– 14.02.2020 friday 12 noon
 mARCh 06.03.2020 friday — 20.02.2020 thursday 12 noon
  13.03.2020 friday –– 28.02.2020 friday 12 noon
  20.03.2020 friday –– 06.03.2020 friday 12 noon
  27.03.2020 friday –– 13.03.2020 friday 12 noon
 APRIL 03.04.2020 friday — 20.03.2020 friday 12 noon
  09.04.2020 thursday –– 27.03.2020 friday 12 noon
  17.04.2020 friday –– 03.04.2020 friday 12 noon
  24.04.2020 friday –– 09.04.2020 thursday 12 noon
  30.04.2020  thursday –– 17.04.2020 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2020.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.