

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … –– 
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 582
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"167 – 2020 ud¾;= ui 13 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'03'13
No. 2,167 –  fRiday ,  maRch  13, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd april, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th march, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
579 - B 82017- 5,403 (03/2020)
N. B.–   Part ii of the Gazette No. 2,166 of 06.03.2020 was not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
580
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
581
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. however, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
he/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
582
Posts – vacant
bhIkSu uNIvERSITy Of SRI LANkA, 
ANuRADhAPuRA
Invitation for Applications/Nominations Post of 
mahopadyaya (Vice-Chancellor)
iN pursuance of the Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University 
act, No. 26 of 1996 and the amendment of act, No. 15 of 
2012, and provisions of the University Grants commission 
circular No. 4/2018 of 28th June 2018 applications or 
mominations for the post of the mahoPadyaya are 
invited from the qualified Bhikkus who have possessed the 
following qualifications :
 01. Post-graduate degree in Buddhist Studies or in any 
other subject connected thereto from a recognized 
university on a research done within a period of not 
less than two years ;
 02. Ten years of experience in the field of teaching ;
 
 03. Possess a good knowledge of oriental languages. 
 04. Shall be a disciplined Upasampada Bhikku who 
has completed twenty years after Upasampada. 
the mahopadyaya shall be appointed for the period 
of three (03) years. he shall be a full time officer of the 
University and the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief 
Academic Officer thereof. The Mahopadyaya shall be                             
ex-officio member of the Uththarithara Sabawa and                              
ex-officio member and Chairman of both the Council and 
the Senate. he shall be responsible for the maintenance of 
discipline within the University. the mahopadyaya shall be 
the Accounting Officer of the University, who shall comply 
with any determination or directive of the council. it shall 
be the duty of the mahopadyaya to give effect or to ensure 
that effect is given to the decisions of the council and of 
the Senate. The Mahopadyaya shall hold office for a term 
of three years or until he completes his sixty fifth year 
whichever event occurs earlier. 
the applicants/mominees should be citizens of Sri Lanka. 
the mahopadyaya is eligible to be placed on the 
highest salary scale of the University and be paid other 
allowances approved by the government and the University 
Grants Commission. He will also be provided an official 
vehicle with fuel allowance and residential facilities in the 
University premises. 
the following documents should accompany the 
application/nominations :
 (i) a  completed curriculum Vitae of applicant/
nominee including date of birth ; 
 (ii) a  personal statement of vision for the development 
of the University and a brief account of what the 
applicant/nominee expects to achieve if appointed 
to the post of mahopadyaya ;
 (iii) a  letter of consent from the moniee in case of a 
nomination ;
 (iv) a  letter from the employer indicating whether 
the applicant/nominee could be released in the 
event of his appointment to the post in case of 
the applicant/nominee serving in public service, 
corporations, Statutory bodies and higher 
Educational institutions other than the Bhiksu 
University of Sri Lanka ;
 (v) Where the present incumbent is an applicant such 
applicant should also give a report highlighting the 
accomplishments during his first term in office. 
the council shall select three names from among 
Bhikku applicants/nominees who possess the qualifications 
specified above and submit those names to the Uththarithara 
Sabawa and the Uththarithara Sabawa then shall select and 
recommend the name of one Bhikku applicant to the h. E. 
President through the hon. minister.
all eligible applicants for the post of mahopadyaya 
shall be invited for a brief presentation of minimum ten 
(10) minutes duration to the University council prior to 
commencing the election. 
applications/Nominations should be addressed to the 
"Registrar, Bhiksu University of Sri Lanka, Puttalam Road, 
anuradhapura" and sent under registered cover or hand 
delivered to reach him on or before 3.00 p. m. on 31st march 
2020.
the envelope containing application/nomination 
with relevant materials must be marked "Post of the 
mahopadyaya" on its top left-hand corner. 
applications received after the closing date and 
incomplete will not be entertained. 
 U. d. 
DoDanwala, 
 Registrar and Secretary to the council, 
 Bhiksu University of Sri Lanka. 
01st march, 2020.
03–473

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
583
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
ministry of Justice, human Rights and Legal Reforms 
Recruitment to the Post of State Counsel of the Attorney General’s Department - 2020
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who have fulfilled qualifications mentioned below to fill fifty (50) 
vacancies for the post of State counsel of the attorney General’s department.
01. Method of Recruitment. – Candidates who have fulfilled qualifications mentioned in the notification shall 
be subject to a first competency evaluation interview conducted by an interview board approved by the Public Service 
Commission and twice the number of candidates as the number of vacancies will be called to the final competency evaluation 
interview among those who obtain 50 marks or above. Recruitment will be made on the basis of the merit order of the final 
competency evaluation interview according to the existing vacancies. The first competency evaluation interview will be held 
in accordance with the marking scheme (indicated under No. 05) approved by the Public Service commission.
the number of appointees and the date on which the appointments will be effective will be determined in terms of 
the order of the Public Service commission.
02. Required Qualifications :
 i. Educational / Vocational Qualifications :
  having taken oaths as an attorney-at-Law at the Supreme court of Sri Lanka.
 ii. Physical Qualifications :
  Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to perform duties of the post in any part of Sri Lanka.
 iii. Others :
 • Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 • Should be of excellent character.
 • Should not have been convicted for any criminal charge under the Laws of Sri Lanka.
 • Should be qualified in all respects for the recruitment to this post as at the closing date of the 
applications.
 iv. Age Limit :
  candidates should not be less than 22 years and not more than 35 years as at the closing date of applications.
03. Conditions of employment and Conditions of Service :
 i. this post is pensionable. you shall be subject to any policy decision made by the Government in the 
future regarding the pension scheme you are entitled to. further, you shall contribute to the Widows’ and 
orphans’ Pension Scheme/ Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension Scheme. the contribution shall be made by 
you as ordered by the Government from time to time.
 ii. this appointment is subject to a probation period of three (03) years.
 iii. as per the Public administration circular No. 01/2014 and the circulars incidental thereto, the language 
proficiency of the relevant level should be obtained within the due period, and the officers who are recruited 
in the medium of a non-official language should obtain the official language proficiency within the period 
of probation.
 iv. this appointment is subject to the procedural rules of the Public Service commission, the Establishments 
code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial Regulations and other departmental orders.
04. Salary Scale.– monthly salary scale related to this post is Rs.75,000-10x1,630-91,300/- (aGS 2-2016).

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
584
05. The first competency evaluation interview will be conducted based on the following marking scheme.
Serial
No.
Marking Fields Marks Maximum
Marks
01. Educational Qualifications :
i. masters degree in Law (LLm) from a Government recognized institute / 
University
ii. Post Graduate Diploma in Law (of a relevant field) from a Government recognized 
institute / University
iii. Bachelors degree in Law (LLB) from a Government recognized institute / 
University with a 1st class pass
iv. Bachelors degree in Law (LLB) from a Government recognized institute / 
University with a 2nd class upper division pass
v. Bachelors degree in Law (LLB) from a Government recognized institute / 
University with a 2nd class lower division pass
vi. First Class Honours Pass at the final examination of Sri Lanka Law College
vii. Second Class Honours Pass at the final examination of Sri Lanka Law College.
a Government recognized University means, a University or an institute 
recognized by an incorporate council of Legal Education.
(All the aforesaid Educational Qualifications are subject to maximum 20 marks)
* The aforesaid Educational Qualifications should be proved by Certificates.
10
08
07
06
05
07
06
20
02. Professional Experience :
i. Skills demonstrated by appearing for cases at courts
ii. Skills demonstrated by serving as a Registered attorney-at-Law or a Legal 
counsel.
(Certificates should be produced for the aforesaid Skills.)
Note: A Certificate of Professional Skills from a Judge and Character Certificates 
obtained from two attorneys-at-Law who have completed not less than 
20 years service. Character Certificates issued by the Legal Officers of the 
attorney General’s department are not relevant.
10
10
20
03. Special Competencies :
i.  communication Skills
ii.  impromptu Speech Skills
iii.  Skill of Successful appearance before the council
iv.  Good command of Language
05
05
05
05
20
04. Skills demonstrated at the interview
i. Personality
ii. Leadership Qualities
iii. Knowledge on Law and court affairs
10
10
20
40
total 100
06. Identity of Candidates.– candidates who have forwarded completed applications in every aspect will only be 
called for the competency evaluation interview.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
585
The originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should be submitted at the interview.
Following identification papers will be accepted at the interview to establish the identity of the candidates.
 (i)  National identity card issued by the department for Registration of Persons.
 (ii)  Valid Passport.
07. Method of Application :-
 (i) the closing date of applications will be 15.04.2020
 (ii) applications may be obtained from the attorney General’s department, colombo 12 and should be sent 
by registered cover to the address to the “attorney General, attorney General’s department, P.o. Box 502, 
colombo 12” to be received on or before 15.04.2020, applications received after the date 15.04.2020 will 
be rejected.
 (iii) the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosed with the application should carry the words “application 
for the Post of State counsel.”
 (iv) complaints on misplacing or delaying an application or a letter in its connection in post will not be 
entertained. the repercussions of delaying applications till the closing date should be borne by the 
applicants themselves.
08. Furnishing False Particulars: If any of the particulars mentioned in the application sent by you, are found to 
be false or erroneous before the recruitment, your candidacy will be cancelled. in case such false or erroneous information 
is revealed after the recruitment, action will be taken any time to dismiss from service subject to the actions relevant thereto.  
09. The Public Service Commission reserves the right either to fill or not to fill the vacancies in the post.
10. in case of any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil and English texts in the Gazette notification, Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
By the order of Public Service commission,
attorney General.
Supreme court complex.
attorney General’s department, 
colombo -12,
on this 28
th day of february 2020.
03–638
––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC  SERvICE COmmISSION
Department of Animal Production and health 
REcRUitmENt oN oPEN BaSiS foR thE PoSt of LEGaL officER (GRadE iii of thE EXEcUtiVE 
SERVicE catEGoRy) - 2020
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka those who have fulfilled the qualifications asked for in this 
notification in order to fill vacancies in the post of Legal Officer in Grade III of the Executive Service Category existing in 
the department of animal Production and health which is under the ministry of mahaweli, agriculture and irrigation and 
Rural development. 
01. Mode of Recruitment.– Out of the applicants those who have fulfilled the qualifications stated in this notification, 
the applicant who scores the highest marks at the eligibility evaluation interview conducted by a board of panel appointed 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
586
by the Public Service commission will be recruited for this post. the eligibility evaluation interview will be conducted in 
compliance with the marking scheme (stated under No. 06) approved by the Public Service commission. 
the Effective date of the appointment will be decided by the Public Service commission. 
02. Qualifications required : 
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications.– Should have taken oaths as a Lawyer of the Supreme courts.
 (ii) experience.– Should have an active professional experience of not less than 03 years after taking oaths as a 
Lawyer of the Supreme courts (Duration, date and official seal should be clearly indicated in the documents 
to be submitted to the Board of interview to support the active professional experience) 
  or
  Candidate should have gained experience of not less than 03 years in the legal field, in a Government 
Institution, relevant to the following tasks after taking oath as an Attorney at Law of the Supreme Court :
 (a) Legal actions in respect of cases and coordinating with the attorney General's department, 
 (b) Legal activities connected with agreements,
 (c) Legal activities connected with relevant acts and ordinances,
 (d) compilation of legal documents such as draft of bills, circulars, regulations, 
 (e) Laws imposed by various Statutory institutions, court procedures or investigations (these facts should 
be confirmed by a certificate issued by the Secretary, Head of the Department).
 (iii) Physical Fitness.– Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island and 
to perform duties of the post. 
 (iv) Other qualifications :
 (i) applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Should be of excellent character, 
 (iii) Should have satisfied all required qualifications as at the closing date of applications. 
03. Terms of engagement and Service Conditions : 
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. you are subject to policy decisions taken by the Government in 
the future in respect of the pension scheme you are entitled to. Selected candidate should contribute to the 
Widows' and Orphans/Widowers' and Orphans Pension Scheme (W&OP) as specified by the Government 
from time to time. 
 (ii) this appointment is subject to a 03 probation period. as per the scheme of recruitment the selected candidate 
should pass the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination within 03 years of recruitment to the post. 
 (iii) Candidate should acquire the proficiency in other official language in addition to the language in which he/
she joined the service within 05 years from the date of appointment as per Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014. candidates, who joined the service in a language medium which is not an 
official language, should acquire the proficiency in the prescribed official language within the probation 
period. 
 (iv) this appointment is subjected to the Procedural Rules of the Public Services commission, Establishments 
code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial regulations of the Government and other 
departmental orders. 
04. Age Limit.– applicants should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of the 
applications. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
587
05. Salary Scale.– this post is entitled to a Salary Scale of (monthly) - Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 -8x1,630 -17x2,170 - 
Rs. 110,895. (Salary segment is SL-1-2016 of P. a. c. No. 03-2016 and dated 25.02.2016. Salaries will be paid in terms of 
the Schedule ii of the provisions of this circular).
06. Below mentioned marking Scheme will be based for the eligibility evaluation interview. 
No. Subject Marks Maximum Marks
1 Additional Educational Qualifications :
Post Graduate degree relevant to the field of Law obtained from a University 
recognized by the University Grants commission 
Post Graduate Diploma in relevant field or Post Diploma in law issued by an institute 
recognized by the government (not less than one year)
degree in Law obtained from a university recognized by University Grants 
Commission :
* for first class
* for Second class Upper
* for Second class Lower
* for General degree in Law
For First Class in the final year of  Law Collage
For Second Class in the final year of Law Collage
Note.– 05 Marks should be allocated if the candidate has passed the final exam with 
honors
(Marks will be given only for one maximum qualification)
25
20
15
10
07
05
10
05
25
02 Additional Professional Experience :
i. Additional Professional Qualifications :
For a diploma of which the duration is more than 01 year in the relevant field 
of Law offered by an institution recognized by the Government. (10 marks per 
diploma)
for a diploma of which the duration is more than 06 months and less than 01 year in 
the field of Law offered by an institute recognized by the government. (05 marks per 
diploma)
For a certificate course of which the duration is more than 03 months and less than 06 
months in the field of Law offered by an institute recognized by the government (03 
marks per certificate course)
(Certificates other than those for which marks were allocated under No. 01)
ii. Additional Experience :
Experience mentioned in 2(ii) of the notification to call applications (Other than 
the 03 year service period which is a requisite to fulfill the basic qualification)
– 25 marks as 05 marks per year
– More than 06 months and less than 01 year : 02 marks
* Additional qualification should be proved by a certificate obtained from an 
attorney-at-Law or a President's counsel or a Judge who has completed a 
service period of not less than 15 years. (Service period should be stated in the 
certificated itself which is issued for the applicant)
10
25
35

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
588
No. Subject Marks Maximum Marks
* In the event of certifying additional experience of a government officer or
a private sector officer who has completed above mentioned qualifications,
relevant Head of the Institute should prove it by a service certificate/certificates
that the applicant is serving in a post of legal field.
04 Knoweldge on Information Technology
for information technology as a main subject for a degree offered by a University 
recognized by University Grants commission
for a diploma course in information technology of 01 year/ not less than 1500hrs 
offered by an institute recognized by the government 
For a Certificate Course in Information Technology offered by an Institute recognized 
by the Government 
– 06 months/720 hrs
– 03 months/360 hrs
(Marks will be given only for the maximum qualification)
10
07
05
03
15
05 Language Proficiency
Post Graduate/
degree/Post LLB degree/LLB studied in English medium 
(all relevant exam papers answered for should be in English medium)
for a diploma course in English of which the duration is 01 year/not less than 1500 
hrs obtained form a University recognized by University Grants commission or from 
an institute recognized by the government. 
For a Certificate Course in English from a University recognized by the University 
Grants commission or from an institute recognized by the Government. 
- 06 months/720 hrs
- 03 months/360 hrs
(Marks will be given only for the maximum qualification)
15
10
07
05
15
06
Performance at the interview :
i. General knoweldge and intelligence
ii. Knoweldge on modern trends in the legal field
iii. capacity in expression of ideas clearly and personality
05
05
05
15
Total 
marks 100
Note.– If relevant time duration is not stated in the certificates which are submitted at the eligibility evaluation 
interview, it is the responsibility of the candidate, in respect of such certificates ; to submit wirtten documents 
on the time duration proved by respective Institutions. Certifictaes in which the time duration is not stated 
or not verified will not be considered to allocate marks. 
07. Identity of Candidates.– 
only the candidates who have submitted applications which are completed in all
aspects will be called for the interview that is conducted to check the eligibility. 
Originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should be submitted at the interview.
Any of the following should be submitted to prove the identity of the candidate at the interview : 
(i) National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons,
(ii) Valid passport.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
589
08. Submission of applications :
 (i) applications should be sent by registered post to 
reach the below mentioned address on or before 
03.04.2020. applications received after the 
closing date will be rejected. 
  director General, 
  dept. of animal Production and health, 
  P. o. Box 13, 
  Gatambe, 
  Peradeniya. 
 (ii) Specimen of the application to be submitted is 
attached at the end of this notification. Candidates 
should prepare themselves the application on a4 
size paper including No. 1.1 to 3.1 on first page 
and No. 3.2 to 4.7 on second page and No. 5 to 
8 on the third page. The applicant should fill the 
application in his/her own handwriting. 
 (iii) the words "application for the post of Legal 
Officer- Grade III" should be indicated on the 
top left corner of the envelope in which the 
application is enclosed. 
 (iv) Signature of the candidate on the application 
should be certified by a Principal of a Government 
School/Justice of peace/commissioner of oaths/
attorney at Law/Notary Public/commissioned 
Officer of three armed forces/an officer holding a 
permanent post in public service and receiving a 
monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 47,615.
 (v) candidates those who are already in Public 
or Provincial Public Service should submit 
their applications through the relevant head of 
institution. 
 (vi) applications, which are not in compliance with 
the specimen attached herewith, will be rejected. 
No complain on the applications lost or delayed 
will be entertained. 
09. Furnishing false information.– if any information 
furnished in the application is found to be false or incorrect 
before recruitment, your candidature, will be cancelled. if so 
found after recruitment, you are liable to be dismissed from 
service subject to relevant action. 
10. Right of filling or not filling the vacancies is vested in 
the Public Services commission. 
11. in case of any inconsistency or contradictory among 
the texts in Sinhala, tamil and English in this Gazette 
notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
12. the decision of the Public Service commission will 
be final in respect of any issue arisen on certain matter not 
mentioned in this notification or this process for recruitment. 
on the order of the Public Services commission, 
 Secretary,
 ministry of mahaweli, agriculture and 
 irrigation and Rural development. 
January, 2020.
Specimen application 
recruitment to the poSt of legal officer of the 
Department of animal proDuction anD health unDer the 
miniStry of mahaweli, agriculture anD irrigation anD 
rural Development
(For office use only)
(indicate the number relevant to the medium applied for in 
the cage)
Sinhala - 2/ tamil - 3/ English - 4
Note.– the medium cannot be changed once it is applied. 
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––
1.0 1.1 Name in Full (Mr./Mrs./Ms.) :––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
  e.g. : GUNAWARDHANA, M. G. B. S. K. 
 1.2 Name in Full :––––––––––––.
  (in English block letters)
 1.3 Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Ms.) :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.4 Name with Initials :––––––––––––.
  (in English block letters)
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil) 
 2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
  (in English block letters)
 2.3 Telephone No. :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'13
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2020
590
3.0 3.1 Gender :
  male - 0
  female - 1 
   (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 Civil Status : 
  married  - 1
  Unmarried - 2
   (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 3.3 Date of Birth : 
  Year : Month : Date :
 3.4 Age as at ............... 2020 :
  Years :   Months :    Days :
 3.5 NIC No. : 
4.0 4.1 Particulars of qualifications possessed for applying 
for the interview as per the notification for calling 
applications : 
  Institution from where Date
  qualifications obtained 
  .................................... .....................
  .................................... .....................
  the date of taking oaths as an attorney-at-Law of 
the Supreme court. 
 4.2 Particulars pertaining for possessing each 
qualification as per No. 06 of the notification for 
calling applications :––––––––––––.
 4.3 Additional educational qualifications :–––––––––.
 4.4 Additional professional qualifications :––––––––.
 4.5 Additional experience :––––––––––––.
 4.6 Proficiency in languages :––––––––––––.
 4.7 Knowledge in information technology :––––––––.
5.0 have you ever been found guilty by a court of Law ?   
(indicate (P) in relevant cage) (if the answer is yes, give 
particulars)
yest No
 ........................................................................................
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
6.0  Certificate of the candidate :
i hereby declare that particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct and all the parts of the 
application are correctly completed. i am aware that if any 
particular contained herein is found to be false i am  liable 
to disqualification before appointment and to dismissal 
from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. 
further i hereby agree to abide by all conditions. 
Date :––––––––––––. ––––––––––––––,
  applicant's Signature. 
7.0  Attestation of the signature of the candidate : 
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ................................
.. who submits this application is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on. 
Date :––––––––––––. ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the officer 
  attesting the signature. 
Name in full :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by the official stamp)
8.0  Recommendation of the Head of Department :
It is hereby certified that the above mentioned Mr./Mrs./
miss ........................................ is serving in this institution 
and further the particular furnished by him/her are correct. 
Further it is certified that his/her work, attendance and 
conduct are satisfactory and no charge has been made against 
the officer and the officer can be released from the service 
of this institution, if he/she is selected to the aforesaid post. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the head of the  
 department/institution. 
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Place the Official stamp)
03–410 
 