

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'19
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
41
41
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th  March, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
26th February, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
W. A. A. G . FONSEKA,
Government Printer ( Acting ).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2016.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 42
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"955- 2016 fmnrjdß ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'02'19
No. 1,955 - FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY  19,  2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'19
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
42
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/26916.
Deputy Land  Commissioner's  No.: Deba/3/2/13 .
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE   LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT is hereby notified that for the purpose of Residential, Mr. Pallege
Edman  Siriwardhana has  requested on lease a state land  containing
in extent about 15 Perches  out of extent marked lot No. A as
depicted in the  Tracing drawn by Land  Officer and   situated in the
village of  Kohombagahapelessa with belongs to the  Grama Niladhari
Division  of  Weerahela  coming  within the area of authority of
Thissamaharama Divisional Secretariat in the District of
Hambantota.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Residential Land  of Gunendra ;
On the East by : Road Reservation of Thissa - Kataragama;
On the  South by : Residential Land of Mohottige
Aariyawathi ;
On the West by : Main Left Canal Reservation.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years  (From 15.06.1995);
The Annual Rent  of the Lease. – 4% of the  undeveloped
value of the land as per valuation of the Chief  Valuer for
the Year 1995 ;
Penalty .- Treble  4% of the  developed  value of  the land;
(b) The  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessee  must not use this land for any purposes  other
than for  the purpose of  residential activities  ;
(d) This  lease  must  also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary  Scoping committee/Board of investment of Sri
Lanka  and  by other  Institutions;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) No sub  - leasing  can be done  until the  expiry of a  minimum
period of 05 years from 01.04.2015;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
 If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
S. A. K
ALANI M. DHANASEKARA,
Assistant Land Commissioner( Land),
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat,
No. 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
29th January, 2016.
02-576
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/41626.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: LC/L/19/19/L.T/PAS/16.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the purpose of   Commercial (Small
Water Power  Plant  Construction), Boralesgamuwa,  katuwawala,
No. 76  Udula Energy Solution Private Limited  has   requested on
lease a  State land containing in extent about 92.39 Perches   out of
extent marked Lot No. C, D, E, F  Tracing No.  MR/PSG/2014/221
and   situated in the  Village of  Mekiliyathenna   with  belongs to the
Grama Niladari Division  of No. 249 B, Mekiliyathenna  coming
within the  area  of authority of   Pasgoda   Divisional Secretariat in
the  District of Matara.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
Part of Land C
On the North by : Lot B, Amangiliyehena and
Ilukmandiyahena  owned by State and
Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by K. Kumudu Sarath   ;
On the East by : Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by K. Kumudu Sarath   ;

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'19
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.02.2016
43
On the  South by : Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by U. G. Ajith Kumara, Lot No. E
and Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by K. Kumudu Sarath   ;  ;
On the West by : Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by K. Kumudu Sarath   ;
Part of Land  D
On the North by : Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by  U. G . Ajith  Kumara and Road
(Road Development Authority) ;
On the East by : Road (Road Development Authority) Lot
No 80
0 in F. V . P. 23, Amangiliyehena  and
Ilukmandiyahena owned by U. G. Ajith
Kumara and Lot No. E   ;
On the  South by : Lot No.  80 
0 in F. V . P . 23 Amangiliyehena
and Ilukmandiyahena owned by U. G .
Ajith Kumara Lot  No. E  ;
On the West by : Lot No. E and  Amangiliyehena and
Ilukmandiyahena owned by U. G. Ajith
Kumar   ;
Part of Land  E
On the North by : Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by  K. Kumudu Sarath,
Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by  U. G . Ajith  Kumara and Lot
No. D  ;
On the East by : Amangiliyehena  and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by U. G . Ajith Kumara and Lot
No. D, Lot No. 80
P in F. V . P 23 and Lot
No. F   ;
On the  South by : Lot No. F, Subway Streams and
Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by U. G. Ajith Kumara ;
On the West by : Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by U. G. Ajith Kumara   ;
Part of Land  F
On the North by : Lot No. E, Amangiliyehena and
Ilukmandiyahena  owned by   U. G . Ajith
Kumara and  Lot No. 80 
P in F. V . P. 23;
On the East by : Lot No. 80 P in F. V . P 23 and Subway
Streams ;
On the  South by : Subway Streams ;
On the West by : Amangiliyehena and Ilukmandiyahena
owned by U. G . Ajith Kumara and Lot
No. E.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( From 19.12.2015
to 30 Years);
The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 4% of the  Commercial
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer for
the year 2015. This amount of the lease must be
quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the amount
as  a result of the  revision will be not  less than  50% of the
amount that just preceded.
Premium  - Three times of the annual rent of the  lease  ;
(b) The lessee must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes  other
than  the purpose of  Commercial   ;
(d) This  lease  must  also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary/Scoping Committee/Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka and   by other  Institutions;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) No sub - leasing can be done  until the expiry  of a  minimum
period of 05 years from 19.12.2015   ;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
N
UW ANI SUDUSINGHE ,
Deputy Land Commissioner ,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",Land Secretariat,
No. 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
05th  February,  2016.
02-577
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.