

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2211$55 - 2021 ckjdß ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2021'01'21
No. 2211/55  -  THURSDAY ,    21,   JANUARY,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations &  C., by the President
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A-  G  33562 — 385  (01/2021)
 Seal GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA
By His Excellency Gotabaya Rajapaksa, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
To :
1. Hon. A.H.M.D. Nawaz Esquire
Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Chandra Fernando Esquire
Retired Inspector-General of Police
3. Nimal Abeysiri Esquire
Retired District Secretary
Greetings !
Whereas, the decision taken by the Government of Sri Lanka to withdraw from co-sponsorship of 40/1 Resolution
in March 2019 on Reconciliation, Accountability and Promotion of Human Rights in Sri Lanka and its preceding resolutions
30/1 of October 2015 and 34/1 of March 2017 has been announced at the 43
rd session of the United Nations Human Rights
Council held on 26th and 27th of February 2020;
Whereas, the policy of the Government of Sri Lanka is to continue to work  with the United Nations and its Agencies
to achieve accountability and human resource development for achieving sustainable peace and reconciliation, even though
Sri Lanka withdrew from the  co-sponsorship of the aforesaid resolutions;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2021
2A
Whereas, the Government of Sri Lanka is committed to ensure that, other issues remain to be resolved through
democratic and legal processes and to make institutional reforms where necessary to ensure justice and reconciliation;
Whereas, it has been identified as a fundamental requirement to pursue a non-aligned foreign policy that protects
the sovereignty of Sri Lanka in achieving the objectives stated in the Government Policy Statement;
Whereas, preceding Commissions of Inquiry and Committees have been set up to investigate the alleged violations
of human rights which had been reported to have occurred;
Whereas, said Commissions of Inquiry and committees have reported that certain human rights related and other
offences have taken place and have made various recommendations;
And whereas, I am of the view that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to investigate and
inquire into and report or take necessary action on matters hereinafter referred to and provided for,
Now therefore, I, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing great
trust and confidence in your integrity, prudence, ability and fidelity, do in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of the
Commission of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393), by these presents appoint you, the said –
1. Hon. A.H.M.D. Nawaz Esquire
Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Chandra Fernando Esquire
Retired Inspector-General of Police
3. Nimal Abeysiri Esquire
Retired District Secretary
to be my Commissioners to  investigate and inquir e into, take necessary actio n or report on the following matters,     
namely –
(a) Find out whether preceding Commissions of Inquiry and Committees which have been appointed to investigate
into human rights violations, have revealed any human rights violations, serious violations of the international
humanitarian law and other such serious offences;
(b) Identify what are the findings of the said Commissions and Committees related to the serious violations of
human rights, serious violations of international humanitarian laws and other such offences and whether
recommendations have been made on how to deal with the said facts;
(c) Manner in which those recommendations have been implemented so far in terms of the existing law and what
steps need to be taken to implement those recommendations further in line with the present Government policy;
(d) Overseen of  whether action is being taken according to  (b) and (c) above;
Further, I do hereby appoint you the said Hon. A.H.M.D. Nawaz, Judge of the Supreme Court to be the Chairman of
the said Commission.
.
Further, I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to conduct or cause the conduct of
necessary investigations and inquiries and require you to transmit to me Interim Reports where it is necessary, and the final
Report within six months of the date hereof under your hand, setting out the findings of your investigations and inquiries,
and your recommendations relating thereto.
And, I do hereby direct such part of any inquiry relating to the aforesaid matters as you may in your discretion
determine, shall not be held in public.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2021
3A
Further, I hereby direct all Government Officers, Officers of the Statutory Boards and other persons from whom
you may request assistance or information for the purposes of your investigations or inquiries, to give all possible
assistance to the task at hand and provide all possible information.
Further, I hereby declare that the provisions of Section 14 of the Commission of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) shall
apply to this Commission.
Given at Colombo under the Seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka on this 20
th day of January Two
Thousand and Twenty one.
By His Excellency’s Command,
P.  B .  JAYASUNDERA,
Secretary to the President.
02 - 17
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.