

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'19
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 19.02.2016
611
wxl 1"955 - 2016  fmnrjdß 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'02'19
No. 1,955 -  FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 19,  2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices for
publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. All
Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect
of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time both from
the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti fication will not be
entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th March, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th February, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall  be
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
W.  A.  A.  G.  FONSEKA,
Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 612
By-Laws ... ––
Posts - V acant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
611

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'19
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 19.02.2016
612
Provincial Councils Notifications
Rural Development Statute No. 02 0f 2015
of the Central Provincial Council
A Statute to provide for the establishment of a Rural Development, Department and registration and maintenance of
Rural Development Societies and establishment, registration and maintenance of  Rural Development Divisional Authorities,
Provincial Authorities, establishment, maintenance and regularization of Women Development Centers and make
consequential provisions for Rural Development in the Central Province and for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto.
Be it passed by the Provincial Council of the Central Province of the Democratic, Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka as follows:
1. This Statute may be cited as the Rural Development Department Statute No. 02 of 2015 of the Provincial Council
and shall come into operation from the date of receiving the assent of the Governor  of the Central Province.
PART - I
Establishment of the Central Provincial Council Rural Development Department
2 There shall be established a Department called and known as the Department of Rural Development of the
Central Province (hereinafter referred to as the Department) for the purpose of carrying out the objects and
functions connected with the subject of Rural Development in the Central Province.
3. There shall be appointed a Provincial Director to the Department for the purpose of performing and giving effect
to the powers and functions vested by this statue.  He shall be the Head of the Department and shall   appointed
by the Governor of the Central Province.
4. There shall be appointed of other officers and staff that may be necessary to assist the Provincial Director of
Rural Development, according to provisions of the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 for the purpose of
carrying out powers, duties and functions under this Statute.
5. There shall be appointed District Officers in Kandy, Matale and Nuwara-Eliya by the Secretary to the Ministry,
with the approval of the Minister in charge of the subject, if he think, when it is necessary.
6. The powers and functions of the provincial Director may be delegated to the officers appointed under Section 4
above for the Divisional Secretaries.
7. Objectives of the Department.
a. Establishment, maintenance and activating the Rural Development  Societies,  and  Authorities  for the
purpose of implementing rural development projects with the rural community participation.
CENTRAL PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Central Province Year 2015 Rural Development Statute No. 02
WE hereby publish the above statute which was passed by the Central Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on
17th November 2015 and approved by the Hon. Governor of the Central Province on 4th December, 2015 to inform all.
HON. PREMITHA BANDARA TENNAKOON,
Minister,
Ministry of Sports, Youth Affairs, Women,
 Rural Development and Industries.
Central Province.
P. O. Box 41
Getambe,
Peradeniya.
Name in brief
and date of
implementation.
Establishment of
Rural
Development
Department.
Central Province
Rural
Development
Director.
Appointment of
other officers
required for the
Department.
Delegation of
Power.
Objectives of the
Department.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'19
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 19.02.2016
613
b. Development of essential infrastructural facility projects identified by the rural community making use of
the community contributions.
c. Implementing rural development projects and rural economy generating projects required for the sustainable
rural economic development.
d. Development of  capabilities of rural community and encouraging the Department officers contributing
for this process through training and aware programmes which are necessary for development of rural
leadership.
8. The Department shall have under mentioned powers for the performance of its functions.
a. Establishment, registration, administration, supervision, dissolution and auditing of Rural Development
Societies, Rural Development Divisional Authorities and  Rural Development  Provincial  Authorities.
b. Establishment,  administration, management, maintenance and supervision of Rural Women Development
Centers.
c. Take action to provide vocational training for beneficiaries of Rural Women Development Centers and
thereby encouraging self oriented business among them.
d. Planning, implementation, Supervision and management of Programmes Rural Development Societies
and Authorities.
e. Entertain assistance of eminent individuals of the Government, Provincial Council, Ministries, Departments
and other institutions, Local Government Institution or Government or Provincial Council legal boards.
f. Implementing maintaining and developing infrastructure facility programmes that promote the living
conditions of the people.
g. Conducting training programmes for the development  of the capacity of the rural mass and as well as the
officers of the Department.
h. Maintaining co-ordination with Government,  non Government Organizations and  Local Government
Institutions  that make contributions for rural development.
i. Implementing social, economical and cultural programmes identified for rural development.
j. Custody and possession of any movable and immovable property to be vested by transfer, donation,
grant, gifts, testimony or by any other manner, according to the No. 42 of the Local Government Act, of
1987 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Constitution of 1978.
k. Take action in respect of the objectives and functions specially determined in this Statute or all matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.
l. Making to audit finance and accounts reports forwarded  by the Rural Development Societies, Divisional
Authorities and Provincial Authority and taking legal action on finance frauds  revealed therein.
PART - II
Rural Development Societies
9. Rural Development Societies may be established for each Grama Niladari Division or for a part of Grama
Niladari Division or for several Grama Niladari Divisions as may be specifically determined by the Director of
Rural Development.
10. The objectives of a Rural Development Society shall be -
a. Improving cultural systems that pave the way for attitudinal changes and continuously mange them
preserving the indigenous identity.
b. Creation of a leadership that can lead the united co-existing and self-relying rural community, that is the
basis of rural development.
Powers and
function of the
Dept.
Rural
Development
Societies.
Objectives of
Rural
Development
Societies.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'19
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 19.02.2016
614
c. Creation of a resource management that will be a basis for rural development giving priority for environment
equalization and for ascertaining unidentified rural energetic forces.
d. Development of infrastructure facilities required for rural population.
e. Strengthening the family unit, creation of unity and co-existence, and also women and child care
development.
11. The powers and functions of a Rural Development Society, subject to directions and supervision of the development
shall be;
a. Lawfully obtaining lands, funds, goods and instruments  as gifts for requirements of development.
b. Purchasing take on lease and rent out land/ property and entering into contracts in respect of same.
c. Leasing, renting and vesting of land or property for requirements of development and entering into contracts
in respect of same.
d. Procure contracts from Government and non-Governmental institutions according to Finance  circulars
for the purpose of performing development services and entering into contracts regarding same.
e. Other powers related to implement the targets of the  Rural  Development Societies.
 f. Every Rural Development Society shall submit the reports, mentioning the finance situation for the previous
year,  before the end of 31st  March of the current year.
   12.  a. The Secretary to the Ministry with the recommendation of the Provincial Director shall from time to time
approve other provisions  that shall contain regarding  the contents, fund  and maintenance of the Rural
Development Societies in the constitution of every Rural Development Society.
b. A Society shall have the right to draft a  constitution to its own, subject to the general  provisions,
mentioned in the Statute.
13. A Rural development society shall maintain a Fund subject to provisions shown in a constitution of a Rural
Development Society, and the said fund shall be maintained in a State Bank.
PART - III
Rural Development Divisional Authorities
14. There shall be single Divisional Rural Development Authority for every Divisional Secretary area of the Central
Province with the combination of all Rural Development Societies functioning within a Divisional Secretary area.
The Divisional Authority shall consist of  selected members representing registered Rural Development Societies
in the Divisional Secretary area. For this purpose one representative from every registered Rural Development
Society shall be nominated.
15. The objectives of a Divisional Rural Development Authority shall be -
a. Obtaining the active-participation of civil society for provincial development.
b. Promotion of inter-relationship among community organizations at rural level.
c. By the request of one or more Rural Development Societies of the Division,
                         (i)   Planning a Co-ordinated development programme  for the Divisional Authority area.
                         (ii)  Maintaining social welfare services.
d. Maintaining social welfare services by the   Authority.
e. Building up funds for capital and other  requirements of the member societies.
Powers and
functions
of Rural
Development
Society.
Constitution of a
Rural
Development
Society.
R. D. S. Fund
Divisional Rural
Development
Authority.
Objectives of
Divisional
R.D Authority.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'19
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 19.02.2016
615
16. Functions of a Divisional Rural Development Authority shall be -
a. Provide necessary instructions for the member societies to build up and maintain their activities.
b. Build up funds to meet the capital and financial requirements of member societies.
c. Provide low interest loan and credit assistance for   member  societies.
d. Assisting to establish new rural development societies and to reorganize- societies and to initiate action
according to the constitution.
e. Extension of women and child care activities within  the Divisional Secretary area and maintain social
and  welfare services.
 f. Every Divisonal Authority shall submit the  reports,  mentioning the finance situation for the  previous
year,  before the end of 31st  March of the  current year.
             g. Take any other actions necessary and relevant for the purpose of achieving above objectives mentioned
in  the Section No. 15 of the Statute.
17. The  District Rural Development Officer or the officer authorized by him shall tender meetings and make
supervisions of the Divisional Rural Development Authorities.
18. a.  Other provisions required for maintaining a Rural Development Divisional Authority shall be subject to
provisions of the constitution of the Rural Development Divisional Authority as determined time to time by
the Secretary to the Ministry, by the recommendation of the Provincial Director.
b. Rural Development Divisional Authority shall have the rights to draft a constitution to its own for the requirements
of the Division, subject to the general provisions of the  Statute.
19.  Subject to the provisions of the Rural Development Divisional Authority have the rights to maintain a fund.  The
fund shall be maintained in a State Bank.
PART - IV
Rural Development Provincial Authority
20.  A Rural Development Provincial Authority shall be established for the Central Province.
21.   Every Divisional Authority shall be a member of the Provincial Authority and such authority shall be composed of
one representative from each Divisional Authority.
22.  The objectives of the Provincial Authority shall be –
a. Providing necessary leadership and assistance for planning development programmes to fulfill the goals
prescribed in the constitution of Rural Development Regional Authority and Rural Development Society
Statute.
b. Supervising, Monitoring and Evaluating rural development programmes implemented in the Central
Province.
c. Conforming the co-operation of the Government and non Governmental organizations relating the rural
development  in  Central  Province.
d. Coordinating  the programmes of Rural Development Divisional Authorities in the Central Province.
e. Coordinating and assisting for the development of Rural Women  Development Centers, established in
the Central Province.
Powers and
functions
of a Rural
Development
Authority.
Tender and
inspection
Constitution and
provisions of
Rural
Development
Divisional
Authority.
Rural
Development
Divisional
Authority fund
Composition of
the Provincial
Authority.
Objective of the
Provincial
Authority.
Establishment
Rural
Development
Provincial
Authority.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'19
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 19.02.2016
616
23. Powers and Functions of the Rural Development Provincial Authority shall be,
a. Carry out studies in respect of rural development programmes and projects in the Central Province.
b. Maintain co-ordination with other Government and non Government organizations for obtaining necessary
assistance in implementing any rural development programmes.
c. Considering and directing the proposals and suggestions to the Department submitted to implement the
rural development programmes efficiently by the Rural Development Divisional Authorities in Central
Province.
  d. Tendering progress review meetings thrice in a year and preparation of feed back reports.
                e. Every Provincial Authority shall submit the reports, mentioning the finance situation for the
previous year, before the end of 31
st  March of the  current year.
24. a. There shall be a constitution for Rural Development Provincial Authority, its composition, fund and activities
make other provisions to implement them and the Secretary to the Ministry, with the recommendation of
the Provincial Director shall form them time to time.
b. The Rural Development Provincial Authority have the rights to draft a constitution, subject to the general
provisions of the Statute.
25. A fund shall be maintained for the Rural Development Provincial Authority, subject to the directions and provisions
of the constitution of the Rural Development Provincial Authority .  The said fund shall be maintained in a State
Bank.
26. The Provincial Director or the Deputy Director or the Assistant Director, authorized by the Director shall tender
Rural Development Provincial Authority meetings and do inspections.
PART- V
Registration of Rural Development Societies and Authorities.
27.  Every Rural Development Society and every Divisional, District and Provincial Authority shall be registered with
the Provincial Director.
28.   Regulations under Section 27, required for the purpose of registration shall be determined by the Minister.
29.  Applications for registration shall be forwarded to the Provincial Director by the Divisional and Provincial Authorities
according to provisions mentioned under Section 28.
30.  If the Provincial Director is satisfied, that the applications forwarded by Rural Development Society, Divisional,
and Provincial Authorities for registration have fulfilled the registration requirements, such Society or Authority
may be registered.
31. Where the Provincial Director is not satisfied, as to the applications for registration forwarded by a Rural
Development Society, Divisional and Provincial Authority have not fulfilled the requirements, then such registration
may be refused.  The reason for the refusal of registration shall be notified in a written form to the respective
Society within 14 days of refusal.
32. An appeal may be forwarded within 30 days of refusal of the registration, to the Secretary to the Ministry,  and
the decision of the Secretary to the Ministry is final.
33.  A Rural Development Society or an Authority by the reason of registration and by the name assigned to it be a
body corporate, and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal, hold property and enter into agreements
and may sue and be sued in such name.
Other Provisions
of the R. D.
Provincial
Authority.
Constitution  of
the R.D.
Provincial
Authority
Fund  of the R.D.
Provincial
Authority
Calling meetings
and supervision
Registration of
Rural
Development
Societies
authorities
Registration,
Regulations
Forwarding of
Application for
Registration
Issuing
Registration
Certificates
Rejection of
Registration
Corporate Bodies
Rural Development
Societies and
Authorities
Registered should
be Corporations
Powers for Appeal

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'19
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 19.02.2016
617
PART - VI
Establishment of Rural Women Development  Centers
34. There shall be established a Rural Women Development  Centers at Divisional Secretary area level for the
purpose of improving the economic conditions and capabilities of rural women living within the Central Province.
These centers shall be supervised by the Department.
35. Provide vocational training and competencies in sewing and handicrafts for rural women through Rural Women
Development Centers and training courses may also be conducted required for the progress of rural women folk.
36. Provincial Director or the officer authorized by him, will be able to select trainees for Women Development
Centers and decide on the training courses to be conducted at these centers.
PART - VII
General Provisions
 37 . The Minister has the power to,
a. Implement necessary regulations under Section 8 and,
b. Implement  necessary regulations for the purpose of carrying out regulations and directions for achieving
the objectives under Section 20 of the above Statute;
38.  The Director shall also have the powers to take legal action on any financial misdeed or fraud revealed by such
auditing process.  The certificate issued by the Director on such misdeeds, shall be treated as an important
witness on the amount charged from such persons.
39. Every regulation to be formed under Sections 37 shall published in the  Gazette by the Minister and shall be
adopted by the Provincial Council, within 03 months duration.
40. Establishment , registration,   and auditing of the  Rural Development Societies within the Divisional Secretary
area shall come under the Rural Development Officer with  the  recommendation  of  Divisional Secretary.
41. If any misdeed or fraud  revealed  when performing matters of Rural Development Societies and  Divisional
Authorities within the Divisional Secretary area,  the Minister shall  have the power to   dissolve such Societies
and Authorities, with the recommendation of  the Provincial Director of the Rural Development.
42.  ( a)  Any person who acts in contravening and violating provisions of any rural or regulation enforced under
this statute or any provision of this Statute shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall be
subject to trial in a Court of Law  and  subject to a penalty  not exceeding Rupees two thousand five
hundred or an imprisonment not exceeding 06 month or liable to the two penalties.
 (b) If any finance fraud or less utilized money matters performed by any Rural Development Society, Divisional
Authority or a Provincial Authority, reported to a Court of Law, such financial fraud  and less utilized
amount of money shall be treated as penalty,  imposed on such Rural Development Societies, Divisional
Authorities and Provincial Authority and the amount charged as penalty shall be credited to the accounts
of the  Rural Development Societies/Divisional Authorities and the Provincial Authority.   All amount
imposed as penalties under this Statute, shall be credited to the Central Provincial Fund.
Interim Provisions
43. The person who are serving as Provincial Director  before the determined date shall be treated as the Director
appointed under Section 3 and the officers who was serving before the determined date shall be treated as the
officers appointed under Section 4 of the said Statute.
44. a. All  assets, liabilities, loan bonds, legal matters of the Department and entered agreements with the
Department before the determined date shall be treated as the assets, liabilities, loan bonds, legal matters
and agreements entered  under  the said Statute.
Establishment
Rural Women
Development
centers.
V ocational
Training
Selection of
Trainees and
selecting
programmes
.
Imposing
regulations
relevant to draft
statute.
Guilty of an
offense and
punishments.
Auditing societies
and authorities
Recommendation
of Divisional
Secretary on
registration and
auditing
Post  holding
Directors and
officers.
Auditing
Societies and
Authorities
Assets,
liabilities, bonds
maintenance.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'19
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 19.02.2016
618
b. All assets, liabilities, loan bonds, legal matters and entered agreements on contracts  by Rural Development
Societies and  Divisional Authorities,  before the determined date shall be treated as the assets, liabilities,
loan bonds, legal matters and agreements entered by the Rural Development Societies and Divisional
Authorities, established under the said Statute.
Interpretation
45. The “Governor” means the Governor of the Central Province.
“Minister” means the Minister in change of the subject of rural development in the Central Provincial Council.
“Secretary to the Ministry” means the Secretary of the ministry in change of the subject of Rural Development
in the Central Provincial Council.
“Divisional Secretary” means the Secretary in charge of a Divisional Secretary Division in the Central Province.
“Provincial Director” means the Director of the Rural Development in the Central Province.
“District Officer of Rural Development” means the officer authorized by the Provincial Director of Rural
Development in Central Province, to implement the rural Development activities in relevant District.
“Rural Development Officer” means the officer authorized by the Director of Rural Development of Central
Province implement rural development activities in the relevant division of Divisional Secretary.
“Societies” means a Rural Development Societies functioning within the Central Province.
“Authority” means the rural Development Divisional Authorities and the Rural Development Provincial Authority
functioning within the Central Province.
“Property” means are property such as books, documents and records; cash in hand and in bank, furniture and
equipments, land and buildings, projects and immovable and immovable property own by the rural developments
societies, or Rural Development Authorities.
“Constitution” means constitutions drawn up for Rural Development Societies, Rural Development Divisional
Authorities, the Rural Development Provincial Authority and approved by the Board of Ministers of the central
provincial council.
          “State Bank” means the state bank established under Finance Regulation Act.
“Non Government Organizations” mean the voluntary organizations registered under V oluntary and Social
Institutions (Registration and Supervision) Act.
 “Provincial Finance Regulations” mean the Finance Regulations imposed by the Hon. Governor of Central
Province under Sections 19 (5) and 23 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987, with effect from 01st of
January, 2008.
           “Determined Date” means the effective date of this Statute.
“Women Development Center” means the training centers established for activate rural women to provide vocational
competencies.
46. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute, the Sinhala texts shall
prevail.
02-488
Interpretation.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Prevailing Sinhala
Texts