

<!-- page 1 -->

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2065$29 - 2018 wfm%a,a ui 04 jeks nodod - 2018'04'04
No. 2065/29 -  WEDNESDAY   APRIL   04,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
 NORTHERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Northern  Province  Pawnbrokers  Statute  No. 06 of 2017
NOTICE is hereby given that the Northern Province Provincial Council has adopted the Northern Province Supplementary
Provision for Appropriation Statute No. 06 of 2017 on 22nd June 2017 and that the Hon. Governor Northern Province has given
his Assent to it on 26th March 2018.
                              K. THEIVENDRAM,
                                 Secretary,
                                     Council Secretariat,
                                      Northern Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
A 9 Road,
Kaithady,
27th March, 2018.
A    STATUTE      TO    PROVIDE   FOR   THE   REGULATION    OF   THE    BUSINESS   OF   PA WNBROKERS   WITHIN
THE   NORTHERN    PROVINCE    AND    FOR MATTERS     CONNECTED   THEREWITH   OR   FOR   MATTERS
INCIDENTAL THERETO.   THIS    STA TUTE   IS    INCONSISTENT    WITH   THE   PROVISIONS    OF   P A WN   BROKERS
ORDINANCE   (CHAPTER 99).
BE it enacted by the Northern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A PG 3973 — 27 (04/2018)


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
2 A
PART I
GENER AL
1. This Statute may be cited as the Northern Province Pawnbrokers Statute No.  06 of 2017 and shall
come into operation on such date as the Governor of the Northern Province may give his assent
thereto.
2. The Provisions of this Statute shall apply to the business of pawnbrokers carried on by any person
other than banks.
P ART II
REGISTRATION    AND    LICENCING
3. No person shall carry on the business of a pawnbroker unless such person is registered as a
pawnbroker with the Provincial Revenue Commissioner (hereinafter referred to as “Provincial
Commissioner”) of the Northern Province.
4. (1) Every person who desires to carry on the business of a pawnbroker shall apply for
registration on a prescribed form with the prescribed fee to the Provincial Commissioner:
Provided however, an individual who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or a foreign company or a
foreign firm shall be disqualified to apply for registration as a pawnbroker within the Northern
Province.
(2) No person shall be registered for carrying on the business of a pawnbroker if-
(a) he is an auctioneer;
(b) at any time during the five years immediately preceding the date on which he makes his
application for registration, he has been found guilty of an offence;or
(c) in the opinion of the Provincial Commissioner, the shop or place in which that person
intends to carry on the business of pawnbroker, or any adjacent house or place possessed
by him, is not suitable for carrying on the business of pawnbroker.
5. (1) On and after the coming into operation of this Statute, no registered person under section 4
shall engage in any business of pawnbroker except under the authority of a license issued by
the Provincial Commissioner for that purpose.
(2) Every registered person under section 4 shall submit a separate application to obtain a separate
licence for every place of business and branch thereof.
(3) Every licence shall be dated on the day of which it is issued, and shall expire on the thirty-first
day of December next ensuring.
(4)  The Provincial Commissioner shall have the power to delegate in writing to any authorized
officer his authority under subsection (1) to issue a licence in respect of the business of
pawnbroker.
6. (1) Every application for the issue of a licence under section 4 shall be made in the prescribed
form  to the Provincial Commissioner.
(2) Every application submitted under subsection (1) shall contain complete and accurate
information of all required particulars and be accompanied by the prescribed fee.
Short title and
date of
operation
Applicability of
this Statute
Registration of
a pawnbroker
Licensing the
business of
pawnbroker
Application for
registration
Application for
licence and the
processing of
such application

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
(3) (a) Where a business of pawnbroker is carried on by an individual and he intends to convey
such business of pawnbroker to a person upon his death, such individual shall subject
to the provisions of section 4, nominate a person.
(b) A document containing rights and obligations of such nominated person shall be
accompanied with the application under subsection (1). Such document shall be signed
by both parties.
(4) Where a business of pawnbroker is carried on by anybody of persons corporate or
unincorporate, such body of persons corporate or unincorporate shall submit a copy of the
certificate or agreement to that effect.
(5) Upon having considered the information and particulars contained in an application submitted
under subsection (1), Where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant has
fulfilled the requirements as prescribed pertaining to suitability to be issued with a licence
under section 4, he shall issue such licence in Form ‘A ’ set out in the Schedule I to this Statute.
(6) An application found to contain false, misleading or incorrect information or particulars shall
be rejected.
7. (1) Every pawnbroker shall immediately after the receipt of licence but before the commencement
of the business of pawnbroker, deposit the prescribed amount as security in a prescribed
manner with the Provincial Commissioner.
(2) In the event of closure or conveyance of business, the sum deposited in terms of subsection
(1) shall be refunded to such pawnbroker after the deduction of any amount payable to a
pawner of articles by such pawnbroker.
8. A licence issued under section 6, shall—
(a) be subject to such terms and conditions as specified in the licence;
(b) become operative from such date as shall be specified in the licence; and
(c) unless earlier revoked, be in force for the period as specified in the licence.
9. (1) A licence issued under section 6 may be renewed upon an application being submitted for that
purpose to the Provincial Commissioner in the prescribed form accompanied by the prescribed
renewal fee, not less than thirty days prior to the date of expiration of the licence previously
issued.
(2) A copy of annual statement of account of the business of such pawnbroker for the financial
year immediately preceding the year of application shall be annexed to the application for
renewal of licence made under subsection (1).
(3) The Provincial Commissioner may renew a licence on receipt of an application under subsection
(1), where—
(a) the licensee has not violated or done anything in contravention of the terms and
conditions of the licence issued;
(b) the licensee has not contravened any provisions of this Statute or any regulations made
thereunder;
(c) the licensee has not at any time during the five years immediately preceding the date on
which he makes his application for such licence, been found guilty of an offence;
Security
Form and
duration of a
licence
Renewal of a
Licence

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
4 A
(d) in the opinion of the Provincial Commissioner, the shop or place in which that person
intends to carry on the business of pawnbroker, or any adjacent house or place possessed
by him, is suitable for carrying on the business of pawnbroker; or
(e) the Provincial Commissioner is of the opinion that such holder of the licence has not,
during any application, and in relation to his business as a pawnbroker, dealt in practices
which are contrary to the spirit and the purposes of the provisions of this Statute.
(4) The provisions of section 7 shall apply in respect of a licence issued on renewal under this
section.
10. A licence issued under section 6 may be suspended by the Provincial Commissioner, where-
(a) any charges were framed against the licensee under this Statute or any regulations made
thereunder;
or
(b) the licensee has contravened any provisions of this Statute or any regulations made
thereunder and the severity of such contravention does not warrant a cancellation of
the licence.
11. A licence issued under section 6 shall be cancelled by the Provincial Commissioner, where-
(a) it is found that the licence had been obtained by providing false, misleading or inaccurate
information;
(b) the licensee has been convicted of an offence under this Statute or regulations made
thereunder, or of any fraud in his business or of receiving stolen goods knowing them to
be stolen;
(c) the licensee has been convicted for an offence under any written law;
(d) the licensee has contravened any provision of this Statute or any regulation made
thereunder; or
(e) the licensee has acted in contravention or in violation of any terms or conditions subject
to which such licence was issued.
(2) Where a licence issued is suspended or cancelled as the case may be under section 10 or this
section, it shall be the duty of the Provincial Commissioner to inform forth with the licensee
of such suspension or cancellation, by a written communication sent under registered post
to the address given by the licensee.
12. Where an application for the issue or renewal of a licence under section 6 or section 9, as the case
may be, has been refused, the reasons for such refusal shall be recorded by the Provincial
Commissioner. It shall be the duty of the Provincial Commissioner to inform the person making
such application within a period of thirty days, by a written communication sent under registered
post to the address appearing in the application, of the reasons for such refusal.
13. (1)  Any person aggrieved by a decision refusing the issue or renewal, as the case may be,
of a licence or the suspension or cancellation of a licence issued, may, within three
months of the date of receipt of the written communication informing such person, of the
refusal or the suspension or cancellation, as the case may be, appeal against such
decision to the Board of Review appointed by the Minister.
Suspension of a
licence
Reasons to be
Communicated
Cancellation of a
licence
Appeals

<!-- page 5 -->

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
(2) The decision on any appeal submitted under subsection (1) shall be made within sixty
days of the receipt of such appeal and the person making such appeal shall be informed
of the decision made on it, forthwith.
(3) Where the Chief Secretary considers it appropriate, he may hold such inquiry as deemed
necessary in the circumstances of the case, prior to arriving at any decision on any
appeal made to him under subsection (1).
(4) The decision of the Chief Secretary on any appeal made under this section, shall be final
14. (1) The Provincial Commissioner shall forward a copy of the licence issued under above
section 6 to the Superintendent of Police in charge of the area within which such
business of pawnbroker is intended to be carried on.
(2)  It shall be the duty of the Provincial Commissioner to inform such suspension or
cancellation of licence under sections 10 or 11 as the case may be, to the Superintendent
of Police in charge of the area within which such business of pawnbroker was carried on.
15. The holder of a licence issued under section 6 shall not transfer such business of pawnbroker
to which such licence relates without the written approval of the Provincial Commissioner.
16. The Provincial Commissioner shall annually publish in the Government Gazette, a notice
containing, name of licensed pawnbroker, name of the place of business and the address of the
premises where the business of pawnbroker is carried on
P ART III
POWERS,  FUNCTIONS  AND DUTIES  OF  P AWNBROKER
17. Every pawnbroker who intends to be absent from Sri Lanka during any period exceeding three
months shall -
(a) give a written notice of the intention to go abroad to the Provincial Commissioner and
obtain written approval of the Provincial Commissioner for such absence.
(b) nominate a person in terms of the provisions of the Statute to carry on the business
of pawnbrokerduring his absence in Sri Lanka.
18. No pawnbroker shall accept any article for pawn before 8.00 a.m. and after 8.00 p.m. on any day.
19. No pawnbroker shall carry on the business of an auctioneer.
20. Every pawnbroker shall –
(a) display in legible characters over the outer door of his shop or place of business, the
name of his business, licence registration number and the word ‘’Pawnbroker” in Tamil,
Sinhala and English; and
(b) display in a conspicuous place of his business place, so as to be clearly visible to and be
legible by every person visiting such place, a notice in Tamil, Sinhala and English
containing particulars set out in the Schedule - II to this Statute.
Transfer of
licence
without prior
approval of
the Provincial
Commissioner
Notice of
absence from
Sri Lanka
Copy of the
licence to be
sent to the
Superintendent
of Police
Bisness hours
of a pawn
brokers
Notices to be
exhibited by
Pawnbroker
Publication of
details of the
licensee
Pawnbroker
not to act as
an auctioneer

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
6 A
21. (1) Where any particulars in any book, form or document are required to be entered by this
Statute, such particulars shall be entered in Tamil or Sinhala language.
(2) Every pawnbroker shall maintain a Pledge Book substantially in Form “B” and a Sale
Book of Pledge substantially in Form “C” as set out in the Schedule - I to this
Statute and shall enter all relevant particulars.
(3) It shall be the duty of the pawnbroker to submit the same to the Provincial Commissioner,
if required to do so.
22. (1) Every pawn receipt shall be substantially in Form “D” as set out in the Schedule - I to this
Statute.
(2) The particulars specified in the Schedule – II to this Statute shall be printed legibly in
Tamil or Sinhala on the reverse of the Form “D” as set out in the Schedule - I to this
Statute.
(3) Where a pledge is pawned, the foil of the pawn receipt relating to such pledge shall
bear the stamp duty to the prescribed value in the receipt. The expense incurred in
providing such stamps shall be borne by the pawnbroker.
(4) No any article shall be considered to be accepted in pawn unless and until.
(a) The pawner has signed the counter foil of the pawn receipt;
(b) The pawnbroker has signed the foil of the pawn receipt and has given the foil to
the pawner.
(c) The pawner has received and accepted the foil of the pawn receipt from the
pawnbroker and;
(d) annual interest is specified in the pawn receipt.
23. No pawnbroker shall charge an interest exceeding the rates specified in the Schedule - II to this
Statute:
Provided that where business turnover tax is payable in respect of a loan given on a pledge,
nothing included in the preceding provisions of this section shall be deemed to prohibit the
pawnbrokers from recovering such tax from the pawner.
P ART IV
PLEDGES
24. Every pledge shall be redeemable within a period of twelve months (hereinafter referred to as the
“period of redemption”) from the day of pawning, exclusive of that day.
25. Notwithstanding anything in this Statute to the contrary, every pledge shall continue to be
redeemable, until it is disposed of,as provided in this Statute, although the period of redemption
has expired.
26. (1) The pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge, if he surrenders to the pawnbroker the
original foil of thepawn receipt relating to that pledge and signs such foil in the presence
of the pawnbroker or his agent or servant.
(2) A person other than the pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge, if such person
surrenders to the pawnbroker the original foil of the pawn receipt relating to that pledge
duly endorsed with the signature of the pawner and if such person signs such foil in the
presence of the pawnbroker or his agent or servant.
Book form or
document to be
kept by
Pawnbrokers
Pawn receipt
Interest
Period of
redemption
Pledges continue
to be redeemable
until sale
Procedure for
redemption of a
pledge

<!-- page 7 -->

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
(3) Where by reason of the death or a disability of the pawner, the holder of the original foil
of the pawn receipt relating to the pledge claims to be entitled to redeem that pledge, but
is unable to surrender to the pawnbroker the original foil of the pawn receipt duly
endorsed and signed by the pawner, the pawnbroker shall permit the pledge to be
redeemed, if such holder of the original foil of the pawn receipt, surrenders to him the
said original foil of the pawn receipt relating to that pledge together with a declaration
substantially  in the Form ‘’E” set out in the Schedule - I, duly signed before a Justice of
Peace or a Commissioner for Oaths by such holder and by the person identifying him.
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3), the pawnbroker shall, on payment
of the loan, the interest due thereon, and the business turnover tax, if any, payable in
respect of such loan, deliver the pledge to the pawner or holder of the pawn receipt
relating to the pledge and the pawnbroker is hereby indemnified in respect of such
delivery of the pledge:
Provided however, if the pawnbroker has reason to suspect that such holder has obtained the
possession of the original foil of the pawn receipt illegally,the pawnbroker shall immediately
seize and detain such person and the receipt, and hand over them forthwith to the police officer
or to the Grama Niladhari who shall forthwith produce such person and the receipt before a
Magistrate’s Court.
27. If a person entitled and offering to redeem a pledge shows to the satisfaction of a civil court
having jurisdiction that the pledge has become, or has been rendered, of less value than it was
at the time of pawning thereof, by or through the default, neglect or willful misbehavior of the
pawnbroker, the court, if it thinks fit, award a reasonable compensation, to the satisfaction of the
owner of the pledge and the amount of compensation shall be deducted from the amount
payable to the pawnbroker, or shall be paid by the pawnbroker in such manner as the court may
direct.
28. (1) Any person claiming to be the owner of a pledge, but not holding the original foil of the
pawn receipt, or any person claiming to be entitled to hold the original foil of the pawn
receipt, but who alleges that the original foil of the pawn receipt has been lost, stolen,
mislaid, destroyed or fraudulently obtained from him, may furnish to the pawnbroker a
declaration substantially in the Form “F” set out in the Schedule - I, duly made before a
Justice of Peace by himself and by the person identifying him as a witness, and shall
thereupon have as between himself and the pawnbroker, all the same rights and remedies
as if he produced the original foil of the pawn receipt:
Provided that for the purpose of redeeming a pledge he shall sign the counterfoil of the
pawn receipt and not the original foil of the pawn receipt thereof as required by section 26.
(2) The pawnbroker is hereby indemnified for delivering the pledge or otherwise acting in
conformity with the declaration, unless he has actual or constructive notice that the
declaration is fraudulent or false in any material particular.
29. (1) Where the original foil of the pawn receipt is surrendered to the pawnbroker for the
purpose of redeeming a pledge, the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession the original
foil of the pawn receipt and counterfoil of the pawn receipt for a period of two years
reckoned from the date of the redemption of that pledge.
(2) Where a pledge is redeemed without the surrender of the foil of the pawn receipt relating
to the pledge, the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession for a period of two years
reckoned from the date of the redemption of that pledge the counterfoil of the pawn
receipt relating to the pledge and the declaration furnished to him under section 28(1) for
the purpose of such redemption.
Compensation
for depreciation
of pledge
Protection of
owners and of
pawner not
having receipt
Pawn receipt to
be retained by
the pawnbroker
after redemption
or sale of Pledge

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
8 A
(3) Where a pledge is sold under the provisions of this Statute, the pawnbroker shall retain
in his possession the counterfoil of the pawn receipt relating to the pledge for a period
of twelve months reckoned from the date of sale.
30. (1) Where in any circumstances any pledge is lost while in pawn with any pawnbroker, the
present market value of such pledge shall be payable to the pawner or to any other
person entitled to redeem such pledge. The security furnished by such pawnbroker shall
be applied in the prescribed manner to the payment of compensation to the pawner or
any other person entitled to redeem such pledge.
(2) Where a person ceases to carry on the business of a pawnbroker, the amount of security
furnished by him less any sum applied therefrom to the payment of such compensation
as referred to in subsection (1) shall be returned to him.
31. (1) Where a pledge is destroyed or damaged by or in consequence of fire, natural disaster or
any other consequence, the pawnbroker shall be liable on demand within the period of
redemption to pay the value of the pledge, after deducting the amount of loan and
interest, and business turnover tax if any, payable in respect of such loan.
(2) Every pawnbroker shall have his business insured to the full extent of the value of the
articles pawned with him.
(3) Every pawnbroker shall be liable to take necessary steps to store the pawned articles in
a safe manner.
32. Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of redemption of the pledge issue a receipt for the amount
of loan and interest paid to him and the taxes if any recovered by him and preserve a copy of
such receipt with the pledge book. Such receipt shall be substantially in the Form “G” set out in
the Schedule - I to this Statute.
33. (1) Every pledge which is not redeemed within the period of redemption may be disposed by sale in
a public auction, but shall not be disposed of otherwise and regulations in theSchedule – III to
this Statute shall be observed with reference to the sale.
(2) Where a pledge is to be sold by public auction under the preceding provisions of this
section, the pawnbroker with whom such pledge has been pawned shall give at least
sixty days’ notice in writing to the Provincial Commissioner, of the date and time fixed for
such auction sale and the place where such sale is to be held. The Provincial Commissioner
shall inform his decision to the pawnbroker twenty-one days prior to such sale.
(3) Where a pledge of a pawnbroker is to be sold under this statute, the pawner shall be
informed by registered post fourteen days prior to the saleof pledge the date, time and
place of sale.
34. (1) In every case where a pledge is sold under this Statute for a sum more than the amount
of the loan and interest due on the date of sale and any tax payable in respect of such
loan, the pawnbroker shall –
(a) forthwith inform the pawner of such pledge, the amount for which the pledge
was sold, and of the amount lying to the credit of the pawner after deducting
the necessary costs and charges of the sale;
Application and
return of
security
furnished by
Pawnbrokers
Liability of
Pawnbroker
incase of fire,
natural disaster
or any other
consequence
Procedure at sale
of Pledge for
more than the
amount of the
loan, interest
and business
turnover tax
Receipt of
pawnbroker
Pledges to be
sold by auction

<!-- page 9 -->

9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
(b) on demand made within one year from the date of such sale, pay to the holder
of the original foil of the pawn receipt relating to that pledge the amount lying
to the credit of the pawner;
(c) if no such demand is made within the period of one year from the date of such
sale, forthwith on the expiry of such period, entrust such sum of money lying
on the credit of the pawner to the Provincial Commissioner.
(2) The pawner shall be informed immediately after the money is entrusted to the Provincial
Commissioner.
(3) Where the pawner makes a request to the Provincial Commissioner within a period of
two years from the date of sale, the Provincial Commissioner shall take necessary steps
to pay such amount within a period of thirty days to the holder of the original foil of the
pawn receipt.
(4) Where no such request is made within a period of two years under subsection (3), such
amount of money shall be transferred to the Northern Provincial Council Fund.
(5) No request shall be entertained upon the expiry of period of two years from the date of
sale.
35. A pawnbroker may bid for and purchase at a sale by auction, held or purporting to be held under
the provisions of this Statute, a pledge pawned with him, and on such purchase, he shall be
deemed to be the absolute owner of such pledge purchased.
PART   V
INSPECTION,   EXAMINA TION   AND   SEIZURE
36. The Provincial Commissioner or Provincial Deputy Commissioner or an assessor authorized by
the Provincial Commissioner in writing shall have the authority to inspect the accounts of the
business of a pawnbroker.
37. At any time within two years from the date on which a pledge is sold under the provisions of this
Statute, the holder of the original foil of the pawn receipt may inspect the entries of the sale in the
pawn broker’s book or in the catalogue containing information about the auction sale authenticated
by the auctioneer. The pawnbroker shall permit the holder of the original foil of the pawn receipt
to inspect the entries of the sale in such book or in the catalogue.
38. Where any person –
(a) who offers to a pawnbroker an article by way of pawn, refuses or is unable to
produce the National Identity Card, passport or driving licence;
(b) who offers to a pawnbroker an article by way of pawn, refuses or is unable to
provide a satisfactory account of the means by which he became in possession
of it;
(c) willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker as to whether an article offered
in pawn to the pawnbroker by such person is his own property or not, or as to
his name and address, or as to the name and address of the owner of the article;
(d) attempts and endeavors to redeem a pledge not being entitled to redeem; or
Power of
inspecting  sale
book
Purchase of
pledges by
pawnbroker
Proceedings
where persons
offering articles
in pawn do not
give a good
account of
themselves
Inspection of
Business

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
1 0 A
(e) offers to a pawnbroker an article by way of pawn and the pawnbroker has
reason to suspect that it has stolen or otherwise illegally obtained, being the
pawnbroker may seize and detain the person and the article and deliver them as
soon as possible into the custody of a police officer or Grama Niladari who shall
forthwith produce the person and the article before a Magistrate Court to be
deal with according to law.
39. (1) It shall be lawful for any group of officer authorized by the Provincial Commissioner
to enter any pawnbroker’s shop or place of business or residence at any hour of the
day time and examine and take necessary notes of any article pledged with the
pawnbroker or any books and documents maintained by him. If the
ProvincialCommissioner is of  the opinion that the assistance ofthe Police is necessary,
a police officer may accompany the officer or officers so authorized.
(2) No person shall resist any such officer or group of such officers in the execution of
suchduties.
PART   VI
OFFENCES   AND   PENAL TIES
40. Every person who –
(a) offers to a pawnbroker an article by way of pawn, but refuses or is unable to
give a satisfactory account of the means by which he became possessed of
such article;
(b) willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker as to whether an article offered
by him in pawn to the pawnbroker is his own property or not, and as to his name
address, or as to the name and address of the owner of such article;
(c) without lawful excuse, pawns with pawnbroker anything being the article of
another person;
(d) attempts or endeavors to redeem a pledge not being a person entitled to redeem
such pledge;
(e) makes a declaration under this Statute either for himself or as identifying another,
knowing such declaration to be false in any material particulars; or
(f) contravenes any provisions of this Statute or fails to do anything which he is
required to do by this Statute,shall be guilty of an offence.
41. Every pawnbroker who –
(a) accepts an article in pawn from any person appearing to be under the age of
eighteen years or to be intoxicated;
(b) accepts an article in pawn without giving the original foil of the pawn receipt;
(c) purchases or takes in pawn or exchange the original foil of the pawn receipt
issued by another pawnbroker;
(d) employs any servant under the age of eighteen years to accept an article in
pawn;
Power to search
Pawnbroker’s
shop or residence
Offences by
pawners and other
persons
Offences by
pawnbrokers

<!-- page 11 -->

1 1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
(e) purchases, except at a sale by public auction under this Statute, any pledge
when, in pawn with him;
(f) offers any pledge while in pawn with him to be redeemed with a view to
purchasing it;
(g) agrees with any person, pawning or offering to pawn any article, to purchase,
sell or dispose such article within the period of redemption;
(h) sells or otherwise disposes of any pledge pawned with him, except at such time
and in such manner as is authorized by this Statute;
(i) makes any false entry in any book required to be kept by him under this Statute
or fails to make therein any entry which he is required to make by this Statute;
 (j) seizes and detains any person under sections 26 and 37 of this Statute without
any reasonable or justifiable cause;
(k) fails to have his business insured to the full extent of the value of all articles
pawned with him;
(l) contravenes any provision of this Statute or fails to do anything which he is
required to do by this Statute;
(m)  fails to forward the annual statement of accounts to the Provincial Commissioner
under the provisions of this Statute,
shall be guilty of an offence.
42. Every pawnbroker who knowingly accepts in pawn any linen or apparel, or unfinished
goods or materials entrusted to any person to wash, clean, iron, mend, manufacture,
workup, finish or decorate shall be guilty of an offence. and,Where any court convicts
any pawnbroker of an offence under this section, the court may in addition to any
other punishment which such court may impose for that offence, order the pawnbroker
to restore the pledge to the owner thereof in the presence of court or in any other
manner as the court directs.
43. Every pawnbroker who fails to deposit with the Provincial Commissioner the amount
lying to the credit of a pawner as required by section 34 shall be guilty of an offence
and where any court convicts any pawnbroker for such offence, the court may, in
addition to any other punishment which it may impose for that offence, order a sum
equal to such amount to be recovered from the pawnbroker as it were a fine imposed
by the court.Every such sum of money when recovered by the court shall be deposited
in the Northern Provincial Council Fund.
44. Anything done or omitted to be done by the servant or agent of a pawnbroker in the
course of the business or in relation to the business of a pawnbroker, shall be deemed
to be done or omitted, as the case may be, by the pawnbroker:
Provided however, where in the absence of a pawnbroker from the shop or place of
business, anything is done or omitted to be done by any servant or agent of the
pawnbroker in contravention any provision of this Statute, such servant or agent
shall be guilty of an offence.
45. (1) Every person who is guilty of an offence under this Statute shall be liable to a fine not
exceeding two hundred thousand rupees or imprisonment for a period not exceeding
six months or both the fine and imprisonment.
(2) The fine charged and collected by a Court under this subsection shall be credited to
the Northern Provincial Council Fund.
Prohibition of
taking on Pawn
linen clothing,
unfinished goods
Pawnbroker
failing to deposit
money in
Provincial
Council Fund
lying to the
credit of a
pawner
Offencec by
servant or agent
of pawnbroker.
Pena lty

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
1 2 A
46. Whenever it is reported to a court in any Legal proceeding filed under this Statute
that apawnbroker is in unlawful possession of an article or several articles it shall be
competent to such court to order the production of the article or articles and its
delivery to any person named by such court, under such terms, if any, as it may think
proper.
PART  VII
GENERAL   PROVISIONS
47. (1) Where a business of a pawnbroker is carried on by an individual, upon his death, the
business shall,upon the registration made under section 4 be conveyed to the person
nominated under section 6 of this Statute.
(2) Where a nominated person predeceases the pawnbroker and no person is nominated
by such pawnbroker, upon the death of such pawnbroker, the Provincial Commissioner
shall appoint a person to liquidate the business of such pawnbroker.
(3) (a) Where a pawnbroker is unable to carry on his business owing to any disability
or any other reason, such pawnbroker may nominate a person his place. Such
nomination shall be made subject to the provisions of section 4 of this Statute.
(b) The Provincial Commissioner may register such person and the business shall
be conveyed to such nominated person.
(4) Wherethe business of a pawnbroker is conveyed under subsection (2) or (3), the
ProvincialCommissioner shall, upon being satisfied issue a licence to the person to
whom the assets and liabilities have been conveyed.
(5) Where the business of a pawnbroker is to be carried on by partnership, the partnership
agreement shall consist of such provisions to protect the rights of pawners, when
liquidating such business.
48. (1) Where any pawnbroker intends to convey his business of pawnbroker, such
pawnbroker shall make a written request to the Provincial Commissioner accompanied
by-
(a) a certificate from the officer in charge of the police station where the business
place is situated, and from the officer in charge of the police station where the
pawnbroker resides to the effect that there are no complaints against him;
(b) a certificate from the officer in charge of the police station where the person to
whom such business is intended to be conveyed (hereinafter referred to as the
“conveyor”) resides to the effect that there are no complaints against him;
(c) an affidavit to the effect that there is no criminal proceeding in courts against
the pawnbroker and the conveyor; and
(d) all information in respect of all pledges to be redeemed and any other information
necessary.
(2) The pawnbroker who has made the request under subsection (1) shall not accept any
articles in pawn from the date of such request.
(3) Upon the request made under subsection (1), such pawnbroker shall, within a period
of one week publish a notice containing the name, address and National Identity Card
number of the conveyor in a daily newspaper in Tamil, Sinhala and English languages.
Articles
unlawfully
possessed by a
pawnbroker
Nomination
Conveyance of
business of a
pawnbroker

<!-- page 13 -->

1 3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
(4) The notice referred to in subsection (3) shall be affixed in a conspicuous part of the
place of business.
(5) The Provincial Commissioner shall, upon being satisfied issue a licence to the
conveyor.
49. (1) Where any pawnbroker intends to liquidate his business of pawnbroker, such
pawnbroker shall communicate his intention to the Provincial Commissioner before
three months prior to the liquidation of business accompanied by-
(a) a certificate from the officer in charge of the police station where the business
place is situated, and from the officer in charge of the police station where the
pawnbroker resides to the effect that there are no complaints against him;
(b) an affidavit to the effect that there is no criminal proceeding in courts against
him; and
(c) all information in respect of all pledges to be redeemed and any other information
necessary.
(2) The pawnbroker referred to in subsection (1)shall not accept any articles in pawn
from such date.
(3) Upon the communication intimated under subsection (1), such pawnbroker shall,
within a period of one week publish a notice containing his name, address, National
Identity Card number and licence number of the pawnbroker, and the intention to
liquidate business of pawnbroker in a daily newspaper in Tamil, Sinhala and English
languages.
(4) The notice referred to in subsection (3) shall be affixed in a conspicuous part of the
place of business.
(5) The Provincial Commissioner shall nominate an officer under whose supervision
such liquidation shall take place.
50 (1) Where any pawnbroker, who is required in terms of this Statute or any regulation
made there under to furnish a deposit as security has failed to do so within the
specified period, such amount shall be deemed to be a default in the payment which
such pawnbroker is liable to pay under this Statute.
(2) Where upon the death of a person who carried on a pawn business under a license
issued upon this Statute, all money and charges payable in respect of all time periods
immediately before his death, he had been livng shall be executed by his executors
who shall be responsible for all actions, matters and things of the deceased under this
Statute.
Provided however
(a) No legal Ation shall be filed against executors in respect of any action or default
of the deceased person
(b) An executor shall not be ordered to pay any sum of money payable in respect
of any period before the death of such person after the expiry of three years
from the date of this death.
Liquidation of
business of a
pawnbroker
Default of
pa yment
Death of an
owner of a
business

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
1 4 A
(c) The responsibility of an executor under this section shall be limited to
(i) Estate of the deceased person which the executor possessed and was
under his control at the time of delivery of such notice to him regarding
any binding arising under the provision of this Statute.
(ii) To an amount of any share a beneficiary may receive from such property
estate.
51 (1) Where a prawnbroker makes default in the payment of any sum which he is liable to
Pay under this Statute, the Provincial Commissioner shall before taking proceedings
to recover any sum in default in the manner hereinafter provided, issue Notice
substantially in the Form ''A" set out in schedule IV to this Statute together with the
required particulars substantially in the form ''B" set out in Schedule IV to this
statute.
(2) The pawnbroker who is in default in payment of any sum which he is liable to pay
under this statute, may within fourteen days of the Notice issued under sub section
(1) object to the payment of such sum and the Provincial Commissioner shall consider
such objection and give his decision thereon which shall be final.
Provided that where the Provincial Commissioner is satified that owing to illness,
absence from Sri Lanka or other reasonable cause, the defaulter under subsection (1)
was prevented from objecting within fourteen days of the issue of the Notice, he
shall grant an extension of time for preferring such objections.
(3) (a) Upon the lapse of fourteen days of the Notice or reaching of final decision
under subsection (2), where such pawnbroker makes default in the payment of
any sum which he is liable to pay under this Statute, the Provincial Commissioner
shall issue a Certificate substantially in the Form ''C" set out inschedule IV to
this Statute together with a certified copy of the notice served on the pawnbroker
and certified copy of the particulars issued under subsection (1) to the Magistrate
having jurisdiction in the division in which the place of business of the
pawnbroker is situated or in which pawnbroker resides.
(b) The Magistrate shall, thereupon summon such pawnbroker before him to show
cause why further proceedings for the recovery of the sum due under this
Statute should not be taken against him, and in default of sufficient cause being
shown, such sum shall be deemed to be a fine imposed by a sentence of the
Magistrate on such pawnbroker for an offence punishable with imprisonment
and the provisions of section 291 (except paragraphs (a), (d) and (i) of subsection
(1) thereof) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 relating to the
default of payment of a fine imposed for such an offence shall thereupon apply
and the Magistrate may make any direction which, by the provisions of that
subsection, he could have made at the time of imposing such sentence.
(4) (a) Where a pawnbroker makes default in the payment of any sum which he is liable
to pay under this statute and the Provincial Commisssioner is of opinion that
recovery of the amount in default under subsection (3) of this section is
impracticable or where the full amount due has not been recovered, then he may
issue a certificate substantially in the form ''C"set out in the schedule IV to this
Statute together with certified copy of the notice served on the pawnbroker and
certified copy of the particulars issued unde subsection (1) to the District Court
Notice to
pawnbroker who
is in default

<!-- page 15 -->

1 5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
having jurisdiction in any district where the defaulting pawnbroker resides or in
which any property movable or immovable of such pawnbroker is situate.
(b) The district Court shall thereupon direct a writ of execution to issue to the fiscal
authorizing and requiring him to seize and sell all the property movable and
immovable of the defaulting pawnbroker or such part thereof as he may deem
necessary for the recovery of the amount so due and the provisions of sections
226 and 297 of the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101) shall mutatis mutandis
apply to such seizure and sale.
(5) The correctness of any statement in a notice or any entry in the particulars issued to
the pawnbrokers under subsection (1) or in a certificate issued to the Court under
subsections (3) and (4) for the purpose of this section, shall not be called in question
or examined by the Court in any proceedings under this section, and accordingly
nothing in this section shall authorize the court to consider or deside the correctness
of any statement in a notice or any entry in the particulars issued to the pawnbroker
under subsection (1) or in a certificate issued to the Court under subsections (3) and
(4) and shall be sufficient evidence that the amount due under this Statute from the
defaulting pawnbroker has been duly calculated and that such amount is in default.
(6) Where a pawnbroker against whom an order or direction as the case may be, has
been issued under subsection (3) or (4) has failed to comply with such order or
direction, such pawnbroker shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding Ten Thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding one year or
to both such fine and imprisonment.
(7) The provisions of the Prescription Ordinance (Chapter 68) shall not apply to the
recovery of any sums payable as security under this Statute.
(8) In this section, ''pawnbroker" includes a director or a principal officer of a company
or body of persons or corporate body, or partner of the partnership, or member or an
officer - bearer of an unincorporated body.
52 (1) For the purpose of this Statute, the Provincial Commissioner may, by written notice
require any pawnbroker or agent-
(a) to produce specified book, accounts, trading lists, stock lists, registers, vouchers,
cheque books, pawn receipts, pledge books, audit reports or any other
documents mentioned in such notice within a specified period of time;
(b) to supply any information relating to the business of pawnbroaker;
(c) to be present at a time, date and place mentioned in the notice, by himself or to
be represented by an authorized person to investigate any matter or any matters.
(2) When a notice is served upon any person to furnish any information mentioned
under subsection (1), it shall be the duty of the pawnbroker o agent to comply with
such direction.
(3) The Provincial Commissioner may have the authority to take such books, accounts,
trading lists, stock lists, registers, vouchers, cheque books, pawn receipts, pledge
books, audit reports, or other documents in to his custody for a certain period, for
the purposes of this Statute.
The Provincial
Commissioner
may require
information

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
1 6 A
53 No prosecution for any offence under this Statute shall be instituted except by or
with the written sanction of the Provincial Commissioner.
54 (1) Every pawnbroker or his agent or officer of a business of pawnbroker and every
person, who by reason of his capacity or office, has any access to the records,
registers, correspondence or any other material of such business shall keep absolute
secrecy with regard to the contents thereof, in the interests of the pawner.
(2) Every other person referred to in subsection (1) shall not give, divulge or reveal any
information whatsoever regarding such business to any individual, corporation,
bank, court, institution, entity, department, official, agent, representative of the
Government of Sri Lanka or any other Government or to any other legal or natural
person or judicial unless-
(a) the pawnbroker of such business or pawner of such article gives his permission
so to do;
(b) legal proceedings are instituted by , or against such pawnbroker or by , or against,
the pawner;
(c) he is required to do so, by any provision of any law.
P ART   VIII
Making Regulation
55 (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to
the provisions of this Statute.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the
Minister may make regulations for all or any of the following matters -
(a) all matters in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to be made
under this Statute;
(b) information to be included in any report required to be submitted under this
Statute;
(c) books and registers to be kept and maintained by the Provincial Commissioner
and particulars to be entered therein;
(d) registration fees to carry on a business of pawnbroker ; and
(e) fees, and security deposit to be furnished by a licensee, and the manner of
depositing security fees.
(3) All regulations made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall be
placed before the Northern Provincial Council within three months of such Gazetting
and be approved by such Northern Provincial Council.
(4) Every regulation which is not approved by the Northern Provincial Council shall be
deemed to be rescinded from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation shall be deemed to be rescinded,
shall be published in the Gazette.
56 For the purpose of this Statute, any person who purchases or receives or takes in goods
and pays, or advances or lends thereon any sum of money under an agreement or
understanding expressed or implied, or be from the nature and character of the transaction
Prosecution
Regulations
Deemed to be
carrying on a
business of
pawnbroker
Secrecy

<!-- page 17 -->

1 7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
reasonably inferred that those goods may be redeemed or purchased on any conditions,
or who maintains a shop for the purchase or sale of goods or for taking goods by way of
security for money advanced thereon shall be deemed to be carrying on the pawn
business and further every such transaction, article payment advance and loan shall be
deemed a pawning, pledge and loan within the meaning of this Statute.
57 It is hereby declared as follows-
(a) Notwithstanding the enactment of the Northern Province Pawnbrokers Statute,
No. 06 of 2017, every regulation made under the Pawnbrokers Ordinance (Chapter
99) as in force on the date of commencement of this Statute, in so far as such
regulation is not inconsistent, with the provisions of this Statute shall be deemed
to be made under this Statute, and such regulation may be amended, rescinded
or altered by regulation made under this Statute;
(b) Every licence issued under Section 3 of the Pawnbrokers Ordinance (Chapter
99) within the Northern Province on the day preceding the date of operation of
this Statute, shall, with effect from the date of operation of the Statute be
deemed to be issued under Section 6 of this Statute;
(c)  all security furnished by a pawnbroker under Section 23A of the Pawnbrokers
Ordinance (Chapter 99) within the Northern Province on the day preceding the
date of operation of this Statute, shall, with effect from the date of operation of
the Statute be deemed to be furnished under section 7 of this Statute;
(d)  all actions and proceedings instituted by or against the pawnbroker under the
provisions of the Pawnbrokers  Ordinance (Chapter 99)  within the Northern
Province and pending on the day preceding the date of operation of this Statute
shall, with effect from the date of operation of the Statute, be deemed to be
actions and proceedings instituted by or against the pawnbroker as the case
may be, under the provisions of this Statute and may be continued and completed
accordingly; and
(e) all liabilities of the pawnbroker under the Pawnbrokers Ordinance (Chapter 99)
within the Northern Province on the day preceding the date of operation of this
Statute, shall with effect from the date of operation of the Statute, be deemed to
be liabilities of such pawnbroker.
P ART IX
58 In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires-
“business place” includes a house, store house, shop, company, joint business,
partnership business and place where business activities are carried out and
any of the places where such branches are maintained;
”Chief Secretary” means the Chief Secretary of the Northern Province;
”Foreign Company” means any company or body corporate incorporated outside Sri
Lanka, which has established a place of business within Sri Lanka and continues
to have an established place of business within Sri Lanka;
”Foreign Firm” means a firm -
Savings
Interpretation

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
1 8 A
(i) consisting of two partners, one of whom is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or
both of whom are not Sri Lankans; or
(ii) consisting of more than two partners at least one of whom is not a
citizen of Sri Lanka;
“Pawner” means a person delivering an article for pawn to a pawnbroker;
“Pledge” means an article pawned with a pawnbroker;
“Provincial Commissioner  of the Northern Province ” means the Provincial
Commissioner of Revenue appointed for the purpose of the Finance Statute of
the Northern Province No. 1 of  2014;
“Provincial Council Fund” means the Provincial Fund of the Northern Province
established under Section 19 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987;
“Provincial Deputy Commissioner” means the Deputy Commissioner of
Revenue appointed for the purpose of the Finance Statute of the Northern
Province No. 1 of  2014;
“Minister” means the Minister of the Northern Province to whom the subject of Finance
is assigned;
“person“ includes anybody of persons corporate or unincorporated;
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the Northern Province;
“Sri Lankan Citizen” means any individual who by birth or prevailing law becomes a
citizen of Sri Lanka;”
“unfinished goods” includes any goods of any manufacture or branch of any manufacture,
either mixed or separate or any materials, whatsoever, intended for composing
or manufacture of any goods after such goods or materials are put into a state
of manufacture, and before the same are completed or finished for the purpose
of wearing or consumption.
“Pawnbrokers”:  means a person, an institute, a joint company, a limited company
except a Bank registered under finance Act.
“Board of Review”: -means a board appointed by the Minister to review the appeal in
respect of the issue renewal, cancel and suspension of a license.
“Financial Year”: means period commencing from 1 st of April and ending on 31 st of
March of every year.
“Executor”: means an executor of a deceased person or an administrator and includes;
a) A person:  who is custody of a deceased person’s property or who makes use of
such property.
b) A person: who has made submission to District Court to issue a probate or
letter of administration in respect of the estate of the deceased person.
c) Trustee: Who acts upon a trusteeship of a last will.
59 In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil, Sinhala and English texts of this
Statute, the Tamil text shall prevail.
Tamil Text to
prevail in the
case of
inconsistancy.

<!-- page 19 -->

1 9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
(Section 6)
SCHEDULE -  I
Form - “A”
LICENCE
Number: .........................................................
I, the Commissioner of Revenue of the Northern Province do hereby issue a licence under the provisions of the
Pawnbrokers Statute of the Northern Province, No: 06 of 2017 to carry-out a Pawnbrokers business at the
address
to........................................................................................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
of
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................
The validity of this licence expires on ......................................................
Date: .................................................................... .................................................................
Provincial Commissioner
(Rubber Stamp)
(Section 21)
Form - “B”
PLEDGE    BOOK
Pledge Book of ................................................................... Pawn broker of ..................................................................
No. and date of the issue of pawn
receipts
No. of pledge in the month
Amount of Loan upon each article
Profit of interest charged upon each
article
Name of Pawner
Addresses of Pawner
Name of owner it Pawner is not the
owner
Description of Each Article Pawned
Weight of article or jewellery
V alue of each article Pawned
Date of redemption
Name and address of person redeeming
Rs. Cts Rs. Cts

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
2 0 A
(Section 21)
Form ''C"
SALE   BOOK   OF    PLEDGES
Pledge Book of Pawn broker of
................................................... ........................................................
................................................... .......................................
.................................... .......................................
:
Date and Place of Sale ...................................................
..................................................
.........................................
:
...................................................
...................................................
Name and address of Auctioneer .........................................
(Section 22)
Form - “D”
PAWN RECEIPT
Counter foil No. Original foil No.
(to be retained by pawnbroker) ..................................................Date
......................................................
Date: ...........................................................
(Name and address of pawner) has this day pawned
with the undersigned
Name and address of pawnbroker
.........................................................
............................................................. .............................................................
..............................................................
(Name and addreess of pawnbroker)
I, ............................................................. ............................................................
the undersigned holding National Identity ............................... worth Rs.          for
Card No. Rs.
of (address of Pawner)
...............................................................
...............................................................
.................................................................... signature of Pawnbroker or Servant or
have this day pawned with the aforesaid Agent of pawnbroker.
No. of Pledge
as in pledge
Book
Date of
Pawning
Name of
Pawner
Amount of
Loan
Amount of
interest due
Amount for
which pledge
was sold by
auctioneer
Name and
Address of
Purchaser
Rs. Cts Rs. Cts Rs. Cts

<!-- page 21 -->

2 1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
pawnbroker ...................................... Name ...................................................
.................................................. ......................................................
Worth Rs. ...................................... Signature ..........................................
.......................................... for Rs.
..................................................... (Left thumb impression if unable to sign)
Signature.
(Rubber Stamp)
(Section 26)
Form - “E”
DECLARA TION   WHERE   THE   FOIL   OF   THE   PAWN   RECEIPT   IS   SURRENDERED   UNDER   SECTION   24
WITHOUT   THE   SIGNA TURE   OF   THE   P AWNER   ENDORSED   THEREON
I, ............................................................................... holding National Identity Card No./ Passport No. ......................
of........................................................................................................ (A/B) in pursuance of Pawnbrokers Statute, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that ........................................................... pledge at the shop of ............................................. Pawnbroker, the article/articles
described below and received the foil of a pawn receipts for the same and that for the purpose of redeeming the pledge, I am
unable to surrender the foil of the pawn receipt to the Pawn broker with the signature of the said (Pawner) duly endorsed.
thereon, because the said ..................................... (Pawner) is dead/Under a legal disability to wit ............................................(nature
of legal disability).
Signature of “A” “B” .........................................
The article/ Articles above
referred to is/are .....................................................................................................................................
I, (‘‘C ”, “D”) ............................................... in pursuance of the provisions of the said Statute, do solemnly and sincerely
declare
that I know the person making the foregoing declaration to be (‘‘A ”, “B”) .................................................................... of .............
.................................................................................................................................
Signature of “C ”, “D”.........................................................
Declared before me this .............................. day of  20 .................................................................
............................................................
Justice of Peace.
(Rubber Stamp)

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
2 2 A
 (Section 28)
Form - “F”
DECLARA TION    WHERE    THE    FOIL  OF  THE   P AWN RECEIPT   IS   LOST ETC.
Take, if this Declaration is false the person making the Declaration is punishable.
I, ............................................................................... holding National Identity Card No./ Passport No.
...................... of ....
............................................................... (A/B) in pursuance of the Pawnbrokers Statute, do solemnly and sincerely
Pawnbroker, the
declare that ....................................................... pledge at the shop of ............................................. article/
articles described below and received the foil of a pawn receipts for the same and that for the purp ose of redeeming the
pledge, I am unable to surrender the foil of the pawn receipt to the Pawn broker with the signature of the said (Pawner) duly
endorsed thereon, because the said ....................................(Pawner) is dead/Under a legal
disability to wit
............................................(nature of legal disability).
Signature of “A” “B”
................................
The article/ Articles above
referred to is/are.................................................................................................................................
I, (‘‘C “, “D”) ...............................................in pursuance of the provisions of the said Statute, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that I know the person making the foregoing declaration to be (‘‘A “,
“B”)…....................................................................   of     .........................................................................................................................
Signature of ‘‘C” “D” .........................................................
Declared before me this .............................................................................................................. Day of  20 ……………………
............................................................
Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oath
(Rubber Stamp)
(Section 32)
Form - “G”
RECEIPT
Date  :………
Received on redemption of pledge No.
...................................................................................................................................................
Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.
Amount of Loan ............................. ..............................
Profit or interest ............................. ..............................
Business Turnover Tax ............................. ..............................
....................................................
Pawner’s Signature

<!-- page 23 -->

2 3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
(Section 20)
SCHEDULE - II
Rate of Interest
The rate of interest on every rupee or a fraction of a rupee lent shall be two cents for every month or part thereof.
Payment of Tax
Where a tax under any written Law is payable by the Pawnbroker on a Loan granted upon a pledge, such tax may be recovered
from the pawner.
Restricting recovery of enhanced interest
Where Pawnbroker is entitled to enhanced interest as from any date, such enhanced interest shall not be recoverable, if the
pawner shows to the satisfaction of a Civil Court, having jurisdiction, that he failed to redeem the pledge before such date,
on account of the reason that the pawnbroker’s shop remained closed between 8.00 a. m. and 8.00 p.m. on the day preceding
such date.
If the pledge relating to the pawn receipt is not redeemed within a period of twelve months from the day of pawning it is liable
to be sold by Public auction.
If there be any surplus profit realized at the sale and is not claimed by the pawner within one year from the date of such sale,
the said profit shall be deposited to the credit of the pawner in the Provincial Council Fund.
(Section 32)
SCHEDULE - III
Regulations relating to Auction of Pledges
(1) The auctioneer shall cause all pledges to be exposed to Public view.
(2) The Auctioneer shall publish catalogue of the pledges containing -
(a) The pawn broker’s name and place of the business
(b) The month in which each pledge was pawned.
(c) The number of each pledge as entered in the pledge book at the time of pawning.
(3) The pledges of each Pawnbroker in the catalogue book shall be shown separately from any pledges of a ny other
Pawnbroker.
(4) The Auctioneer shall give notice of the sale by publishing advertisement in at least one each of Sin hala, Tamil and
English Newspapers and notices shall be displayed in places people gather within the area where the sale is to be held.
Such advertisements shall include the following particulars.
(a) the pawnbroker’s name and place of business; and
(b) The month in which the pledges were pawned
(5) The advertisement shall be published on two days in the same newspapers, and the second advertisemen t shall be
published at least ten clear days before the first day of sale.
(6) Whenever a Pawnbroker bids at a sale, the auctioneer shall not take the bidding in any other form, then that in which he
takes the biddings of other persons at the same sale. And when a pawnbroker buys an article the auct ioneer shall
forthwith declare audibly the name of the Pawnbroker as purchasing the said article.
(7) The auctioneer shall within 14 days, deliver to the pawnbroker a copy of the catalogue, relating to the pledges of that
pawnbroker giving the amount for which the pledges of that pawnbroker were sold and authenticated by his signature.
(8) The Pawnbroker shall preserve every such catalogue at lease for two years after the auction.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
2 4 A
Schedule IV
[Section 51]
Form “A”
The Notice served on the pawnbroker on defaulting of the Deposit
Provincial Commissioner Office/
……………………..
Mr/Mrs. …………………………
…………………………
…………………………
Dear Sir/Madam,
Name of the pawn broker: -
Address of the place of business: -
Defaulting of Deposit as Security
Licence No. : ………………………………
It has been found that you have defaulted the payments of deposit in terms of section 50 of the Northern Province
Pawnbrokers Statute, No. 06 of 2017.  The particulars connected thereto are shown in Form 2 annexed hereto.
You are kindly requested to inform me without delay whether this deposit has been already paid. If remittances have
been made, please provide me with receipts, documents or any letter to that effect. If the payments have not been made, I
hereby inform you to pay the full amount as indicated in Form 2 attached hereto, at the Provincial Commissioner’s Office and
inform me within next two weeks or please send me a cheque under registered cover for the full amount as indicated in Form
2, written in favour of the Provincial Commissioner, within 14 days from receipt of this Notice.
If further information of the particulars attached to this Notice are required by you, such informat ion could be
received by written request by you from this office within two weeks from this Notice.
In case there is no written reply for this notice or no response from you to make the payment within next two weeks,
you are hereby informed that legal action will be instituted against you in the Magistrate’s Court o r District Court for the
recovery of the defaulted deposit in terms of the said Statute.
Yours faithfully
Provincial Commissioner
Provincial Commissioner’s Office
………………………                               (Seal)
………………………
Date:
*Delete whichever is inapplicable

<!-- page 25 -->

2 5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'04'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  04.04.2018
Form “B”
Particulars under Subsection (1) of Section 51
1. Name of the defaulting pawnbroker:………………………………………………..
2. Name and address of place of business:………………………………
3. Licence Number:………………………………
4. Total sum has been defaulted:……………………
5. The period of default :…………………..
6. Any payment made:……………………………………………………………………..
7. The balance payment due:……………………………………………………………….
Provincial Commissioner
Office Seal:
Provincial Commissioner
…………………………
…………………………
Date :  ………………………..
Form “C”
Certificate under subsection (3) of section 51
1. Name of the defaulting pawnbroker:……………………………………………………..
2. Name and address of place of business : …………………………………..
3. The period of default of Deposit:……………………….
4. The aggregate of deposit contributions defaulted :………………………..
5. Any  payment  made:……………………………………………………………………….
6. The balance payment due:…………………………………………………………………
Provincial Commissioner
        Seal:
Provincial Commissioner’s Office
………………………………
………………………………
Date : ……………………………..
04 - 664
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.