

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1898$4 - 2015 ckjdß ui 19 jeks i÷od - 2015'01'19
No.1898/4  -MONDAY   JANUARY   19,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
WESTERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Proclamations made by the Hon. Governor
I,  the Governor of the Western Province, S. Alavi Mowlana, by virtue of powers vested in me as per Clause 32 of Provincial
Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 do hereby announce that the Western Provincial Council Public Service Procedural Rules
formulated to allocate provisions for appointments, promotions and transfers and matters consequential to such in the
Western Provincial Council Public Service and described in the following Schedule shall be implemented for the Western
Provincial Council Public Service with effect from February 01st, 2015.
It is hereby notified further that this Procedural Rules shall be implemented without any detrimental effect to any of
the measure taken under a provisional allocation of a circular issued to amend any provision of the Establishment Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka or any chapter therein that has been put into operation on behalf of the Western
Province Public Service by the date these rules come into effect.
S. Alavi Mowlana,
  Governor of the Western Province.
Governor's Secretariat of Western Province,
No. 98/4, Havelock Road,
Colombo 05.
16th  January  2015.
CHAPTER   I
Procedural rules of the Western Provincial Public Service
Establishment
1.  Governor
The Provincial Councils are established in terms of Article 154(a) of the Chapter XVII (A) of the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. In terms of 154(B) of the said Article, the post of Governor is established
8—PG 2329

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
2A
for each province and the Governor is appointed by the President by warrant under his hand. These Procedural
Rules are imposed in terms of the powers provided for under Section 32 of Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
2. Powers
In terms of the provisions of Section 32 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 amended by the Provincial
Councils Act, No. 28 of 1990, the appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of officers of
the Western Provincial Public Service is vested in the Governor of the Western Province subject to the provisions
of the act.
3. The Western Provincial Public Service Commission is established in terms of the provisions of Section 33 of the
Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
4. The powers vested in the Governor of the Western Province in terms of Section 32(1) of the Provincial Councils Act,
No. 42 of 1987, may be delegated from time to time to the Western Provincial Public Service Commission established
as mentioned in Section 3 above, subject to Sections 32(2) and 32(3) of the said act.
5. Where there is a difficulty in the interpretation of these rules or the application, or there arises any contradiction
between the interpretation and the desired objective of their application or on matters not provided for in these
procedural rules, the Governor of the Western Province reserves himself the right of final determination.
6. The Governor of the Western Province shall have power to alter, reduce and rescind an appointment, order of
transfer or dismissal or any other order on a disciplinary matter made by the Western Provincial Public Service
Commission in terms of Section 33(8) of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and an appointment, order of
transfer or dismissal or any other order on a disciplinary matter made by an authority on whom powers have been
delegated subject to Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of  1990 mentioned above.
Accountability
7. The relevant authorities shall be responsible and answerable to the Governor of the Western Province on the
decisions made by the Western Provincial Public Service Commission in the exercise of powers delegated to the
Western Provincial Public Service Commission by the Governor of the Western Province in accordance with the
provisions of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and on the decisions made by an authority on whom
powers have been delegated by the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990.
CHAPTER   II
Exercise of Delegated Powers
8. (a)  In terms of Sections 32(1) and 32(3) of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and subject to any other law,
the Governor may, from time to time delegate to the Provincial Public Service Commission of this province the
powers of appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of officers of the Western
Provincial Public Service.
(b) In terms of Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, the powers vested in the
Provincial Service Commission may be delegated to the Provincial Chief Secretary or a particular officer.
9. Even when the powers vested in the Governor have been delegated by the Western Provincial Public Service
Commission or an officer on whom such powers have been delegated by the Provincial Public Service Commission,
the Governor of the  Western Province shall have power to alter, reduce or rescind an appointment, order of transfer
or dismissal or any other order on a disciplinary matter made by the Western Provincial Public Service Commission
or the relevant officer on whom the powers have been delegated by the Provincial Public Service Commission.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
10. Any acts or decisions made by any person in excess of the limit of powers vested in the Western Province Public
Service Commission or the limit of powers delegated to an officer subject to Section 4 of the Provincial Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990 shall be null and void. The officer or officers who authorized or facilitate such
action shall be personally responsible for any harm or loss caused by such acts or decisions.
11. (a) In terms of Section 32 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987, the powers delegated to the Western
Provincial Public Service Commission by the Governor of the Western Province shall be exercised within the
scope/limit of such delegation. Any acts or decisions made in excess of the limit of delegation shall be null and
void. The Western Provincial Public Service Commission is personally liable for any harm or loss caused by
such act or decisions.
(b) In terms of Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, the powers delegated to the
Provincial Chief Secretary or any officer by the Western Provincial Public Service Commission shall be
exercised within the scope/limit of such delegation. Any acts or decisions made in excess of the limit of
delegation shall be null and void. The Provincial Chief Secretary or the relevant officer shall be personally
responsible for any harm or loss caused by such acts or decisions.
12. Where powers have been delegated to the Western Provincial Public Service Commission, such powers shall be
exercised only by the Western Provincial Public Service Commission, and no action shall be taken presuming that
powers have been delegated separately to the members of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission. The
Provincial Public Service Commission with delegated powers shall exercise such powers in accordance with the
Constitutional Provisions, Provisions set out in the Provincial Councils Act, Provincial Council enactments and
legal provisions imposed from time to time by the Governor of the Western Province, impartially, equitably, and in
good faith and in a transparent manner.
13. Where powers have been delegated to a relevant officer in terms of the provisions set out in Section 4 of the
Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, the officer with delegated power shall exercise such powers
in accordance with the Constitutional provisions, provisions set out in the Provincial Council Act, Provincial
Council enactments and legal and administrative provisions imposed from time to time by the Governor of the
Western Province, impartially, equitably, and in good faith and in a transparent manner.
14. Where any problem arises in the exercise of powers delegated to the Western Provincial Public Service Commission,
clarifications and instructions shall be obtained from the Governor of the Western Province, and where any problem
arises regarding the exercise of powers delegated to an officer in terms of the provisions in Section 4 of the
Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, clarifications or instructions shall be obtained, as the case
may be, from the Western Provincial Public Service Commission or the Governor of the Western Province.
15 . In terms of Section 34 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987, any person who, otherwise than in the course
of such person's lawful duty, directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever influences or attempts to influence or
interfere with any decision of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission or a member thereof, shall be guilty
of an offence and on conviction at a case heard in a high court without the Jury, such person shall be liable to a fine
not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
CHAPTER   III
Appointment
16. In terms of Section 32 of  the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987, the powers of appointment, promotion, transfer,
dismissal and disciplinary control of officers of the Western Provincial Public Service are vested in the Governor of
the Western Province.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
4A
17. The Powers  vested in the Governor in terms of Sections 32(1) and 32(3) of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987
may be delegated to the Western Provincial Public Service Commission or to the relevant officers in terms of Section
32(2) of the Provincial Councils Act,  No. 42 of 1987.
18. In terms of Sections 33(8) of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987, the Governor has power to alter, reduce or
rescind and order of appointment, promotion, transfer or dismissal, or any other disciplinary order made by the
Provincial Public Service Commission on which powers have been delegated in terms of Section 32(2) or 32(3) of the
Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 or by an Authority on whom powers have been delegated as per the
provisions in Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990.
19. To fill all vacancies in the Provincial Public Service the Appointment Authority shall call for applications by
advertisement in accordance with the Service Minute and/or Scheme of Recruitment approved by the Governor
except where the appointment in made on acting basis, to attend to the duties or to cover duties.
20. An appointment on contract basis or to attend to the duties of a post or on acting basis or on a permanent basis shall
be made only if the post falls within the approved cadre of the relevant institution, has an approved Service Minute
or Scheme of Recruitment and for which funds have been provided.
21. An appointment can be made only if a vacancy in the approved cadre occurs. A vacancy occurs only if an new post
is created or the services of the holder of a post terminates or is terminated. No vacancy occurs if the holder of a post
is on full-pay or no pay leave  has been temporarily released for other duties or under interdiction or is on leave
preparatory to retirement. Provided, however, the Appointing Authority may make an appointment to attend to the
duties of a post or to act in a post for reasons of exigencies of service.
22. All appointments in the Provincial Public Service, other than casual and substitute appointment shall be made in
accordance with the approved Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment of the respective post.
23. The date of the letter of appointment or the date on which the officer assumes duties, whichever comes later, shall
be the effective date of the appointment.
24. No appointment, for whatever reason, shall be ante-dated.
25. No person shall be appointed to a post in the Western Provincial Public Service or employed under any designation
on honorary or voluntary capacity.
26.  In pursuance of the current provisions for appointment and transfer etc., the Western Provincial Public Service
Commission has the power of grading and designating posts in the provincial public service, lay down conditions
of service and determine scales of salary or wages within the salary structure.
CHAPTER   IV
Service Minutes and Schemes of Recruitment
27. For each approved service in the provincial public service, there shall be a Service Minute and for each post falling
outside those services, there shall be a Scheme of Recruitment. Such Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment shall
contain qualifications for recruitment, method of recruitment, salary scale, service conditions, methods  of promotion
and all other relevant information.
28. Draft Schemes of Recruitment shall be prepared in accordance with the standard format. Draft Schemes of Recruitment
and Service Minutes shall be submitted to the Provincial Chief Secretary by the Secretary to the relevant provincial
ministry and then to the Provincial Public Service Commission with the recommendations of the Chief Secretary.
Such draft shall be forwarded along with a schedule of proposed amendments. The Provincial Public Service
Commission shall consider the Draft with recommendations of the Chief Secretary forwarded to it and submit the

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
same to the Governor along with its recommendation. The said Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment shall come into
force with effect from the date of approval of the  relevant Draft by the Governor.
29. Where need arises to amend the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment, the schedule referred to above shall
include the reasons for such amendment, matters to be amended, and relevant paragraphs and texts etc. Further, the
draft of the amended Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment shall be prepared by incorporating the proposed
amendments and highlighting them by underlining.
30. The Governor shall have the power to approve or return for revisions or reject or revoke a Scheme of Recruitment or
Service Minute or the proposed amendments submitted by the Provincial Public Service Commission or the Chief
Secretary, Similarly, the Governor shall have the power to order the relevant authorities to create a Service Minute or
Scheme of Recruitment for a particular post or service in the provincial public service or to amend any approved
Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment, in consultation with the relevant authorities or under his directive.
CHAPTER   V
Persons not qualified for appointment to the Provincial Public Service
31. A person who has been in the provincial public service of another province or in the public service or in a public
corporation or authority or government owned company and has been compulsorily retired for general inefficiency
or retired as a merciful alternative to dismiss or retired as a punishment or who has been dismissed after a formal
inquiry or who has vacated his post is disqualified for appointment to the Western Provincial Public Service.
32. A person convicted by a court of law for a criminal offence committed against the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka is disqualified to be appointed to the provincial public service.
33. Any person convicted by a court of law in any criminal proceedings or convicted by a court of law after summary
inquiry in terms of Section 449 of the Criminal Procedure Code is disqualified for appointment to the provincial
public service.
34. Any person who had been declared as bankrupt is disqualified to be appointed to the provincial public service.
35. A person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or who does not have citizenship rights is disqualified for appointment to
the provincial public service.
CHAPTER   VI
Terms of Conditions Governing Appointments
36. All officers of the provincial public service shall hold posts on public trust. Every person who is appointed to a post
in the provincial public service shall diligently discharge the duties of the post to which he is appointed for the
benefit of the country and its people.
37. Every officer in the provincial public service shall discharge his duties, responsibilities and obligations in accordance
with Government policy, rules and regulations enacted from time to time by the Governor and the Provincial Public
Service Commission in respect of the Provincial Public Service, Further, he shall be subject to the Establishment
Code, Financial Regulations, Provincial Financial Rules, provisions in the Provincial Councils Act, other Government
Regulations applicable to Provincial Public Service, Circulars, Instructions, provisions in these Procedural Rules
and amendment made thereto from time to time.
38. Every person who is appointed to a permanent and pensionable post in the provincial public service shall contribute
to the Widows' and Orphans' Pension Scheme or to the Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme as the case may
be. The amount of contribution shall be as declared by the government from time to time.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
6A
39. Any officer of  the Provincial Public Service shall furnish a security deposit as per the Public Officers' Security
Ordinance, in such sum as decided upon by the Head of Department.
40. An officer appointed to the Provincial Public Service is bound to service in any part of the Western Province.
41. Every officer appointed on permanent or contract basis to a post in the provincial public service shall be certified by
a medical examination that he is physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Western Province.
42. This medical examination shall be held in a government hospital in such manner as decided upon by the Director
General of Health Services.
43. Every person appointed to a post in the provincial public service, shall make and subscribe or take and subscribe
the affirmation or the oath in terms of Schedule 4 and 7 of the Constitution.
44. Every officer appointed to a post in the provincial service shall acquire proficiency in Sinhala, Tamil and English in
such manner as stipulated by Government Policy.
45. An officer of the provincial public service who receives monthly salary and who wishes to resign his post must,
unless otherwise stated in his letter of appointment, give at least one calendar month's notice in writing to the
Appointing Authority in accordance with these rules. If the Appointing Authority agrees he may pay a sum
equivalent to a month's salary to the provincial council in view of one month calender notice and resign his post.
However, a resignation of an officer of the provincial public service will come into effect only after the written
intimation of the acceptance of the resignation by the Appointing Authority.
46. The Appointing Authority may terminate the appointment of a casual officer and substitute without notice.
47. When the Appointing Authority intends to terminate, in accordance with the conditions given in the letter of
appointment, the appointment of a monthly paid officer who is not confirmed in the provincial public service, he
must be given a  month's notice.
48. Where it is duly established at any time whatever after the assumption of duties that an officer has been appointed
to a post in the provincial public service on false and erroneous information or documents submitted by that officer
to the Appointing Authority or any other relevant Authority such appointment shall forthwith be treated as null and
void and the appointment revoked, subject to such officer is given due notice of the allegation and an opportunity
to explain. If it is established that the appointment has been received on false and erroneous documents, action shall
be taken in terms of the provisions in the Penal Code in this connection.
CHAPTER   VII
Procedure relating to Appointments
49. In case of appointment of an officer belonging to the All Island Services to a post in the provincial council,
appointments shall be made by the Governor subject to the powers reserved to himself, as it deems fit.
50. Appointments and transfers within the grades are done by the Western Province Public Service Commission in
terms of the relevant Schemes of Recruitment and Services Minutes, subject to the delegation of power by the
Governor.
51. Appointment/selection and transfer of officers shall be done by the Appointing Authorities in terms of the Service
Minutes and Schemes of Recruitment, subject to the powers delegated and to be delegated in future by the
Governor.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
52. Where a vacancy occurs in a post in the provincial public service or where such a post is crated anew, the Heads of
Department shall report such fact to the Appointing Authority of relevant service or post. Also, he shall forthwith
mention whether or not he recommends the appointment of an officer of the provincial public service to that post.
53. On receipts of document in terms of Section 52, the Appointing Authority having satisfied himself that the relevant
examinations and interviews have been held in accordance with the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment,
where relevant in accordance with the approved marking scheme and having considered the recommendation of the
interview board, if there are any, shall select a person/persons on the order of merit of marks obtained at the
examination and/or interview, in compliance with the provisions of the Scheme of Recruitment. A formal letter of
appointment shall be issued by the Appointing Authority as per Appendix 01 or 02 (a) with changes where necessary.
54. When appointing the officers belonging to the All Island Services to the posts in the provincial public service,
those officers shall be issued a formal letter of appointment by the relevant Authorities.
General Conditions relating to Appointment
55. The Appointing Authority shall make appointments in accordance with the provisions of the Service Minutes or the
Schemes of Recruitment.
56. Unless otherwise provided for in the Scheme of Recruitment, a board of interview shall have at least three members
including the Chairperson who shall be an officer of the provincial public service. However the maximum number of
members in a board of interview shall be limited to five. Unless otherwise provided for in the Service Minute or the
Scheme of Recruitment, a least one member of the board of interview shall be from a Ministry or Department which
is outside the Ministry or Department where the vacancy occurs. Similarly at least one female officer shall be
appointed to a board of interview whenever possible. Nevertheless, a public officer or an officer of the provincial
public service of another province may be appointed as a member of the board of interview where necessary.
57. Unless otherwise provided for in the Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment the number of applicants to be called
for the interview where applicable shall be determined by the Appointing Authority in order of the marks obtained
by them at the written examination and/or the trade test, as the case may be, and the number of vacancies.
58. Where marks are allocated at the interview the Marking Scheme shall be included in the advertisement calling for
applications to fill the vacancies.
59. Where selections are made only through an interview, or an interview and a trade test such interview shall be
structured and the Marking Schemes of the interview and the trade test shall be included in the advertisement
calling for applications for the post.
60. The board of interview shall be provided with the following documents to carry out its functions.
(i) Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment.
(ii) Advertisement calling for applications.
(iii) Schedule of interview with Summary of Qualifications.
(iv) Number called for the interview.
(v) It is a structured interview, the Marking Scheme approved by the Appointing Authority and other relevant
documents.
61. Every applicant shall be interviewed by a plenary session of the board of interview. In recording marks at the
interview, a carbon pen or a pen with indelible ink shall be used and not pencils. Every member of the interview board
shall be present at all times during the interview.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
8A
62. Immediately after the interview is over, the board of interview shall prepare a merit list in order of the marks obtained
by the applicants ; include it in the schedules of interview, and certified. Members of the board of interview shall
sign each page of such schedules.
63. Where an interview has to be held to allocate marks after a written examination and/or a trade list, marks obtained by
the  applicants at the written examination and/or the trade test shall not be made available to the board of interview.
The results of a written examination and/or the trade test shall not be publicized for whatever reason until the
Appointing Authority takes a final decision regarding the appointments. Its confidentiality shall be preserved to the
utmost.
64. Where the interview is not structured it should be held only for the purpose of verifying the certificates of the
applicants for confirmation of their qualifications.
65. The Appointing Authority shall take action to draw the attention of the members of the respective boards of
interview to these rules before an interview or trade test is held.
66. Where appointments are made on the order of merit and where there are several applicants who had obtained equal
marks for the last vacancy or vacancies, the final decision to fill the vacancy or vacancies on the results of the
interview, the written test or the professional, test as the case may be rests with the Appointing Authority.
67. Where recruitment is done only on the results of a competitive examination, appointments shall be made in order of
merit of the marks obtained by the applicant at the competitive examination.
68. Where appointments are to be made on the results of written test, interview and trade test the Appointing Authority
shall aggregate the marks obtained by each of the applicants at the written test, the interview and the trade test and
make appointments in order of  merits.
Procedure to be followed after appointment
69. A person who had received a letter of appointment issued by the Appointing Authority appointing him to a
particular post in the provincial public service shall forthwith inform the Appointing Authority in writing as per
Appendix 03 whether or not he accepts the post subject to the conditions mentioned in the letter of appointment.
70. It shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of the Department of
Head of the Institution to ascertain the identity of the person who accepts the appointment in accordance with the
letter of appointment.
71. The appointee within one month of his appointment shall made the affirmation or take the oath on the form set out
in Schedules 04 and 07 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka before, as the case may
be, the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of Department or Head of Institution. It shall be
the responsibility of such authorities to make arrangements for the appointee to make the affirmation or take the
oath. The appointment of a person, who fails to make affirmation or take oaths, during the stipulated period, shall
cease at the expiry of such period, provided that the delay is attributable to the appointee.
72. The appointee to the provincial public service, on the first day itself of assuming duties shall hand over a letter as
per Appendix 04 confirming that he reported for service to, as the case may be, the Appointing Authority or the
Administrative Authority or the Head of Department or Head of Institution.
73. The appointee to the provincial public service, on assuming duties shall hand over the following documents to, as
the case may be, the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of Department or Head of Institution.
(i) Certified copy of the National Identity Card ;
(ii) Birth Certificate ;

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
(iii) Original and a set of photo copies confirming basic educational qualifications, any other academic and
professional qualifications (After verifying the photo copies with the originals the relevant authority shall
certify and sign that the photo copies are those of the originals and the officer shall certify and sing that those
photo copies are copies of  genuine certificates. The photo copies shall then be retained by the authority and
the originals returned to the officer)
(iv) Marriage Certificate, if married, Birth Certificate of spouse, copies of Birth Certificate of Children, if any
(v) Service Agreement on Form General 160
(vi) Declaration of Assets on Form General 261
(vii) Declaration of Assets & Liabilities in terms of the Declaration of Assets & Liabilities Act, No 01 of 1975 of the
National State Assembly, amended by Act,  No  77 of 1988
(viii) Address, telephone number and e-mail address (if available) of permanent and temporary residence.
74. After an appointee reports for duty, the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of Department
or Head of Institution, as the case may be, shall take action to open up a personal file for the officer containing the
documents referred to at Section 73 above and the documents referred to below in this Section and maintain it up to
date.
(i) Copy of the Letter of Appointment.
(ii) Oath taken by the relevant officers in terms of Schedule 4 and 7 of the Constitution
(iii) The letter confirming that the relevant officer has assumed duties in the relevant post.
(iv) History Sheet.
(v) Copy of declaration ·under the Widows’ & Orphans’ Pension Scheme or the Widowers’ & Orphans’
Pension Scheme, as applicable.
(vi) Certified copy of the certificate of furnishing security, if required on the nature of the appointment.
(vii) Medical Report on Form Health 169.
75. Once the officer has reported for duty the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of Department
or Head of Institution shall attach the officer to a unit or branch in his office, or another office or station under him.
Similarly, the Head of the particular office shall without delay hand over the duty list to the officer in writing.
76. Once an officer of the provincial public service has reported for service the relevant  Authority shall inform the
Auditor General that the officer has assumed duties.
77. Where the publication of the appointment of an officer to a particular service or post in the provincial public service
in the government Gazette is a legal requirement, it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to take
prompt action to publish such appointment in the government Gazette.
78. Once an officer of the provincial public service has been assigned duties, the Appointing Authority or Administrative
Authority or Head of Department or Head of Institution shall provide him with training before a year of the date of
appointment or based on the need so that his services could be obtained more productively and efficiently. Where
training is mentioned in any Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment, the training shall be conducted in such
manner as to  meet the requirements mentioned therein. It shall also be the responsibility of the officer to duly
participate in such training programmes.
79. The Medical Report to be furnished by a new entrant to the provincial public service shall be obtained from a
District Medical Officer of a government hospital and shall be forwarded to the Appointing Authority/Administrative
Authority  Head of Institution within 03 months of the appointment. It shall also be the responsibility of the relevant
Authority to obtain this Medical Report within the stipulated period.
80. Where an officer had been declared physically or mentally unfit for provincial public service after a medical
examination, the Administrative Authority  Head of Institution shall report such fact to the Appointing Authority of
the officer concerned without any delay as soon as the report indicating such fact is received from the Director
General of Health Services. Accordingly, the Appointing Authority shall take action to terminate the appointment of
such officer.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
10A
Concession   to   Ex-Servicemen
81. Ex-servicemen of the Army, Navy and Air Force, who are not over 50 years of age,  seeking appointment in the
provincial public service shall be given the following concessions:
i. Age Limit
If an ex-serviceman falls within the maximum age limit of a post to which he seeks appointment after the period of his
service in an armed service is subtracted from his age he shall be treated as falling within the prescribed age limit.
ii. Educational Qualifications
If he has obtained the next lower educational level of the minimum educational qualifications prescribed in the
relevant Service Minute/Scheme of Recruitment for the post, other than a post for which a degree from a recognized
university has been prescribed as educational qualifications, he shall be treated as having the prescribed educational
qualifications.
iii. Technical and Professional Qualifications
An ex-serviceman who has gained skills and experience working in relevant technical units of armed services shall
be treated as having the required technical and professional qualifications.
CHAPTER    VIII
Period of Probation, Period of Acting and Confirmation of Appointment
82. The Appointing Authority shall subject every officer appointed to a permanent post in the provincial public
service to a probation period of three years.
83. An officer holding a permanent post in the provincial public service when appointed to another permanent post in
the provincial public service shall be subject to an acting period of one year.
84. An officer of the provincial public service appointed subject to a period of probation or acting shall prove his
suitability for provincial public service by diligently fulfilling during such period the obligations and responsibilities
imposed on him by his letter of appointment, good conduct and efficient service.
85. Where during his period of probation, he shows any tendencies which render doubtful his suitability for permanent
retention, he should at once be warned and given such assistance as may be possible to correct his failings by the
Administrative Authority. Any admonition administered for any serious act or omission or any fault of conduct or
character which, if persisted in, may prevent his confirmation, should be communicated to him in writing and
acknowledgment obtained. Such acknowledgment shall be conclusive proof of the fact that the officer was warned
of his failings and given an opportunity for improvement.
86.  It shall be the duty of the Appointing Authority to terminate the services of an officer on probation where the
relevant Administrative Authority reports that specific instances of misconduct cannot be urged against the officers
but whose temperament, behavioural pattern and other defects render him unsuitable for further retention in the
provincial public service. In such an .instance, the Appointing Authority shall ensure that all reasons which led to
such a decision are recorded in detail in the relevant file and all factors that support his decision are kept secured.
The letter of termination shall be as per Appendix 6 with changes where necessary.
87. The Head of the Department shall prepare at the end of first and second year of probation a Review Report as per
Appendix 05. On receipt of each of the report it should be carefully considered and where necessary he should be
warned of any short comings. The final Review Report together with first and second year report should be
submitted to the Appointing Authority at· least 3 months prior to the expiry of the probationary period. Before the

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
expiry of the period of probation all three reports should be taken into consideration by the Appointing Authority
and an order be made either confirming or extending the period of probation. The officer concerned , should be
informed of the decision in each case.
88. Where an inquiry into an irregularity committed by an officer on probation cannot be completed before the expiry of
the period of probation, his probationary appointment should be terminated or the period of probation extended
taking into consideration the circumstances of the case.
89. If the Appointing Authority decides that the officer be given some time to improve his shortcomings his period of
probation may be extended by one year at a time subject to a maximum period of three years and defer the officer’s
increment.
90. At the end of each extended period of probation the Administrative Authority shall prepare a Review Report as per
Appendix 05. Where such report reveals deficiencies that may prevent his suitability for confirmation in his post, it
shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to extend the period of probation or terminate the appointment
of the officer subject to Section 87 and 89 above. In such an instance, the relevant Authority shall ensure that all
reasons which led to such a decision are recorded in detail in the relevant file and all factors that support his
decision are kept secured.
91. Where an officer confirmed in a permanent post in the provincial public service is appointed to another permanent
post in the provincial public service subject to an acting period of one year, the Administrative Authority shall
prepare a Review Report as per Appendix 05.
92. Where such Review Report reveals any deficiencies that might prevent the above officer’s suitability for confirmation
in his post such fact must be forthwith communicated to the officer in writing  and timely guidance given by the
immediate Administrative Head, and the Appointing Authority shall defer the officer’s increment and extend his
period of acting by one year at a time subject to a maximum period of three years.
93. Where at the end of the each extended period the officer shows no progress in accordance  with the Review Reports
prepared by the Administrative Authority as per Appendix 05, it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing
Authority to extend the period of probation or terminate the appointment of the officer subject to the above section
and in the event of termination of appointment revert him to his former post, in the event such post is no longer
vacant appoint on supernumerary basis. In such an instance, the Appointing Authority shall ensure that all reasons
which led to such a decision are recorded in detail in the relevant file and all factors that support  his decision are
kept secured. Letter of termination shall be as per Appendix 7.
94. The Appointing Authority or an authority on whom powers have been duly delegated shall ensure that an officer on
probation or acting, as the case may be, is confirmed on completion of the period of probation or acting or his period
of probation or acting is extended or his appointment is terminated. If his period of probation had been extended on
grounds that were within his control, his salary increment shall invariably be deferred until he is confirmed in his
post. All such decisions, whatever, shall be communicated to the officer in writing by the appointing Authority.
95. Where all requirements have been fulfilled on the due date, the confirmation of an officer of the provincial public
service in a permanent post will become effective only after the  appointing Authority issues a formal letter conveying
such fact. Until such a letter has been issued the officer of the provincial public service shall be deemed as not
having been confirmed in his appointment. In order to avoid any hardship that may be caused to the officer by the
delay in issuing a letter even after the fulfillment of all requirements, the relevant Appointing Authority shall be
mindful of the fact that such letters should be issued duly and without delay. In fulfilling this task, it shall be the
responsibility of the immediate Administrative Authority to duly submit all the relevant documents to the Appointing
Authority.
96. Where an officer of the provincial public service had been unable to obtain qualifications  during the prescribed
period for confirmation in his appointment owing to reasons beyond his control, the Appointing Authority may

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
12A
extend his probation by a reasonable period of time. It shall be the duty of the officer to obtain the required
qualifications for confirmation in his appointment during the extended length of time. In such an instance, the officer
shall be confirmed in his appointment in such manner that it will have no adverse effect on his seniority and salary
increments. Provided, however, that the Appointing Authority shall terminate his appointment if the officer fails to
obtain the required qualifications during the extended period of probation owing to his negligence or inattention.
97 Where an officer of the provincial public service fails to qualify for confirmation at the proper time, that is within the
initial period of probation or acting period, for reasons within his control, but qualifies for confirmation during an
extension of the period of probation or acting granted to him, the salary increment falling due after the expiry of the
initial period of probation will be deferred by the length of time taken in excess of the initial period allowed to qualify,
he shall be confirmed in his appointment with effect from the date of his appointment and seniority in his grade or
service will be determined by the date on which he qualified for confirmation.
98. The confirmation of an officer on probation or acting in a permanent appointment in the provincial public service
shall become effective from the date of his appointment to the post. However, he shall have no claim whatsoever for
salary increments deferred owing to his deficiencies.
CHAPTER  IX
Appointment to act in a post or attend to the duties of a post
99. An officer of the provincial public service may be appointed to act in a particular post  only under the following
circumstances:-
i. To bear the responsibilities and perform the work of a particular post in an approved cadre of a ministry,
department or institution under- the purview of the provincial council the substantive holder of which is away
from work for a particular length of time with due approval, or;
ii. To bear the responsibilities and perform the work of a particular vacant post in an approved cadre of a ministry,
department or institution under the purview of the provincial council until such time the Appointing Authority
makes a permanent appointment to fill the vacancy.
100. The authority for making an appointment to act in a post or to attend to the duties of a post lies solely with the
Appointing Authority duly delegated for making appointments to the relevant post.
101. Only an officer of the provincial public service who is confirmed in his substantive post  serving  in a Comparable
Post or a post immediately below it and has fulfilled all the qualifications stipulated in the approved Service Minute
or ,the Scheme of Recruitment of the  relevant post can be appointed to act.
102. An acting appointment is made for the performance of, as the case may be, the work of a post on full-time basis
or in addition to the work of a post the relevant officer already holds.
103. An officer holding an acting appointment shall have no claim for the salary scale of the post on a permanent
basis by virtue of the fact that he did act in the post.
104. Where no officer of the provincial public service qualified for appointment in terms of Section 101 above to act in a
vacant post in an approved cadre is available the most suitable officer of the provincial public service may be
appointed to attend to the duties of the post by the Appointing Authority duly authorized in this regard.
105. Any allowance and privilege attached to a particular post may be enjoyed by an officer of the provincial public
service acting or attending to the duties in such post during the period of acting or the period of attending to the
duties of the post. He shall have no claim for such allowance or privilege when the acting appointment or period of
attending to the duties is terminated.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
106. An officer in the provincial public service can be appointed to act in a particular post or attend to the duties of a
particular post only if that post is either a Superior post or Comparable Post to the post presently held by that officer.
107. Where selection is made for appointment to a post no officer of the provincial public service shall be afforded
special entitlement, special advantage under Service Minute/Scheme of Recruitment or additional marks solely on
the basis of his having acted or attended duties in that particular post. Other than an officer has been appointed to
act in a post or attend to the duties of a post by the Appointing Authority, such officer is not entitled to an additional
remuneration. Where an officer covers the duties of a post under a departmental cause of action for covering duties
in a vacant post, such officer is not entitled to an additional remuneration.
CHAPTER    X
Efficiency Bar
108.  Efficiency Bar/Bars shall be conducted, as it deems fit, for all officers recruited to the provincial public service. Such
fact shall be mentioned in the appointment letter other than in the Service Minutes and Schemes of Recruitments for
recruitment of the respective officers.
109. An officer of the provincial public service shall fulfill the requirements of the Efficiency Bar/Bars for confirmation of
the appointment or promotion to a higher post or grade in the  respective service or to pass over a specific salary
step. .
110. Efficiency Bar examinations shall be conducted within appropriate time limits, as  prescribed by the designated
authority in accordance with the Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment. In the event that the Service Minute or
Scheme of Recruitment does not specify the .authority who should conduct the Efficiency Bar examinations, then
the said Efficiency Bar examinations shall be conducted by the Appointing Authority or officer designated by the
appointing Authority.
111. Where an officer of the provincial public service has acquired the necessary qualifications to pass over the Efficiency
Bar, the Appointing Authority shall issue to such officer without delay  a letter as per Appendix 08 that he has
passed the Efficiency Bar. Further, a photo copy of that letter shall be attached to the relevant form required for the
approval of the next salary increment of such officer by the appropriate Authority.
I 12. Where an officer of the provincial public service fails to pass an Efficiency Bar on the due date, the Administrative
Authority or the Appointing Authority, as the case may be, shall defer the increment of such officer with effect from
that date and formally inform the officer of such fact.
I 13. The Appointing Authority may allow an officer who has failed to pass the Efficiency Bar on the due date one year
extension at a time subject to a maximum period of three times to qualify himself. This relief can only be given in the
event that the relevant Authority fails to conduct  -.efficiency Bar Examinations or Tests.
I 14. Where an officer of the provincial public service whose salary increment has been deferred in terms of Section 112
above fails to qualify himself to pass the Efficiency Bar within a period of three occasions from the date of deferment
of his salary increment, his service shall stand terminated on grounds of inefficiency with effect from the last day of
finishing the three occasions.
115. Provided, however, that if the officer of the provincial public service has been confirmed in his service and the
officer has acquired pensionable status by that time he shall be retired on  grounds of inefficiency with effect from
the said date. In such a situation the officer shall draw his pension when he reaches the optional age of retirement
and in accordance with the Minute on Pension.
116. Where the service of an officer of the provincial public service stands terminated in terms of Section 114 above,
the Appointing Authority shall issue a letter as per appendix 09.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
14A
CHAPTER XI
Seniority
117, The seniority of officers of the provincial public service holding posts of equal status in a class or grade of a
particular service or in a ministry, department or institution belonging to the  provincial public service shall be
determined based on the dates on which those officers assumed  duties in the respective posts.
118. Where more than one officer of the provincial public service had assumed duties on a particular day their seniority
shall be determined in the order of cumulative total of marks  obtained by them at the written and trade tests and
interviews held for recruitment, in accordance with the Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment. Where there are
officers who had obtained  equal   marks, all of them shall be treated as having the same seniority.
119. Where the period of probation or acting of an officer of the provincial public service has been extended owing to
unsatisfactory work, conduct and attendance, his seniority in class/grade shall be readjusted by subtracting a
period of time equal to the period of time extended.
120. Where an officer of the provincial public service has failed to pass the Efficiency Bar examination on the due date
despite the fact that circumstances were within his control, his seniority shall be readjusted by subtracting the
additional period of time taken by the officer to pass the Efficiency Bar.
121. Where a specific disciplinary order to reduce the seniority or any other disciplinary order that will affect seniority of
an officer has been made by the Disciplinary Authority the seniority of the officer shall be readjusted in terms of the
respective disciplinary order.
122. Where an officer of the provincial public service has been temporarily released from the provincial public service on
his request for a post in a university or a government corporation or Authority or a government project or a company
owned by the government or of which the government holds shares, or in some other institution as agreed upon by
the Provincial Public Service Commission, such period shall not be considered as part of his period of service for the
purpose of deciding his seniority.
123. Where an officer of the provincial public service has availed no-pay leave on his request for a job outside the
provincial public service such period shall not be considered as part of his  period of service for the purpose of
deciding his seniority.
124. Where an officer of the provincial public service appointed to another post reverts or reverted to his former post,
during the acting period, for reasons other than disciplinary, his period of service in that post shall be treated as part
of the service in deciding his seniority in hin former post.
125. The manner in which the seniority of an officer absorbed from one service to another is to be determined shall be
stated lucidly and clearly in the decision taken for his absorption.
126. The manner in which the seniority of the relevant officer is to be determined when two or more services are
amalgamated shall be stated lucidly and clearly in the decision taken for such amalgamation.
127. The manner in which the seniority of the relevant officer is to be determined when posts  of equal status in the same
institution or various institutions are amalgamated shall be stated  lucidly and clearly in the decision taken for such
amalgamation.
128. Where the Supreme Court has made an order, relating to the seniority of an officer of the provincial public service his
seniority shall be determined in accordance with that order. Also, in the event that an officer of a particular service
who has been released from a provincial public service of another province takes up a post in this provincial public
service, the seniority of such  officer shall be placed at the end of the existing seniority list for the relevant Class or
Grade  pertaining to the relevant service in this provincial public service.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
129. Where an officer of the provincial public service on whom a vacation of post notice has been issued by the
respective authority deeming him to have vacated his post is reinstated after considering his explanation or an
appeal submitted by him, his seniority shall be determined in terms of the conditions stated in the decision for
reinstatement.
CHAPTER XII
Release of an Officer of the Provincial Public Service temporarily  or permanently from the Provincial Public Service
130. The instances an officer of the provincial public service who is confirmed in his post may he released by the
Appointing Authority on the request of the officer or on the need of the relevant service with the consent of the
officer, shall be as follows:-
1. to the Public Service
11. to another post of the Provincial Public Service of other province
Ill. to a post in the Presidential Secretariat
IV . to a post in the staff of the Parliament of Sri Lanka
V. to a post in the approved personal staff of a minister of the Provincial Council
VI. for a service in a V olunteer Force
VII. for service in a Presidential Commission appointed by the President under the  Commission of Inquiry Act
VllI. to a post in a University in Sri Lanka recognized by the University Grant Commission
IX. to a post in a Public Corporation or Authority
X. to a post in a Government Project
Xl. to a post in a company owned by the Government
xII. to a post of a statutory institution of the Western Provincial Council
XllI. to a post in a company of which the Government holds more than 50% of shares and controlling interest
XIV . for work in a trade union in the public sector with the approved number of members and which is in conformity
with the provisions in Para. 4 of Chapter XXV of the Establishments Code
X V for work in a welfare union in the public sector with the approved number of members
13 I . Where the officer requests for release at his own instance he shall apply to the Appointing  authority as per
Appendix 10 and if the release is done on the needs of the government, the  Secretary to the Ministry to which the
officer is proposed to be released shall make the application as per Appendix 11 along with a letter of consent from
the officer. The Secretary,  ministry of Public Administration shall be the relevant Secretary for the purpose of the
Sections  other than Section 130 (ii), 130 (v) and 130 (xii) while the Western Provincial Chief Secretary shall be the
relevant Secretary for the purpose of Section 130 (ii), 130 (v) and 130 (xii).
132. The Appointing Authority shall have the power to reject a request made in terms of Section 131 in anyone of the
following instances:
i. Where the relevant officer is not confirmed in the Provincial Public Service
ii. Where the relevant officer has not passed the required Departmental examinations or Efficiency Bars which
the officer should have passed by the date he requests for release from the provincial public service
iii. Where the officer is over 57 years of age
iv. Where disciplinary action against the officer is in progress or is contemplated against him
v. Where there is legal proceedings against the officer relating to any matter connected with the Government
vi Where the officer has been provided with special training to facilitate the performance of the functions of
the post he holds
vii. Where there is a legal agreement binding the officer of the provincial public service for service to the
Government or the Provincial Council for a pending period
viii. Where the release of the officer of the provincial public service will adversely affect the performance of duties
in the Department or institution in which the officer now working

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
16A
ix. Where no arrangements have been made to settle in full or in installments the balance of a loan obtained by
the officer from the provincial council, in accordance with the relevant Regulations and Circular instructions
x . Where there is an outstanding amount of money due to the Provincial Council from the officer other than
the unsettled loans
xi. Where he has not absolved the Provincial Council of all  responsibilities regarding any relief for privilege
granted to him by a third party under the Provincial Council securities when he was working as an officer of
the provincial public service.
xii. Where he has entered into a surety agreement or any such similar bond with the Provincial Council and where
a new surety has not entered into a surety agreement with the Provincial Council
xiii. Where the consent of the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the department to which the officer of the
provincial public service is attached has not been received.
133. The provisions in Section 132 above shall be subject to the following exceptions :
i. Notwithstanding the provision in Sub Section VI above, if an officer who has received specialized training is
requested to be released for a post where his specialized training could be more productively utilized, such training
shall not be an impediment for his release.
ii. Notwithstanding Sub Section IX above, if the relevant Head of the Institution to which the officer of the provincial
public service is to be released has given an undertaking in writing to recover the balance of the loan due to the
Provincial Council, in installments from the Public Officer and remit same to the relevant Head of the Department,
such balance of a loan shall not be an impediment for his release.
134. The period for which the Appointing Authority may release an officer of the provincial public service shall be as
follows:
i. Permanent basis or for a definite period on temporary basis to a post in a volunteer force or a post in the
staff of the Parliament of Sri Lanka
ii. For a period requested by a Commission appointed by the President under the Commissions of Inquiry
Act.
iii. Permanent basis or for a period of 02 years on temporary basis to a University or Public Corporation; or
government project or a company owned by the government or a company of which government holds more
than 50% shares and controlling interest.
iv. Release on permanent basis an officer who does not belong to the All Island Services for the provincial
public service of another province
v. For service in a trade union or in a welfare union in the public sector or in the provincial public service
registered by the Registrar of Trade Unions for a period of 02 years or for the period he holds the post in the
respective union, whichever is less.
135. Where it is found necessary to extend the temporary period of release in any of the instances mentioned in Section
134 above, the Appointing Authority shall forward such request to the Provincial Public Service Commission for
approval at least 03 months before the end of the  period together with the letter of consent of the officer, written
request of the respective Head of institution and the recommendation of the Appointing Authority where the
Provincial Public  Service Commission is not the Appointing Authority. Where the Provincial Public Service Commission
is the Appointing Authority such recommendation shall be given by the Secretary to the Ministry and Head of the
Department relating to the substantive post of the officer. However, in any of the instances mentioned in Section 134
above, the period that an officer could be temporarily released from the provincial public service during his entire
career shall be subject to a maximum of 05 years.
136. Where an officer of the provincial public service has been temporarily released to an  outside post from the
provincial public service in terms of Section 130 on the need of the  government he shall be entitled to the benefits
as declared under Section 10 (l) of the Minutes on Pension. However, he shall be deemed to have been on no-pay
leave during the period .

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
.  137. The provisions set out in Section 10 (1) of the Minutes on Pension shall be applicable to  an officer who obtained
no-pay leave from the provincial public service.
138.  In order to enable action to be taken to protect the pension rights of the officer who has been released to a post
outside the provincial public service the Appointing Authority shall send copies of letters releasing him from the
provincial public service and reversion to his substantive post to the Provincial Chief Secretary and to the Director
General of Pensions at the time of release and at the time of his reversion.
139. Where an officer of the provincial public service has been released to a Public Corporation or a University or a
company owned by the government or a company of which government holds more than 50% of shares and
controlling interest or a special government project, it shall be the responsibility of the respective institution to remit
to the Director General of Pensions 25% of the consolidated salary of the officer as contribution to the pension, and
contributions to, as the case may be, the Widows’ & Orphans’ Pension Fund or the Widowers’ & Orphans’ Pension
Fund, and it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority and the respective officer to ensure its compliance.
140. On receipt of the written approval to release an officer to a relevant post in terms of provisions of Section 130 above,
it shall be the responsibility of such officer to duly hand over documents of the provincial council, computer
passwords, any other property, keys and official identity card etc. in his charge, to his Department Head or another
officer designated by the Head of the Institution.
141. The release of an officer of the provincial public service to a post outside the provincial public service on temporary
basis shall end in anyone of the following instances. In such an event the Appointing Authority shall have
responsibility and authority to recall the officer to the substantive service or post.
i. When the period of release ends;
ii. The institution to which the officer was released does not need his services any further;
iii. The officer is unwilling to serve in the respective institution any further;
iv. The closure of the institution to which the officer was released or the abolition of the post he holds
v. A decision has been taken by the Disciplinary Authority to initiate disciplinary action against the officer.
CHAPTER   XIII
Rc-employment in the Provincial Public Service of a person retired from Public Service or Provincial Public Service
142. The power to re-employ in the provincial public service a person who has retired from the public service or the
provincial public service vests exclusively with the Governor.
143. The following persons are not eligible for re-employment in the provincial public service :
i. A person compulsorily retired as an alternative to dismissal
ii. A person retired on disciplinary grounds
ii. A person retired for general inefficiency
iv. A person retired as a result of refusal of extension of service
v. A person retired on his consent to retire on a government policy decision
vi. A person found guilty of any offence set out in Schedule 1 of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial
Public Service Commission, Disciplinary Code of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission or V olume
II of the Establishments Code immediately preceding three years from the date of retirement.
vii. A person retired under Section 12 of the Minutes on Pension
viii. A Person against whom disciplinary proceedings are pending.
144. A person who has retired from the service before reaching compulsory age of retirement will not be reemployed in a
post except under exceptional circumstances. If such a person is  re-employed in the provincial public service it shall
be done on the basis of freezing his pension until he reaches the date of compulsory retirement.
9—PG 2329

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
18A
145. A person who has retired from the public service or the provincial public service may be  re-employed in the
provincial public service only on contract basis. Such an appointment shall be  limited to a maximum period of one
year at a time. The letter of appointment shall be prepared as per  the specimen in appendix 02 (a) while the agreement
shall be as per appendix 02 (b) .
146. A person who has retired from the public service or the provincial public service on medical grounds could be
re-employed only upon all the following conditions being satisfied.
i. He had not passed the optional age of retirement by the time he is re-employed
ii. A duly constituted Government Medical Board has certified that he is physically and mentally fit to perform
satisfactorily the duties of the respective post
ii. At least one year has elapsed since the date of retirement.
iv. He had not been found guilty of any offence set out in Schedule I of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial
Public Service Commission, Disciplinary Code of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission or V ol. II of the
Establishments Code immediately preceding 3 years from the date of retirement.
147. Where a person who had been retired on medical grounds is re-employed his pension shall be freezed and he shall
be placed on the salary point he drew at the time of retirement or on the corresponding salary point if there had been
a salary revision.
CHAPTER XIV
Termination of Employment and Resignation from Provincial Public Service
148. The Appointing Authority is vested with the power to terminate a Substitute Employee without giving prior notice
or reasons. However, he shall record in detail in the respective file the reasons for such a decision.
149. The Appointing Authority may terminate the services of an officer of the provincial public service who is on
probation, in accordance with the provisions in Chapter VIII.
150. Where a letter of resignation is received from an officer of the provincial public service in terms of Section 45 of
Chapter VI by a Head of the Department, he shall forthwith get the following matters clarified.
1. That there are no disciplinary proceedings pending against the officer nor is there a prima facie case
indicating immediate initiation of such proceedings
ii. That there is no agreement or bond binding the officer for a specified period of service to the government
or the provincial council
iii. That there is no sum of money whatsoever due to the government or the provincial council from the officer
iv. That he has absolved the government or the provincial council of any pending responsibilities as regards
relief and privileges provided to him by a third party on surety furnished by the government or the provincial
council when he was working as an officer of the provincial public service
v. That the officer has duly returned all government or provincial council property in his charge
vi. That there are no judicial proceedings pending against the officer regarding any matter connected with the
government and the provincial council.
vii. That he has provided another surety for any surety agreement he has entered into with the government or the
provincial council and that the other surety has entered into a new surety agreement with the government or
the provincial council.
viii. That he has produced his resignation letter prior to a calendar month or paid back a month’s salary.
151. Where it appears to the Head of Department that the resignation of an officer of the provincial public service cannot
be accepted due to any of the reasons mentioned in Section 150  above, a full report together with certified copies
of supporting documents shall be sent forthwith by the Head of Department to the Appointing Authority with the
letter of resignation of the officer.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
152. Where the Head of Department is satisfied that no impediment is caused by any matter mentioned in Section 150
above for the acceptance of the resignation, he shall inform the officer in writing that if he resigns from his
appointment he will forfeit all claims to a pension, gratuity and all the benefits arising from his service prior to
resignation, should be afterwards succeed in obtaining re-employment in the provincial public service and that if
the resignation is accepted any application to withdraw it later will not be considered. Such letter shall be handed
over to the officer personally, wherever possible, and if it is not possible to do so, it shall be sent by registered post.
153. Where the relevant officer has not withdrawn the letter of resignation within 7 days of the handing over or the
dispatch under registered post the letter referred to in Section 152 above to the officer, the Head of Department shall
forward without delay his report and recommendations together with the letter of resignation of the officer with
certified copies of the letter sent to the officer, to the Appointing Authority,
154. Where after consider ation of the report and recommendation of the Head of Department, the Appointing Authority
is satisfied that the resignation could be accepted he shall inform the relevant officer directly under registered post
with copy to the Head of Department that the resignation has been accepted and also the effective date of the
resignation.
155. Where the Appointing Authority decides that the resignation cannot be accepted, he shall  communicate such fact
to the officer directly under registered post with copy to the Head of Department together with reasons that led to
such a decision.
156. Under no circumstances can an officer of the provincial public service resign with retrospective effect.
157. Where the officer fails to report for duty before the decision of the Appointing Authority  is received by him the
officer shall be deemed to have vacated his post on his own accord and  further action shall be taken in terms of
Chapter XV.
CHAPTER XV
Vacation of Post
158. Every officer of the provincial public service shall report for duty on each working day unless his leave has been
formally approved.
159. Where at any time an officer finds it difficult to report for duty, it is his responsibility to inform his Head of Institution
of such absence and get his leave duly approved so that the latter may take alternative measures to get the
respective work done. However, if any officer of the provincial public service is unable to report for duty owing to
unavoidable circumstances without getting his leave approved, it shall be the responsibility of the officer to
somehow inform the Head of Institution of his absence within 24 hours of the time of commencement of his duty on
that particular day.
160. An officer who absents himself from duty without informing his Head of Institution as mentioned in Section 159
above shall be deemed to have vacated his post on his own accord. It shall be the duty of his Appointing Authority
or immediate Administrative Head to inform the officer forthwith as per Appendix 12 by registered post. If the
vacation of post notice is issued by an authority other than the Appointing Authority, he shall send copies of the
notice to the Appointing Authority and to other relevant authorities.
161. No explanation shall be called from or charges framed against an officer who is deemed to have vacated his post on
his own accord in terms of Section 160 except in the circumstances set out in Section 162.
162 Where the person who vacated post volunteers an explanation in writing to the officer who was the Disciplinary
Authority during his time in the public service within three months of the date the vacation of post notice the
Disciplinary Authority shall consider his explanation in terms of the respective disciplinary rules. Having considered

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
20A
his explantation, the Disciplinary Authority may reinstate him with or without punishment or refuse such reinstatement.
The Disciplinary Authority shall record the reasons for his decision in the respective file clearly and accurately in
detail. Further, he shall formally communicate his decision to the said person. In respect of an  officer aggrieved by
the decision of the Disciplinary Authority, action shall be taken as per the disciplinary procedure of the provincial
public service commission.
CHAPTER   XVI
Extention of Service and Retirement
163. The retirement of an officer of the provincial public service is governed by the Public and Judicial Officers Retirement
Ordinance, Rules made under that Ordinance, Minutes on Pensions, and by the policy decisions of Cabinet of
Ministers.
164. An officer who does not come within the special categories of employees mentioned in Section 14 of the Minutes on
Pensions and who is considered to be an officer entitled to the  pension by the Director General of Pensions and who
has completed 20 years service in the  provincial public service may retire at his own discretion. But, he shall be
entitled to the pension  only from the date he completes 55 years of age.
165. Subject to the provisions of the Government, the optional age of retirement of an officer of the provincial public
service shall be 55 years and the compulsory age of retirement shall be 60 years.
166. An officer of the provincial public service may be in service till 57 years of age without extensions of service.
However, if an officer of the provincial public service intends to retire from his service on completion of 55 years of
age or thereafter, or on reaching the compulsory age of  retirement, he shall forward such request for retirement
formally in writing to the Appointing  authority or, as the case may be, to the authority on whom powers have been
delegated, six months before the date he intends to retire. Provided however
i. Where disciplinary proceedings are pending against the officer or such disciplinary proceedings are
contemplated the retirement of the officer shall be made subject to Section 12 of the Minutes on Pensions. It
shall be the duty of the Head of the Department and/or Head of Institution to bring such matters to the notice
of the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been delegated,
when request for retirement of officers of the provincial public service are made.
ii. Where the officer commits a misconduct warranting a disciplinary action against him after his retirement has
been approved by the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have
been delegated, the order for retirement shall be converted from normal retirement to that of a retirement under
Section 12 of the Minutes on Pensions by the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on
whom the powers have been delegated, when such misconduct is brought to the notice of the Appointing
Authority or, as ‘the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been delegated, before the effective
date of retirement and shall serve or cause to be served a copy of the order on the officer concerned.
iii. Where the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been
delegated has granted a normal retirement to an officer on the basis that no disciplinary proceedings are
pending or contemplated and if such pending disciplinary proceedings or contemplated disciplinary action is
brought to the notice of the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers
have been delegated, after the normal retirement has been granted and before the effective date of retirement
the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been delegated shall
convert that retirement to that of a retirement under Section 12 of the Minutes on Pensions and shall serve or
cause to be served a copy of the order on the officer concerned.
167. The Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been delegated has the
power to extend the services of an officer in the provincial public service whose work, conduct and attendance have
been satisfactory during the previous three years and who is physically and mentally fit to further perform the duties
of his post, beyond the age of 57 years up to 60 years subject to the following conditions:

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
i. An officer who intends to serve beyond 57 years of age shall forward his request for extension prepared as per
specimen in Appendix 13 annually to the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, to the authority on
whom the powers have been delegated, through the Head of Department or the Head of Institution, the first
request at least six months and subsequent requests three months before the date of the commencement of
the extension.
ii. Where a formal request for extension of service beyond 57 years of age is received from an officer of the
provincial public service by the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the
powers have been delegated, he shall, if he intends to grant the extension, forthwith take action formally to
convey such fact to the officer. Such extensions shall be granted only for one year at a time.
iii. Where a request for extension of service beyond 57 years of age by an officer of the provincial public service
is rejected the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been
delegated shall record the reasons for his decision in the respective file lucidly and accurately in detail and
shall formally convey such reasons to the respective officer. It shall be the responsibility of the Appointing
Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have been delegated, to convey his
decision to the officer without delay providing him sufficient time to make an appeal if he so desires, before the
end of his service.
168. Notwithstanding sub-section l67 (III) above, if the date for the completion of the ten-year  period necessary for an
officer to be eligible to pension rights falls after the optional date of retirement and before he reaches 60 years of age,
it would be appropriate for the Appointing  authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have
been delegated, to grant the extension of service so that the officer may be eligible for pension rights. However, this
Section shall not preclude the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the authority on whom the powers have
been delegated, to reject such an extension of service on the indiscipline of the officer or if a properly constituted
Medical Board has certified that the officer is suffering from a physical or mental ailment that render him unable to
duly perform the duties of his post or  if granting an extension would seriously hamper the proper function of the
institution or the successful performance of duties. Further, the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the
Authority on whom the powers have been delegated shall record his reasons for such a decision  lucidly and
accurately in detail in the personal file and keep all the factors supporting his decision
169.  In order to pay the pension without difficulty, delay or causing any hardship to an officer  if the provincial public
service who had retired, the Administrative Authority or the Head of Department shall, at least nine months before
the optional  date of retirement, ensure that the personal file and history sheet of the officer is complete, accurate
and updated and maintain it in -such manner until the officer reaches his date of retirement.
170. In the case of an officer of the provincial public service retiring from the provincial public  service, the respective
Administrative Authority or Head of Department or Appointing Authority or as the case may be, the authority on
whom the powers have been delegated shall forward to Director General of Pensions all documents required to pay
his pension at least three months  the before the date of his retirement.
.
CHAPTER   XVII
Procedure relating to Promotions
171. (a) In terms of Section 32 (1) and 32 (3) of the Provincial Councils Act, No 42 of 1987 and  subject to any other law,
the Governor may, from time to time, delegate to the Provincial Public Service Commission of this province the
powers of promotion of officers of the Western Provincial Public Service.
 (b) In terms of Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act No 28 of 1990, the powers vested in the
Provincial Public Service Commission may be delegated to the Provincial Chief Secretary or a particular officer.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
22A
172.  (a) The powers vested in the Governor in terms of the above section may be delegated to the Provincial Public
Service Commission in terms of Section 32 (2) of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 and:
(b) to the Provincial Public Service Commission or a relevant officer subject to Section 33(8) of the Provincial
Councils (Amendment) Act, No: 28 of 1990. Accordingly, the power of  promotion of such officer is also vested
in the Appointing Authority or, as the case may be, the .authority on whom the powers have been delegated.
173. Every promotion in the provincial public service shall be made only in accordance with the approved Service Minute
or Scheme of Recruitment It shall be the responsibility of  appointing Authority to promote the officers of the
provincial public service on due time as  provided for in the Service Minutes or Schemes of Recruitment approved
by the Governor.
174. Before making a promotion it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to  satisfy himself that a
vacancy in the approved cadre exists for the promotion of an officer except in the case of a promotion which has
perforce to be made where an officer has acquired the necessary qualifications.
175. An officer of the provincial public service must earn his promotion by a satisfactory service and fulfillment of all the
required qualifications prescribed in the Service Minute or the scheme of Recruitment.
i. Satisfactory service means a period of service, during which period an officer had earned all annual salary
increments fell due by efficient and diligent discharge of duties, by passing over efficiency bars fell due, by
qualifying for confirmation in service fell due and during which period he has not committed a punishable
offence.
ii. Where an officer has not been granted his due annual salary increments for legitimate reason the period
during which the increment had stand suspended, reduced, stopped or deferred and where an officer had
committed a punishable offence falling under Schedule I of the Disciplinary Code of the Western Provincial
Public Service and V olume II of the Establishments Code, a period of three years from the date of commitment
of the offences and where an officer had committed a punishable offence falling under the Schedule II of the
Disciplinary Code of the Western Provincial Public Service and V olume II of the Establishments Code a period
of one year from the date of commitment of the offence, shall be excluded in computing his period of satisfactory
service.
176. It shall be the duty of Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority to conduct the required examination, trade
test, interview etc. on the due dates in order to provide officers with an opportunity to acquire the qualification for
promotion.
177. Notwithstanding the provision which contains in Section 24, in the case of the grade to grade promotion in service
is made belatedly owing to some unavoidable circumstances and where it appears to the Appointing Authority that
the officer of the provincial public service is in no way responsible for such delay and on perusal of eligibility it is
proved that the officer has qualified himself for promotion in all respects, the Appointing Authority shall promote
the officer with effect from the due date despite the fact that the officer may no longer in provincial public service or
is retired or dead.
178. The process of promotion shall be conducted in a transparent manner so that it will generate confidence among the
officers that promotions are done solely as provided for in the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment and not
in any other manner or due to extraneous influences.
179. Where marks are to be allocated for examinations, tests and interviews for promotion held in accordance with the
approved Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment such marking scheme shall be included in the advertisement
calling for applications for promotions.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
180. The provisions in Chapter VII on “General Conditions relating to Appointments” in these ‘procedural rules shall
apply, mutatis mutandis, with regard to promotions.
TRANSFERS
General Conditions Relating to Transfers
181. (a) In terms of Section 32 (1) and 32 (3) of the Provincial Councils Act, No 42 of 1987 and  subject to any other law,
the Governor may, from time to time, delegate to the Provincial Public Service Commission of this province the
powers of transfer of officers of the Western Provincial Public Service.
(b) In terms of Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act,  No  28 of 1990, the powers vested in the
Provincial Public Service Commission may be delegated to the Provincial Chief Secretary or a particular
officer.
182. Every officer of the Provincial Public Service is subjected to transfer
183. An officer of the provincial public service can be transferred only by the Provincial Public Service Commission or
by an Authority with Delegated Power.
184. An officer of the provincial public service is transferred to achieve, as the case may be, all  or  several or anyone
of the following objectives:
i. Fill a vacancy in an institution
ii. Meet the administrative needs of an institution
iii. Promote the efficiency and productivity of the institution
iv. Meet the needs of a disciplinary process
v. Implement a disciplinary order
vi. Provide the officer with an opportunity to gain experience in a wider field
vii. Provide the officer with an opportunity for professional development and improvement of his skills
viii. Provide relief from personal difficulties experienced by the officer.
However, when transfers are made for reasons given from ii to viii above, it is necessary that a vacancy exists in
the relevant institution.
185. Transfers are fourfold as indicated below :
i. Transfers done annually
ii. Transfers done on exigencies of service
iii. Transfers done on disciplinary grounds
iv. Mutual transfers on requests made by officers
ANNUAL TRANSFER
Annual Transfer Committees
186. The Authority with Delegated Power shall make all possible efforts to adhere to the time limits stipulated in the
following Sections in respect of Annual Transfers. Provided however, no order made under the Annual Transfer
Scheme shall be invalid by reason only of any non observance of such limits which has not resulted in a failure of
justice.
187. The Authorities with Delegated Power shall before 01st June constitute annual transfer committees within departments
and ministries to seek proposals on annual transfers. Annual transfer .committees with regard to the officers of the
provincial public service who belong to the Combined Services shall be set up by the Provincial Chief Secretary.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
24A
188.  The Authority with Delegated Power shall set up separate annual transfer committees for each service or category
of officers of the provincial public service, in a department or ministry when the number of such officers in each
service or category exceeds 25. However, an Authority with Delegated Power may under special circumstances and
at its discretion appoint an annual transfer committee in a ministry or department even where the number of officers
is less than 25.
189. The composition of an annual transfer committee of a ministry or department shall be as follows:
i. A deputy head or in the absence of such a post, the officer next in seniority of the relevant ministry or
department
ii. A senior officer of the provincial public service in charge of establishment matters of the relevant ministry
or department
iii A representative nominated by each trade union which conforms to the provisions in Chapter XXV of the
Establishments Code and which represents the category of officers and service falling within the purview of
the annual transfer committee, provided that such trade union has a minimum membership of 15% of the total
number of officers of the provincial public service.
190. The following instances shall not come within the scope of an annual transfer committee :
i. Internal attachment in a government institution not involving change in station
ii. Transfers on a disciplinary order or as required by a disciplinary process
iii. Transfers on exigencies of service
iv. Mutual transfers on requests made by officers of the provincial public service
Principal and Procedures on Annual Transfers
191. The Authority with Delegated Power shall before 15th of June in consultation with the annual transfer committee
prepare the principles and procedures on annual transfers of his Ministry or Department taking into consideration
the needs of such Ministry or Department, the conditions in the Service Minutes of respective services and the
Schemes of Recruitment of respective posts. These principles and procedures shall be made known to all the
relevant officers of the provincial public service when calling applications for annual transfers.
192.  When preparing the principles and procedures on annual transfers, the Authority with Delegated Power shall
take the following matters into consideration:
i. The period an officer has served in a work station
ii. Geographical location of work stations and the consequent facilities or difficulties
ii. Legitimate, supplementary financial and other benefits and privileges in work station
iv. Personal matters related to an officer of the provincial public service and the members of his family on which
some relief may be provided without prejudice to the needs of duty
v. To prevent commission of irregularities by an officer of the provincial public service due to continuous
service in the same work station or perform the same duty for a prolonged period
vi. Providing an opportunity for the officer to improve his knowledge and skills in a wider field
vii. Need for the smooth functioning of the Ministry or Department.
Calling of application for annual transfers
193. The Authority with Delegated power may before 30th of June issue the notice calling for applications for annual
transfers from the relevant officers of the provincial public service. He should in the notice state that applications
for annual transfers should be submitted to him on or before 31st of July.
194. The Authority with Delegated Power should take steps to hand over the annual transfer applications received by
him to the relevant annual transfer committee before 10th of August.

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
Issuing the Notice on Proposed Annual Transfers
195.  In making its recommendations the annual transfer committee shall take into consideration the principles and
procedure on annual transfers prepared by the Authority with Delegated Power and the provisions in this Chapter.
196. An annual transfer committee may submit its recommendations in writing to the Authority with Delegated Power
before the 31 st of August. It shall be the duty of each annual transfer committee to record the reasons for its
recommendations.
197. The Authority with Delegated Power may take action to issue the notice on the proposed annual transfers prior to
15th of September after the receipt of the recommendations of the annual transfer committee. The notice shall
contain the last date on or before which any representation should be made to the Authority with Delegated Power
by any officer of the provincial public service who is aggrieved by the proposed transfer. Provided however, the
maximum period for such representation shall not exceed 14 days inclusive of non working days.
198. An officer of the provincial public service who wishes to make representations regarding the proposed annual
transfer relating to him should make such representations to the Authority with Delegated Power through Head of
the Institution or Secretary to the Provincial Ministry or Head of the Department as the case may be, to reach him on
or before the date given in the said notice as per Appendix 14. The relevant officer of the provincial public service
is permitted to submit a copy of his representations direct to the Authority with Delegated Power, if he so desires.
It shall be the responsibility of the relevant Head of Department or the Head of Institution, as the case may be, to
refer such written representations submitted to him by the officers concerned to the Authority with Delegated
Power to reach him on or before the prescribed date.
Annual Transfer Proposals Review Committee
199. The Authority with Delegated Power shall appoint an annual transfer proposals review committee before 15
th of
September to review the proposals of the annual transfer committee based on representations made in terms of
Section 198 above. He shall take steps to appoint three senior officers serving in his ministry or department or
institution as members of the said committee and to appoint the most senior officer among them as the Chairman of
the Committee.
200. The annual transfer proposals review committee may take steps to submit its written recommendations on the
proposed annual transfers to the Authority with Delegated Power on or before 15th of October. It shall be the
responsibility of the annual transfer proposals review committee to indicate in their report the reasons for its
recommendations. In making its recommendation the annual transfer proposals review committee shall take into
consideration the principles and procedures on annual transfers prepared by the Authority with Delegated Power
and the provisions in this Chapter.
Issuing Annual Transfer Orders
201.  Authority with Delegated Power shall issue annual transfer orders taking into consideration the proposals of the
annual transfer committee and the recommendations of the annual transfer proposals review committee.
202. All annual transfers may be made effective from 01st January. It shall be the responsibility of the Authority with
Delegated Power to issue the annual transfer orders at least two months before the effective   date of annual
transfers, i. e. before 01st of November.
Implementation of Annual Transfer Orders
203. The Head of Department or Head of Institution shall release an officer of the provincial public service who is on
transfer, well in time from his present station so that he may assume duties at his new station on the due date.
Likewise, it shall be the responsibility of the officer on transfer to report for duty at his new station on the due date.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
26A
204. The Head of Institution shall take action to make temporary internal arrangements to cover the duties of an officer
of the provincial public service who is on transfer, without waiting for the arrival of his successor to release the
officer. The Head of Institution shall release the officer on transfer, well in time enabling him to report for duty on the
due date without waiting for his successor.
205. The Head of Department or Head of Institution shall, when an officer in his staff receives an annual transfer order,
make arrangements to take charge of files, documents, other properties of the provincial council, keys, computer
passwords and official identity card etc. well in time from the custody of the officer on transfer. Likewise, it shall be
the responsibility of the officer on transfer to make arrangements, in consultation with his superiors, to duly hand
over such materials that are in his custody.
206. An officer who does not report for duty at his new station duly despite the fact that he had been released from his
former station shall be deemed as having vacated his post on his own accord and it shall be the responsibility of the
Head of the Department or the Head of institution, as the case may be, of his new station to take action in terms of
Chapter XV.
Transfers on Exigencies of Service
207. An of ficer of the provincial public service may be transferred on exigencies of service by the Authority with
Delegated Power for anyone of the following reasons:
i. Where the services of an officer of the provincial public service no longer needed at his present station
ii. Where an officer is needed for service in another station or that particular officer himself is needed
iii. Where it is found, due to administrative reasons, that the retention of an officer of the provincial public
service in his present station is not suitable.
208. Before an officer of the provincial public service is transferred on exigencies of service, the Authority with Delegated
Power shall personally satisfy himself that need has actually arisen as specified in Section 207 above and that the
transfer cannot be deferred till the next annual transfers.
209. Depending on the nature of the need for services that has arisen, the Authority with Delegated Power may
transfer an officer of the provincial public service, at short notice.
210. The Authority with Delegated Power shall record in the relevant file clearly all the factors that caused the transfer of
an officer of the provincial public service on exigencies of service. The Authority with Delegated Power shall
convey the reasons to the officer concerned.
Transfers on disciplinary grounds
211. The Authority with Delegated Power may transfer an officer of the provincial public service on disciplinary grounds,
in the following instances, even without prior notice. Further, the Authority with Delegated Power shall convey the
reasons in writing to the officer concerned:
i. Where a disciplinary order has been made with a transfer as punishment consequent upon a formal
disciplinary inquiry held against the relevant officer of the provincial public service
ii. Although the findings of a preliminary investigation do not warrant the interdiction of an officer, but
require that he should not be allowed to serve in his present station
ii. Where it is found on matters revealed either before the beginning, or in the course of a preliminary investigation
or on existing circumstances that the retention of an officer in his post or station may obstruct the conduct of
the preliminary investigation.
Mutual Transfers on request made by officers
212. Subject to the following conditions, the Authority with Delegated Power may entertain and issue transfer orders, on
requests made by two or more officers of the provincial public service for mutual transfers:

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
i. The respective officers are in the same service and grade or similar posts
ii. The respective Heads of Departments or Heads of Institutions as the case may be, have given their
consent for the request made by the respective officers
iii. That none among the respective officers has been transferred to his present station on disciplinary grounds
and has not completed the punishment period stipulated in the disciplinary order.
iv. That all respective officers have served in their present stations at least for a minimum period of 02 years.
Steps to be taken following the implimentations of transfers
213.  It, shall be the responsibility of the former Head of the Department or Head of the Institution, as the case may be,
to duly transmit the following documents regarding the officer to his new Head of Department or Head of Institution
within two weeks of the transfer of an officer.
i. Updated Personal File with the updated History Sheet
ii. Recommendation in respect of the period, from the date of the officer’s last increment up to the date of
implementation of the transfer, regarding the payment of the officer’s next increment;
iii. Performance Evaluation Report of the officer
iv. Leave particulars of the officer
v. Statement on Holiday Railway Warrants obtained by the officer
vi. Salary particulars of the officer
vii. Credit Balance Statement of the officer
viii. Report containing details of all foreign travel of the officer during his service
ix.. Report containing the details of all study courses, workshops and various conferences attended by the
officer
x . Report prepared on the officer where the relevant Head of the Department has ordered to do so ..
xi. Other important documents relating to the officer.
CHAPTER   XIX
Preparation of Registers and Reports on Officers of the Provincial Public Service
214. Every Authority with Delegated Power, Head of Department and Head of Institution shall maintain, and regularly
update the following documents as per Appendices mentioned below containing all the information on all the
officers of the provincial public service within their purview:
Registers to be maintained Appendix
i. Register of Appointments and Promotions - No. 15
ii. Register of Dismissed Officers - No. 16
iii. E-Register of Resigned Officers - No. 17
iv. Register of Officers who had vacated their posts - No. 18
v. Register of interdicted officers and those sent on compulsory leave - No. 19
vi. Register of retired officers - No. 20
215. The Authorities with Delegated Power shall forward half-yearly a statistical summary of data maintained in the
registers described in Section 214 above to the Provincial Chief Secretary as per specimen in Appendix 21. Accordingly,
the Provincial Chief Secretary must receive the data due by 30th of June each year before 20th of July and the date
by 31st of December before 20th of January.
216. Each Head of an office under the purview of the provincial council shall maintain and regularly update a register
relating to the entire staff employed in his office as per Appendix 22.
217. The Authorities with Delegated Power, as the case may be, shall maintain separate seniority lists for each and
every category of officers, which lists shall be, updated half yearly.
218. Every officer of the provincial public service holding a permanent post and subject to performance appraisal shall
on the due date forward his performance appraisal form after filling the relevant sections to the Head of Department

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
28A
or Head of Institution for his appraisal. It shall be the duty of the Head of Department or Head of Institution after
receiving the appraisal form to duly conduct the appraisal of the relevant officer.
CHAPTER XX
Procedure on Appeals against Promotion and Transfers
219. (a) In terms of Section 32 (l) and 32 (3) of the Provincial Councils Act, No 42 of 1987 and subject to any other law,
the Governor may, from time to time, delegate to the Provincial Public Service Commission of this province the
powers of promotion and transfer of officers of the Western Provincial Public Service.
(b) In terms of Section 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No 28 of 1990,  the powers vested in the
Provincial Public Service Commission may be delegated to the Provincial Chief Secretary or a particular
officer.
Any officer aggrieved by an order relating to a promotion or transfer made, subject to the powers of delegation,
by an Authority with Delegated Power may appeal to the Provincial Public Service Commission or the relevant
Authority against such order.
220. An officer making an appeal against an order relating to a transfer or promotion to the relevant authority shall do so
only as per Appendix 23. He shall also submit certified copies of the documents in support of his representation
along with the appeal.
221. An officer of the provincial public service shall submit an appeal to the Provincial Public Service Commission only
through the Authority with Delegated Power with copies, to Head of Institution, Head of Department and, as the
occasion demands, to the Secretary to the respective Ministry. It shall be the duty of the Authority with Delegated
Power  to submit such appeals forthwith to the Provincial Public Service Commission with his observation. The
officer, if he so desires, may submit an advance copy of the appeal direct to the Provincial Public Service Commission.
222. A Retired Officer making an appeal relating to a promotion due during the period he was in the provincial public
service on which a decision has been made by an Authority with Delegated Power after his retirement shall submit
such appeal direct to the Provincial Public Service Commission. However, he shall send the copy of the appeal to his
former Head of Department or Head of Institution.
223. An appeal against an order relating to a promotion made by the Authority with Delegated Power shall be made by
the relevant officer within 30 days of making the decision in question and appeal against an order relating to a
transfer made by the Authority with Delegated Power shall be made within 14 days of the receipt of the transfer order
by the officer. Appeals which are not received within the stipulated time shall be rejected by the Western Provincial
Public Service Commission or the relevant Appellate Authority.
224. The Head of Institution, Head of Department, Appointing Authority and Secretary to the Ministry shall ensure that
an appeal handed over by an officer for transmission to the Provincial Public Service Commission is delivered to the
Secretary of the said Commission within 15 days of the receipt of the appeal together with all relevant files,
documents and reports and respective observations and recommendations. However, in case of transfers made
under the annual transfer scheme referred to in Chapter XVIII the appeal together with relevant files, documents,
reports, observations and recommendations shall be delivered to the Provincial Chief Secretary on or before 01 st of
December.
225. It is the responsibility of every officer to submit his appeal in accordance with the requirements in this Chapter and
any appeal that does not conform to these requirements shall not be considered by the Western Provincial Public
Service Commission or the relevant Appellate Authority, and also by the Provincial Chief Secretary.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
226. The Western Provincial Public Service Commission or the relevant Appellate Authority may make a determination
on an appeal made against a promotion within 45 days of the receipt of the documents referred to in Section 224
above. The Provincial Chief Secretary may make a determination on an appeal made against a transfer within 15 days
of the receipt of the documents referred to in Section 224 above.
227. The Commission shall send its decision on an appeal made as aforesaid direct to the appellant officer under
registered cover with copies to the Authority with Delegated Power, Head of the Department and Head of the
Institution.
228. An officer aggrieved by an order or decision made by the Provincial Public Service Commission has the right to
prefer an appeal to the Provincial Governor within two weeks after the receipt of the decision by the appellant officer.
CHAPTER XXI
Channels of Communication
229.  An Authority with Delegated Power may communicate with the Provincial Public Service Commission directly
under his signature on matters relating to its powers.
230. Except otherwise provided for in these procedural rules the officers shall correspond with the Provincial Public
Service Commission only through the relevant Head of Institution, Head of Department and the Secretary to the
Provincial Ministry.
231. Correspondence with the Provincial Public Service Commission shall be only through the Secretary to the
Provincial Public Service Commission.
CHAPTER  XXI
Interpretations
232. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these procedural rules:
I. “Constitution” means the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
II. “Citizen” means a Citizen of Sri Lanka as defined in the Constitution.
III. “Governor” means the Western Provincial Governor
IV . “Commission” means the Western Provincial Public Service Commission established in terms of the
Provincial Councils Act, No 42 of 1987.
V. “Authority with Delegated Power” means the authority on whom the powers have been delegated in terms of
the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act No: 28 of 1990 and Section 32 of the Provincial Councils Act No: 42
of 1987, subsequent to the delegation of powers vested in the Governor in terms of Section 32 (1) of the
Provincial Councils Act.
VI. “Chief Secretary” means the Western Provincial Chief Secretary appointed in terms of the Provincial
Councils Act No: 42 of 1987
VII. “Secretary to the Ministry” means the Secretaries to the Provincial Ministries in the “Western Province.
VIII. “Head of Department” means the Provincial Heads of Departments in the Western Provincial Council and
where necessary it refers to the Chief Secretary,  to the Western Provincial Governor, Secretary to the Western
Provincial Public Service Commission, Secretaries to Provincial Ministries and Council Secretary to the Western
Provincial Council.
IX. “Appointing Authority” means the Governor of the Western Province empowered to appoint, promote and
transfer officers of the Western Provincial Public Service, the authority on whom powers have been delegated
by the Governor of the Western Province in terms of the Provincial Councils Act No: 42 of 1987 and the
authority on whom the powers have been delegated under the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act No: 28
of 1990.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
30A
X. “Disciplinary Authority” means an Authority with Delegated Power of Disciplinary Control and dismissal of
officers of the Western Provincial Public Service. The Disciplinary Authority for officers of the Western
Provincial Governors’ Secretariat shall be the Secretary to the Provincial Governor, the Secretary to the
Western Provincial Public Service Commission for officers of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission
and the Council Secretary for officers of the  Council Secretariat of the Western Province.
XI “Administrative Authority” means an officer in the provincial public service who has been duly designated to
carry out administrative functions in terms of the provisions in Provincial Council Act No: 42 of 1987.
XII. “Director of Establishment” means the Western Provincial Governor
XIII. “Provincial Council” means the Western Provincial Council
XIV . “Provincial Public Service” means the Western Provincial Public Service.
XV . “Officer of the Provincial Public Service” means an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service.
XVI. “Staff Officer” means an officer defined as a staff officer in Paragraph 11 of Public Administration Circular
No.6/2006
XVII. “Field Officer” means an officer of the provincial public service whose work lies mainly at work sites, is not
confined to one particular place and involves regular attendance in the field and who is required to undertake
inspection and visits whose very nature of duties involves field duty and whose responsibilities are not
confined to any particular station or office.
XVIII.  “Substitute Employee” means a person engaged to perform the duties of a post temporarily until the substantive
holder who is absent is returned for duty or another .. arrangement is made to cover up his duties.
XIX. “Casual Employee” means a person engaged by a Head of Department or Head of Institution in the Western
Provincial Council temporarily to attend to an unexpected need, a need that will continue for a few days or a
need that routinely arises each year.
XX. Ex-serviceman” means an officer or a person of any other rank who has honourably left an armed service
by retirement or released other than on disciplinary grounds.
XXI. “All island services” means services published in the Government Gazette Notification No: 1295/26 dated 02
July 2003 and any other service identified by the appropriate authority from time to time.
XXII. “Combined Service” means the Provincial Public Management Assistants Service, Librarians’ Service,
Translators’ Service, Drivers’ Service, Office Employees Service in the Western Provincial Council and any
other service identified by the appropriate .authority from time to time as belonging to the Combined
Service.
XXIII. “Scheme of Recruitment” means a formal Scheme of Recruitment approved by the Western Provincial Governor
for the appointment of officers to a particular class, grade or post in the provincial public service, promotion
of such officer and matters incidental thereto.
XXIV .  “Service Minute” means a service minute duly approved by the Western Provincial Governor for the
appointment of officers of the Western Provincial Public Service to particular classes, grades or posts of a
service recognized as such by the Governor and the promotion of such officers including any matter incidental
thereto.
XXV . “Appointment” means the conferment of any paid office in the provincial public service subject to or not
subject to subsequent confirmation, to a person not already in the provincial public service, or an appointment,
or a promotion or transfer involving an increase of salary or any change in status of a person already in
provincial public service.
XXVI.  “Promotion” means the appointment in accordance with an approved Service Minute or a Scheme of
Recruitment, of an officer holding a post in the Western Provincial Public Service, to a post, class or grade
which is superior to the post he holds, or the class or grade to which he belongs.
XXVII. “Transfer” means the moving of an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service from one station or
institution to another station or institution within the Western Province by an Authority with Delegated
Power at his discretion or on disciplinary grounds or on the proposal of an Annual Transfer Committee or on
the recommendation of an Annual Transfer Proposals Review Committee or on the request of the officer or on
exigencies of service or on the appointment of the officer to another post as a result of promotion.
XXVIII. “Appointment on Contract” means an appointment of a person to a post in the Western Provincial Public
Service with specific conditions, for a specific period of time.
XXIX. “Re-instatement” means the restoration to office in the Western Provincial Public Service of a person who had
been interdicted or dismissed or whose probationary appointment has been terminated or who has been
treated as having vacated his post

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
XXX. “Superior Post” means one that has either the same or a higher initial salary and an incremental rate and a
higher maximum salary than the post with which it is compared. A post which has a fixed salary higher than or
equal to the maximum salary of the post with which it is compared is also a superior post.
XXXI. “Comparable Post” means one which has at least the same incremental rate and a maximum salary not less
than that of the post with which it is compared.
XXXII. “Inferior Post” is one which has a lower initial salary, a lower incremental rate and lower maximum salary, or
anyone of them lower than that of the post with which it is compared.
XXXIII. “Institution” means municipal councils established in terms of the provisions in the Municipal Councils
Ordinance No: 16 of 1947 (Chapter 252), Urban Councils established in terms of the provisions in the Urban
Councils Ordinance No: 61 of 1939 (Chapter 255). Pradeshiya Sabha established in terms of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act No: 15 of 1987, a separate unit set up under an officer of staff grade subject to the 13
th Amendment
to the Constitution to carry out a particular duty or service of a Ministry or Department in the Western
Provincial Council.
XXXIV . “Documents” means all the tiles, letters, registers, statements, reports, publications, books and
computerized data and information and computer password.
XXXV; Unless the context otherwise requires, words of masculine gender also mean words of feminine gender.
XXXVI. Unless the context otherwise requires, singular words also include their plural sense.
Procedure to be followed when there is inconsistency between texts
233. In the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these
procedural rules, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Transitional Provisions
234. All rules, regulations and procedure relating to appointment, promotion and transfer of officers of the Western
Provincial Public Service as are in force in terms of the provisions of the 13
th Amendment to the Constitution and
Section 32 of the Provincial Councils Act No: 42 of 1987 shall mutatis mutandis, cease to operate from the date of
coming into force of these procedural rules.
Provided however, orders, all steps taken for appointment, promotion and transfer, all orders made, directions given,
proceedings taken, transfers or retirement or release made, all things done or pending under provisions in force on
the immediately preceding the date of commencement of these rules, shall be deemed to have been made under these
Procedural Rules and shall continue in force and shall, as so far as it could have been made, issued, given or done
under those rules, have effect as if made, issued, given or done under the corresponding provisions of these rules,
mutatis mutandis.
list of Appendices
No. Appendix Section
1  Letter of Appointment on Permanent basis 53
2 Letter of Appointment on Contract basis 53, 145
3 Letter accepting or rejecting the Appointment 69
4 Letter confirming the reporting for Duty 72
5 Annual Review Report on officers subject to probation/acting 87,90,91
6 Letter terminating the appointment of an officer subjected to probationary period 86
7 Letter terminating the appointment of an officer subjected to acting period 93
8 Letter promoting over the Efficiency Bar 111
9 Letter terminating the Appointment for failure to pass the Efficiency Bar 116
10 Request for release from the Western Provincial Public Service by an officer 131
11 Request for release from current post on the need of the government 131
12 Notice of Vacation of Post 160

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
32A
13 Request for extension of service 167(i)
14 Representation relating to proposed annual transfers 198
15 Register of Appointments & Promotions 214
16 Register of Dismissed Officers 214
17 Register of Resigned Officers 214
18 Register of Officers Vacated Post 214
19 Register of officers Interdicted / on compulsory leave .
20. Register of Retired Officers 214
21 Biannual Report on changes of staff 215
22 Register of Staff Employed 216
23 Appeals against Appointments/Promotions/Transfers 220
APPENDIX 01
(Section 53)
Registered Post
My No. ........................
Address .............................
.............................................
.............................................
Date :....................................
Mr./Mrs./ Miss .....................
................................................
Sir/Madam
Appointment to the Post of...................................
in the Department of ..............................
*  I am pleased to inform you that you are appointed to the Post of ..................................................in the  Department
of............................................ with effect from.....................................on the results of the  competitive examination held
on......................................... professional test held on.......................................................... .and the  interview held
on..........................................Accordingly you are hereby informed to report to ..................................at the  .............................at..
.......................a.m. / p.m. on the above date and assume duties. If you fail to report for  duty as above without a valid reason
this appointment shall stand cancelled.
2. You shall hold this post on public trust. You shall efficiently and diligently discharge the duties of this post for
the benefit of the country and its people.
3. You should be unreservedly loyal to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and you are bound to treat
the duties of your post in the strictest confidence.
4. You have no right to engage yourself in a job in any. other institution or any other profession as long as you
are in the Public Service.
5. This appointment is permanent. However, you are subject to  a three year probation / one year acting period.
During this period you must prove that you are fit for Western Provincial Public Service by discharging the duties and
responsibilities stipulated in this letter of appointment competently, by good conduct and efficient discharge of your duties.
You must also ensure that other requirements you are called upon to fulfill during your probation / acting period are also
fulfilled. Y ou will be confirmed in this appointment at the end of your probation / acting period only if you succeed in fulfilling
all the above requirements. In case it appears that you are unable to do so this appointment may be revoked during or at the
end of the period. Your appointment shall be reckoned as permanent only after the issue of a formal letter by the Appointing
No. Appendix Section

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
Authority that you have been confirmed in your post. Until such letter is issued your appointment shall be treated as not
confirmed.
6. This appointment is pensionable. Further, you shall contribute to the Widows’ & Orphans’ Pension Fund /
Widowers’ & Orphans’ Pension Fund. You shall pay contributions to this fund as declared by the Government from time to
time.
7.  This appointment is subject to all conditions and provisions mentioned in the Service  Minute / Scheme of
Recruitment of ...........................................................for the post of..............................................................
8. Before the expiry of.......................years assumption of duties you shall prove that you have  acquired proficiency
in the second language in accordance with the policy of the Government. If you had qualified for this appointment in the
Sinhala Language your second language shall be Tamil. Similarly, if you had qualified for this appointment in the Tamil
Language your second language shall be Sinhala. Further, if you had qualified for this appointment in English you shall
acquire proficiency in either Sinhala or Tamil as the second language.
9.  The salary scale applicable to this appointment is as follows:.................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................You will
be placed on the salary step ........................... of the scale. You will also be entitled to other  allowances to public officers to be
determined by the Western Provincial Council as decided by the Government from time to time. However, you must pass the
first Efficiency Bar before you proceed beyond salary step ................................. the second Efficiency Bar before you proceed
beyond  salary step................................  and the third Efficiency Bar before you proceed beyond salary step ..................................as
stipulated in the Service Minute / Scheme of Recruitment. In case you fail to pass an Efficiency Bar within the prescribed
period your appointment will be terminated for inefficiency.
10. You should discharge your official responsibilities and obligations according to rules, regulations, orders and
procedures enacted by the Western Provincial Governor for the Western Provincial Public Service. Similarly, you shall be
subject to the Establishments Code, Financial Regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Western
Provincial Council, other regulations, circulars, instructions of the government and the Western Provincial Council and
amendments issued thereto from time to time.
11. You are bound to furnish security, by order of the Western Provincial Council, as per the Public Servants’
Securities Ordinance in such manner and sum as decided by the Head of Department.
12. In accordance with the official duties of your post you are liable to work on any day, any time, although under
normal circumstances you are liable to perform your duties within the period prescribed by the Authorities of the Western
Provincial Council.
13.  You are liable to discharge the official duties of this post anywhere in the Western Province on formal notice
given to you instantly or with due notice.
14. You should prove through a formal medical examination report before the expiry of three months from the
assumption of this appointment that you are mentally and physically fit to serve in any part of the Country. It shall be your
responsibility to ensure that this medical examination report is obtained through the medical officer in charge of a Government
Hospital on forms General 169 and Health 169.
15. You shall make the affirmation or take the oath in terms of Articles 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. If you fail to make affirmation or take oath during the period prescribed by law your
appointment shall cease at the expiry of such period.
16. You should duly extablished your identity before taking up this appointment
17.  As soon as you assume duties in your appointment you should submit a letter on the  prescribed form that you
have reported for duties.
10—PG 2329

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
34A
18. On the day itself that you assume duties you should submit the following documents  to...............................:-
i. Forms of Oath Affirmation in terms of Schedules 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the  Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
ii. Certified copy of your National Identity Card
iii. Birth Certificate
iv. Originals and a set of photocopies of educational, other educational and professional qualifications in support
of the required basic educational qualifications for the post (The originals will be returned after perusal)
v. Marriage certificate, if married: Birth Certificate of the spouse and, if there are any children, their Birth
Certificates
vi. Service Agreement on General 160
vii. Declaration of Assets on General 161
viii. Declaration of Assets and Liabilities, if applicable
ix. Address permanent and temporary
19. In case you want to resign from this post you must give one calendar month’s notice. You may also resign from
this post by paying the Western Provincial Council a sum equivalent to your month’s salary with the consent of the
Appointing Authority.
20. If the fact that you have submitted erroneous or false information or documents to obtain this appointment in the
Western Provincial Public Service is duly established at any stage after the assumption of this post by you, your appointment
will ,be treated null and void and the appointment revoked forthwith. Apart from that, action shall be taken in terms of Section
48 of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service.
21.  Please acknowledge receipt of this letter to................................................on form attached hereto,  and inform
whether you accept this appointment subject to the conditions stated herein.
Y ours Sincerely
Signature :.......................................
Name :..............................................
Designation :..................................
Copies
1. ..................................................................
2. ..................................................................
3. ..................................................................
4. ..................................................................
5. ..................................................................
6. Auditor General - for your information
*This paragraph shall be amended relevant to the service or post
APPENDIX 02 (a)
(Section 53 and 145)
My No. ........................
Address .............................
.............................................
.............................................
Date :....................................
Mr./Mrs./ Miss .....................
................................................
Sir/Madam

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
Appointment to the Post of...................................in the Department of
 ..............................on Contract Basis
I am pleased inform you that you are appointed to the Post of .................................... in the  Department of
..........................with effect from ...............................on the results of the competitive  examination held
on....................................professional test held on ..................... and the interview held  on....................................Accordingly
you are hereby informed to report to .......................at the  .................... at.................................a.m. I p.m. on the above date and
assume duties. If you fail to report for duty as above without a valid reason this appointment shall stand cancelled.
2.  You shall hold this post on public trust. You shall efficiently and diligently discharge the  duties of the post for
the benefit of the country and its people.
3.  You should be unreservedly loyal to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and  you are bound to treat
the duties of your post in the strictest confidence.
4.  You have no right to engage yourself in a job in any other institution or any other  profession as long as you are
in the Public Service.
5. This appointment is made solely on contract basis for a period of...................................Accordingly this appointment
will terminate on.......................................... This appointment may be terminated even before that date as the need demands.
6. You have no right whatever to request that you be made permanent in this post by virtue of your holding this
appointment which is made on contract basis. Similarly, your holding this post will not grant you any special rights to request
that you be appointed to another post in the Public Service on permanent basis.
7. You will be paid a monthly salary / allowance of Rs ..................................... (Rs .................................). Moreover, you
will be entitled during the effective period of this appointment to  the lawful privileges which an officer/employee permanently
appointed to this post is entitled.
8. You should discharge your official responsibilities and obligations according to rules, regulations, orders and
procedures enacted by the Western Provincial Governor and the Western Provincial Public Service Commission for the
Western Provincial Public Service. Similarly, you shall be subject to the Establishments Code, Financial Regulations of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, other government regulations, circulars, instructions and amendments issued
thereto from time to time.
9. In accordance with the official duties of your post, you are liable to work on any day, any time, although under
normal circumstances you are liable to perform your duties within the period prescribed by the Government.
10. You are liable to discharge the official responsibilities of this post anywhere in the Western Province on formal
notice given to you instantly or with due notice.
11. You shall make the affirmation or take the oath in terms of Articles 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. If you fail to make affirmation or take oath during the period prescribed by law your
appointment shall cease at the expiry of such period.
12. You should duly establish your identity before taking up this appointment.
13 As soon as you assume duties, you should submit a letter on the prescribed form that you have reported for
duties.
14. On the day itself that you assume duties you should submit the following documents to...............................

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
36A
i. Certified copy of your National Identity Card
ii. Certificate of Birth
iii. Originals and a set of photocopies of educational, other academic and professional qualifications in
support of the required basic educational qualifications for the post (The originals will be returned after
perusal)
iv. Marriage certificate, if married: Birth Certificate of the spouse and, if there are any children, their Birth
Certificates
v. Service Agreement on Gen.160
vi. Declaration of Assets on Gen.261
vii. Declaration of Assets and Liabilities, if applicable
viii. Address permanent and temporary
ix. Forms of Oath/Affirmation in terms of Schedules 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
15. Your appointment may be terminated at any stage by the Appointing Authority with one month’s notice:.
16. In case you want to resign from this post you must give one calendar month’s notice. You may also resign from
this post by paying the Western Provincial Council a sum equivalent to your month’s salary / allowance with the consent of
the Appointing Authority.
17. If the fact that you have submitted erroneous or false information or documents to obtain this appointment in the
Western Provincial Public Service is duly established at any stage after the assumption of these duties by you, your
appointment will be treated null and void and the appointment revoked forthwith.
18. Please acknowledge the receipt of this letter to...............................................on form attached hereto and inform
whether you accept this appointment subject to the conditions stated herein.
Y ours Sincerely
Signautre :.......................................
Name :..............................................
Designation :..................................
Copies
1. ..................................................................
2. ..................................................................
3. ..................................................................
4. ..................................................................
5. ..................................................................
6. Auditor General - for your information
APPENDIX    03
(Section 69)
Your No :.......................................
Name :.....................................
Address :................................
.................................................
Date :.......................................
........................................................
........................................................
........................................................
Sir

<!-- page 37 -->

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
Appointment to the Post of...................................in the Department of
 .............................................
This refers to your letter No. .....................................dated.......................
02. I hereby inform you that I agree to accept the appointment in the Western Provincial  Public Service offered to me
by the letter under reference subject to the conditions mentioned therein.
02. I hereby inform you that I do not wish to accept the appointment in the Western Provincial Public Service offered to
me and letter of appointment is returned herewith.
Yours faithfully,
............................
Signature.
APPENDIX 04
 (Section 72)
Name : .................................
Address:..............................
Date:......................................
To :.....................................................
Through : .........................................
Sir,
Reporting for Duty in the Post of ........................... in the
Department of ........................................
Reference letter No.......................................dated ....................................issued by........................................appointing me to the
post mentioned above.
02. I hereby conform that I reported for duty to................................on...........................to  discharge the
relevant duties and responsibilities subject to the conditions mentioned in the letter under reference.
                                                                                                                                             Yours faithfully,
Signature :..........................................
Name :.................................................
Designation   :...................................
(Appointing Authority)
.........................................
I hereby certify that (Mr./Mrs./Miss).................................................................................................... reported
for duty in the post of   ..................................................................................................... ........................at the office
of....................................on............................
Date.
Signature :.........................................................
Name: ................................................................
Designation: ....................................................
Official Stamp:......................................................
11—PG 2329

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
38A
APPENDIX 05
(Sections 87, 90 and 91)
Reference No. ............................................
Annual Review Report relating to officers subject  to a period of probation/acting
01. Particulars of the officer
1.1 Name of the Officer:
1.2 Designation:
1.3 Station:
1.4 Date of assumption of the appointment:
1.5 The date on which the probation / acting period will end : .
1.6 Period relevant to the Review:  From ................to..................... .
02. A brief description of the duties assigned to the officer
...................................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................................
0 3 Attendance
3.1 Does he attend office for duties at the due time or before? Yes / No
3.2 Does he habitually come late for  duties? Yes / No
3.3 Does he duly attend to his duties during office hours? Yes / No
3.4 Does he spend office time to attend to other extraneous matters? Yes / No
3.5 Leave particulars for the relevant period:
Casual Vacation Sick Half-pay No-pay
........................ ............................ ........................... ........................... ..................... ......
04 Discipline and Conduct
4.1 Discipline and conduct within the place of work Weak/ satisfactory/good/very good
4.2 Discipline and conduct outside office hours and place of work
Weak/satisfactory/good/very good
4.3 A brief description of disciplinary action taken against the officer during the relevant period:
...........................................................................................
...........................................................................................
...........................................................................................
5. Health
5.1 Was his physical health satisfactory? Yes /No
5.2 Was his mental health satisfactory? Yes I No
6. Performance of duties
6.1 Capability weak/satisfactory/good/very good
6.2 Efficiency weak/satisfactory/good/very good

<!-- page 39 -->

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
6.3 Dedication weak /satisfactory/good/very good
6.4 Diligence weak/satisfactory/good/very good
6.5 Neatness weak/satisfactory/good/very good
6.6 Courteousness weak/satisfactory/good/very good
6.7 Reliability weak/satisfactory/good/very good
6.8 Adherence to instructions weak /satisfactory/good/very good
6.9 Obedience weak /satisfactory/good/very good
6.10 Knowledge of laws, rules, procedures, regulations and circulars etc.
weak/satisfactory/good/very good
7. Any special skills shown
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
8. Any noticeable weaknesses shown
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
9. Particulars of passing over the efficiently bar
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
10. Paticulars about gaining proficiency in the Second language
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
11. Additional educational and professional qualifications obtained
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
12. Matters to be brought to the attention of the officer
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
13. Final conclusion on the officer after considering all the relevant factors:
weak/satisfactory/good/ very good
14. The conclusions of this Review Report were brought to the notice of the officer on ...............................................
(Immediately Supervising Staff Officer) (Head of Department/Institution)
Signature:................................................ Signature: .........................................................
Name: ..................................................... Name:.................................................................
Designation: .......................................... Designation: ....................................................
Date :....................................................... Date :............................................................ .....
15. The conclusions of this Review Report were brought to my notice on.............................................................................
(Officer)
Signature: .........................................................
Name:.................................................................
Designation: ....................................................
Date :.......................................................

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
40A
APPENDIX 06
(Section 86)
(Registered Post).
My No :........................ Address :.............................................
...............................................................
...............................................................
Date :....................................................
Mr./Mrs./Miss :..............................
(Designation)
.........................................................
Through :.......................................
Sir/Madam,
Termination of Appointment
You are hereby informed that your appointment which was subject to a period of probation is terminated with
immediate effect in terms of Section 86, V olume I of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission,
due to your failure to fulfill the requirements for confirmation in terms of Section 84 of the Procedural Rules.
2. Please settle all advances and loans taken by you from government/Western Provincial  Council before
...............................................Failure to do so will result in legal action being taken against you.
3.  Please duly hand over all Provincial Council properties, documents, keys, computer  passwords and official
identity card, etc. in your charge before Failure to do so will  result in legal action being taken against you.
Signature: .....................................
Name: .............................................
Post: ...............................................
Date :.....................
 Copies  :
1.Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission
2.Accountant
3.Auditor General
4.Personal file of the officer
APPENDIX    07
 (Section 93)
My No :........................ Address :.............................................
...............................................................
...............................................................
Date :....................................................
Mr./Mrs./Miss :..............................
(Designation)
.........................................................
Through :.......................................

<!-- page 41 -->

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
Termination of Appointment
You are hereby informed that your appointment which was subject to a period of acting is terminated with immediate
effect in terms of Section 93, V olume I of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission, due to
your failure to fulfill the requirements for confirmation in terms of Section 84 of the Procedural Rules.
2.  Accordingly you are hereby reverted to your former post. / form post on supernumerary  basis.
3.  Please duly hand over all government properties, documents, keys, computer passwords and official identity
card, etc in your charge before
Signature: .....................................
Name: .............................................
Post: ...............................................
Date :.............................
Copies:
1.Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission
2.Accountant
3.Former Appointing Authority
4.Auditor General
5.Personal file of the officer
APPENDIX 08
(Section 111)
My No :........................ Address :.............................................
...............................................................
...............................................................
Date :....................................................
Mr./Mrs./Miss :..............................
Post :...............................................
Through :.......................................
Notice of Promoting over the ..............................................Efficiency Bar
You are hereby informed that you have passed the.......................................Efficiency Bar mentioned in the
Service Minute /Scheme of Recruitment of the post of ..................................................... in ...........................................................
with effect from................................
Signature: .....................................
Name: .............................................
Post: ...............................................
 Copies :
1.
2.
3.
4. Personal File

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
42A
APPENDIX 09
(Section 116)
My No :........................ Address :.............................................
...............................................................
...............................................................
Date :....................................................
Mr./Mrs./Miss :..............................
..........................................................
Through :.......................................
Termination of Appointment
This is to inform you that your appointment as.............................................is deemed to have terminated with effect
from............................................... in terms of Section 114, Chapter 10 of  V olume I of Public Service Commission procedural
rules, as a result of your failure to pass the Efficiency Bar within the stipulated time.
02. Please settle all advances and loans taken by you from the government/Western Provincial  Council before
........................................................Failure to do so will also result in legal action being taken against you for the recovery of
such dues.
03. Please duly handover all Western Provincial Council properties, documents, keys, computer passwords and
official identity card, etc. in your charge before.......................................................  Failure  to do so will result in legal action
being taken against you.
Signature:...........................................
Name: .................................................
Post: ...................................................
Copies:
1.Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission
2.Accountant
3.Auditor General
4.Personal File of the Officer
APPENDIX 10
 (Section 131)
Address :.............................................
...............................................................
...............................................................
Date :....................................................
(Appointing Authority)
..........................................................
Through
..........................................................

<!-- page 43 -->

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
Request for permanent / temporary release from the Western Provincial Public Service
for service in the post of  ........................................in the.......................................
 1. Particulars of the officers :
1.1 Full Name: .......................................................................
1.2 Service:........................................Class: .........................................Grade: .......................................
1.3  Designation: ..............................................................
1.4 Station: .......................................................................
1.5 Department / Institution: ..........................................
1.6 Provincial Ministry:....................................................
1.7 The date on which the officer was confirmed in the Western Provincial Public Service:
1.8 Age as at the date of request: years: ..................................Months: .....................Days:..............
1.9 Whether or not the officer has passed all relevant efficiency bars / departmental tests by
the date the request is made: .
1.10 If the officer has received special training for discharging the duties of his present post, please give details.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
1.11 If the officer is under bond with the Western Provincial Council for a compulsory period of service, please give
details.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
1.12 Details of previous temporary releases from the Public Service/Provincial Public Service.
Institution Designation Period Y ears Months
..................... ............................. from .................to ..................... .........................
..................... ............................ from .................to ..................... .........................
..................... ............................ from .................to ..................... .........................
2. The post which the officer expected to serve after release
2.1 Institution:
2.2 Ministry:
2.3 Trade Union I Welfare Union:
2.4 Post:
2.5 Whether the request is for permanent or temporary release:
2.6 If temporary, for how long:
2.7 The proposed date of assumption of duties in the post:
3. I attach hereto a letter issued by.......................expressing willingness to appoint me to the  post
of...................................in the...............................................
3 I attach hereto a certified copy of the minutes of the..................................trade union I welfare union stating that I
have been selected for the post of.....................................in the said union and that it is necessary to get me tem porarily
released from the Western Provincial Public Service for service in the said post. I also attach hereto details about the number
of members registered in the said union and a copy of the approved constitution.
4. I certify that the matters stated by me above are true. This request is submitted in terms of Section 131 of V olume
1 of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission. Accordingly I request that I be permanently
temporarily released from the Western Provincial Public Service for service in the post of .......................................................
..............................................
Signature of the Officer.

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
44A
APPENDIX  11
 (Section 131)
My No................................. Address :..................................
(Appointing Authority) ...................................................
......................................... Date :........................................
Request for the release of an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service permanently / temporarily from his
present post on the need of the Government/ Western Provincial Public Service
1. Particulars of the Officer
1.1 Full Name:..........................................................................................................................................................
1.2 Service: ....................................................Class:..........................................Grade: ..........................................
1.3 Post:...................................................................................................................................................................
1.4 Station: ..............................................................................................................................................................
1.5 Department I Institution: ................................................................................................................................
1.6 Ministry: ...........................................................................................................................................................
2. The post proposed to be appointed after the release
2.1 Post:...................................................................................................................................................................
2.2 Salary Scale: ...................................................................................................................................................
2.3 Station: ..........................................................................................................................................................
2.4 Institution :......................................................................................................................................................
.
3. Proposed release
3.1 Whether permanent or temporary : ...........................................................................................................
3.2  If temporary, for how long:
For a period of ...............................................years from ................................................... to .............................
4. The request of the Institution seeking to employ the officer is attached as annex
5. The letter of consent by the officer is attached as annex.......................................
6. 25% of the consolidated salary of the officer as contribution to his pension and contributions to the Widows’ and
Orphans’ Pension Fund / Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund will be duly  paid by the ........................................................of
...................................................................which will employ the officer.
7. Accordingly I request that the above officer be released temporarily / permanently from the post he now holds in
the Western Provincial Public Service for appointment to the above post.
Signature: ............................................
Name:...................................................
Designation: .......................................
Ministry :  ..........................................
(By registered post)
APPENDIX 12
(Section 160)
My No :........................ Address :.............................................
...............................................................
...............................................................
Date :....................................................
Rev.Mr./Mrs./Miss :..............................
...................................................................
...................................................................

<!-- page 45 -->

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
Notice of Vacation of Post
You who were holding the post of ...................................in this Department have not  reported for duty
from..............................without duly approved leave.
02. Accordingly, you are hereby informed in terms of Section 160, V olume I of the Procedural Rules of the Western
Provincial Public Service Commission that you are deemed to have vacated your post on your own accord.
03.  Please settle all advances & loans taken by you from the Government/Western Provincial  Council before
...................................................................Failure to do so will also result in legal action being taken  against you for the recovery
of such dues.
04.  Please duly hand over all Western Provincial Council properties, documents, keys, computer passwords and
official identity card, etc. in your charge before .......................................Failure to do so will result in legal action being taken
against you.
05.  As a result of the vacation of your post you will forfeit the right to be reappointed to a post  in the Western
Provincial Public Service and the right to a pension or grant under the Minutes on Pension.
Signature:..................................
Name : ......................................
Designation:  ...........................
Copies:
1.Appointing Authority
2.Relevant Secretary to the Provincial Ministry
3.Auditor General
APPENDIX 13
 (Section 167 (i))
PART I
Address :.............................................
...............................................................
...............................................................
Date :....................................................
To :.............................................................................
Through ...................................................................
Request for Extension of Service in the Western Provincial Public Service beyond 57/58/59 years of Age
1. Full Name :.....................................................
2. Service: :.....................................................Class:.................................Grade: ..............................................................
3. Post: ................................................................
4. Date of Birth: ..................................................
5. Age on the next date of birth :...........................................years
6. Date of permanent appointment in the Western Provincial Public Service:
7. Period of Service in the Western Provincial Public Service on the next date of birth:
Years: ..........................................Months:...................................Days: ..................................

<!-- page 46 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
46A
I am physically and mentally in good health. At present there is/there is no disciplinary action initiated against me.
I wish to continue in the Western Provincial Public Service after the  completion of  .......................................................years of
age. I therefore request that my service be extended by one year  effective from..............................
Signature: ..................................
Name:.........................................
Post: .........................................
My No.........................................
PART II
(Appointing Authority)
..........................................
The applicant is an officer in Class......................Grade...........................of .....................Service who is  working in this
Department as ....................................
02. I recommend that his service be extended by one year from .........................................as he has fulfilled  the
requirements in Section 167 of the V olume I of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service Commission.
03  I do not recommend the extension of his service for the following reasons. Photo copies of  documents showing
such reasons are attached hereto.
......................................................................................................
......................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................
(Head of Department)
Signature : .....................................
Name : ............................................
Designation: ................................
Official Stamp: ...............................
03. Submitted for an  early decision
Date :.............................
APPENDIX 14
 (Section 198)
Your Ref.................................................. Address :.............................................
...............................................................
...............................................................
Date :....................................................
(Head of Department/Institution  :..............................................
Through ...................................................................
 Representations relating to Proposed Annual Transfer
I have been informed by your letter/proposed annual transfer Schedule No ........................... dated ..........................
that it is proposed to transfer me from  .................................... to.............................................
02. I kindly request under Section 198, V olume I of the Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Public Service
Commission that the proposed transfer be cancelled/varied on the basis of the following facts.

<!-- page 47 -->

47AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
2.1
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
2.2
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
2.3
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
03. Certified copies of following documents are attached in support of the above facts.
04. I request that I be transferred to one of the following work stations :
1 st preference .........................................................................................
2nd preference .........................................................................................
3rd preference .........................................................................................
.....................................
Signature
Copies :
1. Appointing Authority
2. Head of the Department
3. Head of the Institution
Recommendation of the Head of the Department/Institution
(Appointing Authority)
..........................................
I am satisfied/not satisfied that the facts mentioned above are correct. This request is recommended/not recommended.
Signature: ..................................
Name:.........................................
Designation :............................
Official Frank............................
Date :....................................
APPENDIX 15
(Section 214)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated Power on Appointment and Promotions
Serial Date Name of Service Post Whether the Whether it is a Signature of Signature
No. the Officer Class Appointment is Promotion Management of Staff
Grade Assistant Officer
in charge of and date
the subject
and date
Permanent On
Contract

<!-- page 48 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
48A
APPENDIX 16
(Section 214)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated Power on Officers dismissed from the Western Provincial
Public Service
Serial Name, Service Reasons for Date of File No. Other Matters Signature of Signature
No. Class, Grade, dismissal in Dismissal Management of the Staff
Post of the brief Assistant Officer
Officer in charge of and date
Subject and Date
APPENDIX 17
(Section 214)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated Power on Officers who have resigned from the Western
Provincial Public Serivce
Serial Name, Service Reasons for Date of File No. Other Matters Signature of Signature
No. Class, Grade, dismissal in Resignation Management of the Staff
Post of the brief Assistant Officer
Officer in charge of and date
Subject and Date
APPENDIX 18
(Section 214)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated Power on Officers who have vacated their posts
Serial Name, Service Date of Date  of   Other Matters Signature of Signature
No. Class, Grade, vacation the Notice Management of the Staff
Post of the of Post issued Assistant Officer
Officer in charge of and date
Subject and Date

<!-- page 49 -->

49AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
APPENDIX 19
(Section 214)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated Power on Interdicted Officers and on Officers on Compulsory
Leave
Serial Name, Service Whether Whether Reasons File Other Signature of Signature
No. Class, Grade, Interdiction Compulsory for such No. Matters Management of the Staff
Post of the Retirement action Assistant Officer
Officer in brief in charge of and date
Subject and Date
APPENDIX 20
(Section 214)
Register to be maintained by the Authority with Delegated Power on Officers who have retired from the Provincial
Public Serivce
Serial Name, Service Reasons of Date of File No. Other Matters Signature of Signature
No. Class, Grade, Retirement Retirement Management of the Staff
Post of the in brief Assistant Officer
Officer in charge of and date
Subject and Date
APPENDIX 21
(Section 215)
Biannual Report on changes of the Staff submitted by the Authority with Delegated Power to the Western Provincial
Chief Secretary - From.............................. to ..........................
New Appointments Number of Number Number Number Number Number Number on
Promotions dismissal Resigned V acated Retired interdicted Compulsory
Post Leave
Permanent Contract

<!-- page 50 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
50A
APPENDIX 22
(Section 216)
Register to be maintained by Office/Institution of the Western Provnicial Council on the Entire Staff
Serial Date on which Name and Leaving the Office Signature of Signature
No the Officer Designation Management of the Staff
reported for of the Assistant Officer
Service in the Officer in charge of and date
Office Subject and Date
Office Date
APPENDIX 23
 (Section 220)
Your Ref.................................................. Name with initials :.............................................
Address :..............................................................
...............................................................................
...............................................................................
Date :....................................................................
..............................................
(Relevant Authority)
Through  (Head of Department/Institutions)
...................................................................
..........................................................
Appeal made against the Appointment/Promotion/Transfer
01. Particulars of the officer
1.1 Full Name :.............................................................................
1.2 Service : ................................ Class :................................Grade : .................
1.3 Post : .......................................................................................
1.4 Station : ...................................................................................
1.5 Department/Institution  : .......................................................
1.6 Ministry :.................................................................................
02. Decision/Order on which the appeal is based :
2.1 Describe the decision/order briefly :
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
2.2 Who made the decision/order :
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 51 -->

51AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
2.3 The date on which the officer received the order :.............................................................
2.4 Certified copies of letters containing the decision/order are attached as annexes shown below :
Annex (1)......................................................................................................
Annex (2).......................................................................................................
2.5 Any other relevant matters :
.......................................................................................................................................
.......................................................................................................................................
.......................................................................................................................................
3. Reasons for making an appeal against the decision/order :
3.1 .................................................................................................................................
.......................................................................................................................................
3.2 .................................................................................................................................
.......................................................................................................................................
3.3 .................................................................................................................................
.......................................................................................................................................
3.4 .................................................................................................................................
.......................................................................................................................................
3.5 .................................................................................................................................
.......................................................................................................................................
3.6 Certified copies of written submissions to support the above reasons are attached as annexes shown below
Annex (1) ......................................................................................................
Annex (2) ......................................................................................................
Annex (3) ......................................................................................................
Annex (4) ......................................................................................................
4. Redress prayed for :
    ........................................................................................................................................
    ........................................................................................................................................
    ........................................................................................................................................
    ........................................................................................................................................
    ........................................................................................................................................
    ........................................................................................................................................
Signature:..................................
Name : ......................................
Designation:  ...........................
Date :...............................................
Copies:
1.Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission (This advance copy is kindly forwarded for necessary action)
02- 19
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.