

<!-- page 1 -->

157 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.09.09
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
wxl 1"984- 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'09'09
No. 1,984 – FRIDAY SEPTEMBER  09, 2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... 158
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th September, 2016, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th
September 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
B. K. S. R A VINDRA
Government Printer (Acting ).
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
21st June 2016.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www. documents. gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
157
Note.– Medical (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka of June 10, 2016
N. B. - Part IV A of the Gazette No. 1983 of 02.09.2016  was not Published.

<!-- page 2 -->

158  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.09.09
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
Miscellaneous Notices
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE NATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL FORUM (NEF)
I, Dr. Jayampathi Wickramaratne, Member of Parliament, do
hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 48 (1) of the
Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill entitled "An act
to incorporate the Nations Environmental Forum (NEF).
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Nations
Environmental Forum (NEF) which has the following general
objects :-
1. To review periodically the progress achieved in the field
of environment and suggest appropriate actions :-
2. To popularize and promote programs on domestic food
security, domestic waste management systems and use
of alternative energy sources ; also facilitate and transfer
of cost effective technologies on environmental
conservation and help relevent Government institutes ;
3. To conserve natural, biological and non - biological
resources; protect and promote indigenous knowledge
and technology and cultural heritage of Sri Lanka, and
help relevant Government institutes ;
etc.
Dr. J
AYAMPATHI WICKRAMARATNE,
Member of Parliament.
09-249
ADVERTISEMENT OF PETITION
In the High Court of the Western Province
(Exercising Civil Jurisdiction) Holden in Colombo
In the Matter of Kaleels Maradana Nursing
Home (Private) Limited of No. 193,1st
Division, Maradana, Colombo 10.
and
In the matter of an application under Part
XII of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007.
Dr. M. Nawaz Kaleel of  No. 2136, Kincaid
Way, Sacramento, California 95825, U. S. A.
(Appearing by his Power of Attorney,
Husain Imtiaz Muhsin No. 01, Rajasinghe
Road, Colombo 06)
....................... Petitioner
vs.
Kaleels Maradana Nursing Home (Private)
Limited,
No. 193, 1st Division, Maradana,
Colombo 10.
................................. Respondent
NOTICE is hereby given that a petition for the winding up of
the above-named Company by the High Court of the Western
Province sitting in Colombo (In the exercise of its Civil
Jurisdiction) was on the 2nd day of August 2016, presented to
the said Court by Dr. M. Nawaz Kaleel of No. 2136, Kincaid
Way, Sacramento, California 95825, U. S. A. and the said
petition is directed to be heard before the said Court on the
01st day of November 2016 and any creditor or contributory
of the said Company desirous to support or oppose the making
of an order on the said petition may appear at the time of
hearing in person or by his Counsel or Registered Attorney
for that purpose and a copy of the petition will be furnished to
any creditor or contributory  of the said company requiring
the same by the undersigned on payment of the prescribed
charge for the same :-
Nithi Murugesu Associates,
Registered Attorneys for the Petitioner,
No. 28, (Level 2) W.A. D. Ramanayake
Mawatha, Colombo 02.
Note.- Any person who intends to appear on the hearing of
the said petition must serve on or send by post to the
above-named Attorneys-at-Law, M/s. Nithi Murugesu
Associates notice in writing of his intention so to do.The
notice must state the name and address of the person, or if a
firm the name and address of the firm and must be signed by
the person or firm, or his or their Registered Attorneys, if any,
and must be served, or if posted, must be sent by post in
 H. C. (Civil) Case
No. 37/2016/Co.

<!-- page 3 -->

159 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.09.09
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2016
sfficient time to reach the above-named not later than 6’00
clock in the afternoon of the 31st of October 2016.
Nithi Murugesu Associates,
Registered Attorrneys
for the Petitioner.
09-377
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE LAFEER
FOUNDATION
I, A. A. Aluthgamage do hereby give notice under Standing
Order No. 48 (1) of the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament
a Bill entitled  zzAn Act to Incorporate the Lafeer FoundationZZ.
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said foundation
which has the following general objects :-
1. To improve the education of children,
2. To promote peace among communities,
3. To participate in the development of the Country,
etc.
A. A. A
LUTHGAMAGE.
Member of Parliament,
Mahanuwara District.
09-206