

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2013
903
903
wxl 1"811 - 2013 uehs 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'05'17
No. 1,811 – FRIDAY , MAY 17, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 906
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 909
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th June, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd May,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in July to September, 2010 has been pubilshed in Part V of this Gazette.
Note .— (i) Fiscal Management (Responsibility) (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(ii) Kandyan Marriage and Divorce (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(iii) Economic Service Charge (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2013
904
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2013
905
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2013
906
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule he reto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th Jun e, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
23rd April, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Ratmalana Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Ratmalana Area of Colombo Division General, District Secretariat,
Dam Street, Colombo 02.
05–313
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule he reto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2013
907
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th Jun e, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
29th April, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matara Thihagoda Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Gangabadapattuwa and Births and General, District Secretariat,
Deaths of Watagedara Division Matara.
05–451
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule he reto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2013
908
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th Jun e, 2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
29th April, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Kalutara Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Katukurunda Area in Kalutara and General, District Secretariat,
Panadura Totamuna Division Kalutara
05–382
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule he reto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th Jun e, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
29th April, 2013.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2013
909
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Akurana Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Harispattuwa Udagampaha No. 03 General, District Secretariat,
Division Kandy
05–450
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY (FORMER
TECHNICIAN TRAINING INSTITUTE) - KATUNAYAKE
RECRUITMENT OF SPECIAL APPRENTICES IN ENGINEERING FOR NA TIONAL
DIPLOMA IN ENGINEERING SCIENCES (NDES) COURSE - 2013 BATCH
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit
Special Apprentices in Engineering for the 2013 batch in respect of
the above course of studies at the Institute of Engineering
Technology (IET), Katunayake (Former Technician Training
Institute).
1. Educational Qualification for Entry :
Candidates with qualifications mentioned below are eligible
to apply.
1.1 A Pass at the GCE (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects in
one sitting including four (04) credit passes for
Mathamatics, Science, Language, (Sinhala/Tamil) and
English.
and
1.2 Passes at the GCE (A/L) in Combined Mathematics,
Physics and Chemistry in One sitting.
or
1.3 Passes at the GCE (A/L) in Combined Mathematics,
Physics and Information Technology in One sitting.
2. Age.– Between 18 and 25 years as at 01.11.2013.
3.Duration and Course Schedule. – This is a four year course,
where the 24 month academic instruction Programme is sandwiched
with the 24 Month Industrial Training as given below :-
Basic Instruction Programme at IET - 12 Months
Basic Industrial Training in Industry - 06 Months
General Instruction Programme at IET - 06 Months
General Industrial Training in Industry - 12 Months
Specialized Instruction Programme at IET - 06 Months
Specialized Industrial Training in Industry - 06 Months
Instruction Programmes consist of theoretical Instructions and
course works conducted at Institute of Engineering
Technology.
Industrial Training Programmes are conducted at recognized
Industrial Establishments.
An English course will be conducted during the course period.
Participation is compulsory for all the selected apprentices
for the English course.
4. Courses conducted in the IET are as follows  :–
A. Civil Engineering Sector :
1. Building and Structural Engineering.
2. Highway and Railway Engineering
3. Water and Environmental Engineering.
B. Electrical Engineering Sector :
4. Electronics and Communication Systems Engineering.
5. Electrical Power Engineering
6. Industrial Elelcrical and Control Systems Engineering.
C. Mechanical Engineering Sector :
8. Industrial Engineering
9. Mechatornic Engineering
10. Automotive Engineering
11. Marine Engineering
(a) The Quality Managment System of Marine Engineering
(No.11) Course of IET is in accordance with the
requirements of ISO 9001-2008.
(b) In respect of Marine Engineering Course, the Institute is
engaged in providing academic instructions and industrial
training Programmes to meet the mandatory requirements
for knowledge, understanding and proficiency in Marine

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2013
910
Engineering at the operational level related with STCW
95, including its amendments and model course 7.04 of
International Maritime Organization (IMO) coverage.
5. Medium of Instruction .– All academic programmes are
conducted in English
6. Contract of Apprenticeship :
6.1 Each selected candidate is required to enter into a contract
with the training establishment which casts, mutual
obligations on both the training establishment and the
Apprentice. At the time of registration an apprentice
should deposit a sum of Rs. 5000, refundable at the
completion of the course.
The deposit of the students, leaving the programme during
the course period, will not be refunded.
6.2 Sumurdhi beneficiaries are exempted from the refundable
deposit, on submission or original Sumurdhi card with a
certified letter from Grama Sevaka approved by
Divisional Secretary.
6.3 All selected students will have to make a compulsory
payment of Rs. 1000 as a non refundable library
development fund.
6.4 There is no guarantee of employment at the end of the
training period.
6.5 All the students registered for the above courses, should
maintain a minimum requirement of 80% attendance for
each subject during the course period. Those who fail to
meet this requirement, are not allowed to sit for the
examination and evaluations and they have to leave the
course.
7. Award of Certificates.– National Diploma in Engineering
Sciences Certificate will be awarded on successful completion of all
examinations, evaluations and on clearance of all obligations.
8. Selection Criteria :
8.1 All applicants who have the minimum entry
qualifications as stated in para 1 and within the age limit
mentioned in para 2 above, would be eligible. Selections
will be done as given below.
8.2 Those candidates who are eligible as per 8.1 will be
required to sit for a written aptitude test in English
medium. (Eligible candidates will be informed in advance)
8.3 All applicants are selected, based on the written test,
interview and the 'Z" score.
8.4 Those who are selected for Marine Engineering Course
will have to appear for a medical test at their own expense
prior the to registration.
8.5 Field selection will be given, based on the semester - I
examination of BIP programme after six months, and the
choice of the student.
9. Applications :
9.1 Applications and additional information can be obtained
from IET web site (www.iet.edu.lk)
9.2 Application forms could be collected from the Registrar,
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road,
Katunayake on payment of Rs. 150 in cash, or by post
by sending a money order for Rs. 150 with a self -
addressed stamped envelope (size 9" x 4") to Registrar,
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road,
Katunayake up to 17th June 2013. The above Money
Orders should be drawn in favour of the Accountant,
Institute of Engineering Technology, payable at
Katunayake Post Office. (011-2252833, 011-2252834)
9.3 Application forms could be obtained from the following
offices up to 17th May 2013 on payment of Rs. 150 in
cash.
(i) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura
Mawatha, Welikada, Rajagiriya. 011-2863680 -
011-2867435
(ii) Apprenticeship Training Institute, No. 581, Galle
Road, Katubedda Moratuwa. 011-2647393
(iii) Automobile Engineering Training Institute, No. 07,
Danister De Silva Mawatha, Orugodawatta,
Wellampitiya. 011-2572977, 011-2532182
(iv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 4/10, Malwatta Road, Badulupitiya,
Badulla 055-2230644
(v) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, School Lane, New Town Ratnapura.
045-2228667
(vi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 27A, Open University Road, Nupe,
Matara, 041-2226958
(vii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 108/2B, ThiwankaBodhi Mawatha,
Kandy, 081-2201918
(viii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Airport Road, Anuradhapura. 025-
2223178
(ix) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa,
Kurunegala. 037-2223789
(x) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 07, Kovil Road, Jaffna, 021-
2222383
(xi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No.06, G S lane, Kalmunaikudi 13,
Kalmunai. 067-2229357

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2013
911
(x) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No.07, Kovil Road, Jaffna, 021-
2222383
(xi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No.06, G S Lane, Kalmunaikudi 13,
Kalmunai, 067-2229357
(xii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority No. 242, Havelock Road,  Colombo 05.
011-2597671/2
(xiii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Telecommunication and Computer
Training Centre, Beruwala, 034-2279710.
(xiv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority No. 56 Ananda Mawatha, Gampaha.
033-2227501
(xv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Medagama Road, Molawatte,
Madampe. 032-2248250
(xvi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, A/6, Mahaweli Quarters, New Town,
Polonnaruwa. 027-2223023
(xvii) National Aprrentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Registrar Office, Monaragala.
055-2276504
(xviii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority No. 160/A, Kandy Road, Nuwara Eliya.
052-2223702
(xix) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 11, Temple Road, Mandandawala,
Matale. 066-2223173
(xx) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 440, Meepitiya, Kandy Road,
Kegalle. 035-2223127
(xxi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Wakwella Road, Julgaha, Galle.
091-223466
(xxii)National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 36, Mihindu Mawatha, Tangalle.
047-2241512
(xxiii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Thunukkai, Mulathiw 021-3734849
(xxiv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Jaffna Road, Nandapuram, Kilinochchi.
034-3942824
(xxv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 57, Post Office Road, Trincomalee.
026-2226569
(xxvi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 16/1/1, New Kalmuni Road,
Batticaloa. 065-2228130
(xxvii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 26/2, Pitaraum Road,
Sinthamanipillear Kovil, Vavuniya. 024-2224679
(xviii) National Apprentice and Industrial  Training
Authority, No. 25, Main Road, Mannar.
034-3942823.
9.4 All applicants should pay a non refundable examination
fee of Rs. 500 as per the details of (9.5) to any branch of
People's Bank and Paying slip need to the attached to
the application, when forwarding the application.
9.5 The Pay - in -Slip needs to be duly perfected with the
following :
(i) Branch Code and  Account No. 276-1-001-2-
4535909
(ii) Credit Instruction : To the Credit of National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
Collection Account No. 276-1-001-2-4535909 at
People's Bank, Katunayake.
(iii) Name and the Address of the Applicant.
9.6 Students, obtaining applications from IET Website, have
to pay Rs. 650 as the Examination fee.
9.7 Duly filled application forms, should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Director/Principal, Institute
of Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake
along with the Pay - in- Slip duly signed by and
Authorized officer of the Bank, on or before 17th June
2013. "Recruitment of Special Apprentices - 2013"
should be mentioned in the left hand corner. Late
applications or applications forwarded by hand will not
be accepted.
9.8 Those who have followed or are following Diploma or
Degree level full time courses of studies in a Government
Technical  Institute or University are not eligible to apply.
9.9 Orginals or copies of certificates should not be sent along
with the application.
9.10 Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
10. The Institute of Engineering Technology will not consider or
be responsible for any delay or loss of applications in the mail.
Therefore, the candidates are requested to post their applications
well ahead in time to avoid delays.
Chairman,
National Apprentice and
Industrial Training Authority.
N0.971, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
05-353
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.