

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
1
1
wxl 1"844 - 2014 ckjdß 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'01'03
No. 1,844 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 03, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 3
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th January, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th
January, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,843 of 27.12.2013 was not published.
N.B.–  Study Centre for the Advancement of Technology and Social welfare (Incorporation) Bill is published as a
supplement  to the  part II of the  Gazette of the  Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka  of December  06, 2013.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
3
Posts – Vacant
SRI   LANKA   RAILWAY   DEPARTMENT
Recruitment of Sub-station Masters for the Department of
Railways on Contract Basis - 2013
APPLICATIONS are called for the following Sub Railway Stations
where the vacancies are available in the posts of Sub-station
Masters who are recruited on the contract basis in the Department
of Railways :-
01. Tellwatta, 37. Thiruktheeswaram,
02. Unawatuna, 38. Thoddaweli,
03. Gammana, 39. Anuradhapura New Town,
04. Arukwatte, 40. Paper Town,
05. Investment Promotion Zone, 41. Thummodara,
06. Thudella, 42. Walakumbura,
07. Boralessa, 43. Devapuram,
08. Kakkapalliya, 44. Parakumpura,
09. Pulichcha Kulama, 45. Magalegoda,
10. Rajgama, 46. Paiyagala-North,
11. Dematagoda, 47. Hathareskotuwa,
12. Kadugoda, 48. Andadola,
13. Udahamulla, 49. Poonewa,
14. Bujjomuwa, 50. Arachchikattuwa,
15. Pangiriwatta, 51.Kota Road,
16. Battuluoya, 52. Ahungalla,
17. Kataluwa, 53. Kithal Ella,
18. Sarasavi Uyana, 54. Kumarakanda,
19. Horiwila, 55. Akurala,
20. Udaththawela, 56. Koshinna,
12. Kandegoda, 57. Panaliya,
22. Hettimulla, 58. Parakum Uyana,
23. Eluthumattuwal, 59. Wilawatta,
24. Mirisuvil, 60. Daraluwa,
25. Nawinna, 61. Pallethalawinna,
26. Habaraduwa, 62. Maha Induruwa
27. Meesalai, 63. Panagoda,
28. Sankaththanai, 64. Manuwangama,
29. Thachchanthoppu, 65. Pinnawala,
30. Pungankulam, 66. Koralawella,
31. Kokuvil, 67. Madagama,
32. Inuvil, 68. Uggalla,
33. Mallakam, 69. Nelumpokuna,
34. Thellipallai, 70. Sawarana,
35. Mavittapuram, 71. Meegammana.
36. Mathotam,
01. Details on duty of Sub Station Masters :
Issue of tickets throughout 24 hours according to the trains that
are stopped in that particular station by the representatives who
are engaged in service as the in-charge of the stations of issued of
tickets accept dispatch and delivery of those parcels to the owners,
remittance of daily cash to the Chief Accountant in Railways, keeping
that place clean and performing other opportune duties that the
General Manager in Railways assigns.
02. Allowances.– This post is not belonged to the permanent
employee cadre. The selected ones will be paid only a commission
based on the revenue of that particular station and the approved
allowances. The amount of minimum commission is Rs. 310 and
besides the Commission it will be paid Rs. 5,329.
03. It can be applied only by male applicants and one applicant
should apply for only one sub-station in his application. When it is
mentioned more than one, the sub-station mentioned firstly is
considered as the applied sub railway station.
04. Age limit.– It should not be below the age of 18 years and not
over 45 years on the closing date of applications. (03.02.2014).
05. Educational qualifications. – It should be passed 6 subjects
at once in the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with credits
for four subjects including Sinhala/Tamil/English and Mathematics.
06. Other qualifications :
(i) The applicant should be a permanent resident with 05
years on the approximate distance within 20 Kms (direct
distance) from the relevant Sub Railway Station. This
should be certified by provable documents before award
of the attachment letter. (Grama Niladhari Certificate,
the certificate of the Divisional Secretary, a copy of the
Electoral Roll).
(ii) Applicants should be Sri Lankan Citizens.
(iii) Persons who are currently serving as a Sub-station Master
or has terminated the service are not entitled to apply
for it.
(iv) It will be selected after the confirmation of general
physical fitness and eye sight. It is compulsory to be a
person with qualification and good eye sight.
07. Mode of Selection.– It will be selected on merit in the written
competition examination, held by the General Manager in Railways.
All the applicants should provide answers for two papers under
the following subjects at the written competition examination. It
should be scored 40% minimum by each subjects to be qualified at
the examination :-
(i) Language ability :
Time - 01 Hour, 100 Total Marks.
This is a paper measuring comprehension and handling
of the accurate language.
(ii) General Intelligence :
Time : 01 hour - 100 Total Marks.
Answers should be provided within the paper. This is
a multiple choice question paper that measures capacity
of decision making through the responses to problems
in numerical, verbal contexts, matching tables, note
pictures graphs.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
4
Note :
(i) The applicant who scored the highest marks out of the
qualifiers at the competitive examination are called for
an interview for the consideration of appointment for
the relevant tickets issue station according to these
tickets issue stations.
(ii) It will not be offered marks at the interview.
(iii) When there are qualifiers with equal marks the applicant
who has served as an approved substitute under the
Railway Tickets issue representative or the Sub-station
Master, will be given the opportunity. If it is not in
that way it will be selected the most nearest resident
from the relevant tickets issue station.
08. Conditions of Engaging in Service :
(a) The selected applicants should deposit a security
gurantee of Rs. 25,000 minimum or as decided by the
General Manager in Railways in favour of the General
Manager of Railways and should Act as per the conditions
in the agreement, that will be signed with the General
Manager in Railways. Breach of conditions in that
agreement will be a cause to the termination of service.
(b) This is contract basis and the agreement should be renewed
annually. The agreement will be cancelled when it is not
renewed.
(c) The selected applicant must undergo a training of 14
days from a railway station as directed by the General
Manager in Railways in order to acquire a knolwedge of
duties of the station, he is attached. No any allowance is
paid for this training period.
(d) The Sub Station Master may seek the approval of the
Department of Railways to train an assistant by him to
assist and act for him in his duties and the substitute will
not be paid any allowance by the Department. The full
responsibility of the station is with the Sub-station
Master.
(e) If it is found that the applicant has furnished information
with knowledge that they are false or invalid during the
training period or at the interview or at any other
occasion, it will be terminated his service with immediate
effect without a prior notice and payment of
compensation.
(f) The Department is not bound to offer any permanent
post in the Department of Railways for an applicant
who is selected as a Sub-station Master.
09. Terms of Service:
(i) If it is breached one condition or more in the agreeement
that will be signed his appointment will be terminated
with immediate effect.
(ii) It shiould be agreed to follow provisions and regulations,
enacted by the General Manager in Railways by time to
time.
10. Examination Fees. - The fee of Rs. 500 is non refundable.
The money order, paid in favour of General Manager in Railways,
Post Office, Maradana, should be attached and send with the
application. Payment of Examination fee in any other way will be
a cause to reject the application. Incomplete or informal applications
will be rejected without prior notice. Applicants who sit for the
examination should prove their identity at the examination centre.
11. Submission of Applications. - The application should be
prepared by the candidate himself on paper of size (A4). The
words "Application for the Examination of Sub Station Masters -
Applying Railway Station" should be clearly indicated in the top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. The
application should be sent by registered post to reach the General
Manager in Railways, P. O. Box 355, General Manager's Office,
Colombo 10 on or before 03.02.2014 (the specimen application
form is as follows).
12. Attestation of the Application.- Candidate's signature in the
application form should have been attested by a Principal of a
Government School/a Justice of the Peace/Commissioner of oaths/
Attorney-at-Law/Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/An
Officer holding a Gazetted Post on the Police Service or an officer
holding a permanent post in Public Service whose annual initial
salary is more than Rs. 237,060.
B. A. P. A
RIY ARATHNA,
General Manager in Railways.
General Manager's Office,
Colombo 10.
SRI LANKA RAILWAY DEPARTMENT
THE SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM FOR THE POST OF SUB-STATION
MASTER ON CONTRACT BASIS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF RAILWAYS
01. The Sub-Railway Station, applied :
(i) Full name :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(iii) Name with initials (in English) :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent Residential Address :
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––––.
(ii) In English :––––––––––––.
(iii) T elephone No. (Home) :––––––––––––.
(Mobile) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
5
03.  Date of birth :––––––––––.
Age on 03.02.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
04. National Identity Card Number :
05. District :
06. Divisional Secretariat :
Grama Niladhari Division :
07. Distance from your permanent residential place to the Sub
Railway Station, that you apply : (Direct Distance) Mention
in Kms. :––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications :
G . C. E. (Ord./Level) :
Year and Index Number Subject Grade
09. Other qualifications :––––––––––––.
10. Language medium of examination (Sinhala/Tamil/English) :
––––––––––––.
11. If you were charged in a Court of Law, quote details :––––––.
12. The original copy of the money order bearing the No. ................
Which was received by payment of Rs. 500 to the post office
.................... has been attached.
13. Declaration of the applicant :
(a) I certify that all the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained here are
found to be false or before my appointment, my candidature
will be rejected and if it is reveled after the appointment it
will be subject to termination of my service.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
14. Attestation of the signature of the Applicant :
I personally know Mr. .......................... bearing the Identity
Card Number .......................... and I attest that he placed his signature
in my presence.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Please put the official frank).
01-98
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Police Constable Driver (Special Task Force)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Recruit Police Special Task Force Constable Driver in the
Sri Lanka Police Department, directly.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by Registered Post to
the above mentioned address to reach on or before 31.01.2014 and
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Delayed applications will
be rejected and no applications will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary scale.– Rs. 171,360 -7x1,740 - 10x2,160 -17x2,880 -
Rs. 254,100.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
monthly allowances :
Rs. cts.
(a) Arduous duty allowance 2,000 0
(b) Combined allowance :
(1) For performance of duties in 10,500 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance  duties in other areas 8,400 0
(c) Other allowances :
(1) Uniform cleaning allowance 250 0
(2) Civil cloth allowance 200 0
(3) Incentive allowance 1,500 0
(4) 25% of the basic salary will be paid as
special allowance

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
6
(a) Free transport facilities.
(b) Free Medical facilities to officers  (Financial
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment
even in a foreign country.).
(c) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(d) Facilities to improve skills and talents in sports.
(e) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be
granted as rewards for outstanding and arduous
duties.
04. Basic qualifications :
(a) Age limits. – The age should be between 19 and 26
years as at closing date as per the Gazette Notification.
However Security Assistants who are serving in the
Police Department are eligible to apply up to the age
of 30 years as at the closing date of applications.
(b) Educational qualifications :
* Should have passed 06 subjects in the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination in not more than 2 sittings.
Note.– 01. According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in determining the
Number of subjects passed at G . C. E. (O/L)
both passes in Science subjects Number 41 and
44 will be treated as one subject and both passes
in Mathematics Number 42 and 45 will be treated
as one subject.
Note.– 02. Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
Note.– 03. Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of
G. C. E. (O/L) syllabus passes in any of these
subjects will not be computed as a pass in the
G. C. E.  (O/L) Examination.
(c) Physical requirements :
  * Height 05 feet 03 inches (minimum).
  * Chest 30 inches Minimum (in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided that they have
skills in sports or have achieved best performance in
sports at national level or they have earned reputation
for Sri Lanka by participating in an international
competition.
(d) Professional qualifications :
(i) Certificate of competence in driving light or heavy
vehicles.
(ii) At least, one year experience in driving motor vehicles
after obtaining the above certificate.
Note :– Priority will be given for knoweldg of motor
mechanism, experience in repairs of vehicles and long
term experience in driving vehicles.
* If any applicant has deformity or any other physical
disability which impedes movement of physical limb
required for competence in driving will be
disqualified, although he has obtained a medical
certificate to the effect that he is fit for service.
* The applicants who have basic qualifications will
be tested for their ability for driving and maintaining
vehicles. Their knowledge of road rules and traffic
signals and basi knoweldge of mechanical theories
of the vehicle in which the appliant has achieved
competence in driving will also be tested.
(e) Vision requirement.– Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 with one eye and
6/18 with the other eye will be accepted. Colour vision
should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or
contact lenses will not be eligible for being selected for
service.
(f) Other qualifications :
Applicants should be unmarried.
5. Method of recruitment.– Selected applicants will have to pass
the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department of Police.
Only those who have passed this test can participate in the physical
fitness test or endurance test and should pass that test :
1,000 meters 03 minutes 44 seconds
Only those who are successful in the test will be summoned
for final interview. Only those who score 40% or more will
be summoned for the professional test.
6. Professional qualifications :
6.1 Professional test will be conducted by the Assistant
Director of Police Driving School under the supervision
of the Director, Sri Lanka Police College.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
7
6.2 100 marks have been allocated for the professional test.
The test will be conducted as follows :–
(a) Competence in driivng vehicles - 50 marks
(b) Road rules manual - 25 marks
(c) Knowledge on maintenance of vehicles and ability to
attend to minor repairs - 25 marks.
6.3 Professional Test.– Applicants who obtain a minimum of
25 out of the maixmum marks of 50 allocated to the
eligibility of driving vehicle, a minimum of 12.5 out of the
maximum marks of 25 allocated to the knowledge on the
road rules manual, a minimum of 12.5 out of the maximum
marks of 25 allocated to the maintenance and attending to
minor repairs, thus obtaining a total of 50 out of total
marks of 100 allocated will be considered as having passed
the professional test. Only the candidates who pass the
professional test will be invited for the interview.
Note.– Police constable Drivers who are recruited should
obtain certificates to drive heavy vehicles and pass
the Heavy Vehicle Driving Test conducted by the
Police College before the end of probation period.
7. Medical Examination .– Applicants selected as per the list of
priority and order of merit should pass a Medical Examination
prior to the appointment. Unsuccessful candidates will be rejected.
8. Background Inquiries  :
(a) Inquiries will be made on the conduct of the applicant,
close relations and friends. Applicants with  bad conduct
will not be recruited.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.
9. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
y As per the Public Administration Circular, No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Public Service with effect from
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they enter the service.
y Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the Language Test Secondary Level conducted by the
Official Language Department.
y The salary increments of the officers who do not acquire
the specific proficiency in the second official language
within a period of 05 years from the date of their
appointments will be deferred until they obtain
qualifications.
10. Terms of Engagement. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows’/Widowers’
and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
11. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subjected to a three year probation
period.
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any regulation already made or made hereinafter to give
effect to the official language policy.
(c) They will be subjected to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code V olume I and II, Financial
Regulations, Departmental Orders Police Disciplinary
Code and any other orders that may be issued by the
Inspector General of Police or by the Government from
time to time.
(d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be required
to pass the prescribed Departmental Examinations. Those
who fail to pass the prescribed examinations or found to
be unfit for Poilce duties will be liable for removal from
the Police Service.
(e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said rank without the permission of the
Inspector General of Police. However, in terms of P. G . II
No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and I.G .P .’s Circular
No. 1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and Circular (Amended)
dated 09.08.2007, it is possible to marry showing special
reasons and with the permission of Inspector General of
Police.
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a recruit period of three years in the Police
Department and if they wish to resign from service before
their recruit period is over, they should sign an agreement
of consent to the effect that they are willing to pay at the
time of tendering their resignation, any amount which
was incurred on the training and uniforms etc., together
with any other prescribed payments. Director of Police
Training College
 will decide it having calculated dues from
the applicants. The acceptance of resignation should
conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of V olume I of the
Establishments Code, 1985.
(g) Immediately after recruit 
Police Constable Drivers have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,
they should subscribe affirmation/oath to the effect that
they comply with the Police Disciplinary Code in terms
of the I. G . P.’s Circular No. 1693/2003.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
8
(h) Immediately after Recruit Police Constable Drivers have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,
They should subscribe the Oath of allegiance to the Public
service, in terms of the I. G. P.’s Circular, No. 1804/2004.
(i) Recruit Police Constable Drivers who have been confirmed
in the post will have opportunities for promotions in
terms of the approved scheme of promotions of the Police
Department.
12. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointments to the posts in the Public Service
published in the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular, No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
13. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their applications (originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not related) ;
(iii) Certificate in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificate in support of any outstanding sports or other
extra curricular activates ;
(v) Certificates regarding experience in service (if available) ;
(vi) A photostat copy of the National Identity Card ;
(vii) A photostat copy of the valid driving licence.
14. (a) Applicants who are already in the Public Service must
forward their applications through the Heads of their
respective departments and must be accompanied by a
certificate stating that the officers can be released, if
selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the copies of certificates called for, to the
address given in paragraph 2 and under no circumstances
should applications be handed over personally to any
officer in the Department.
15. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
P
OST OF RECRUIT POLICE CONSTABLE DRIVER (SPECIAL TASK FORCE)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Copy of the NIC should be attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police Station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(d) Police station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) Police Station to which the electorate belongs :––––––.
(f) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent address
belongs :–––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––.
(g) Telephone Number (Residence) :–––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are a citizen by birth or registration :–––––.
(If by registration, attach copies of certificate)
(c) If you are citizen by birth, state the place of birth :
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great grandfather :––––––––.
07. Date of birth :––––––––––. (Copy of the birth certificate should
be attached)
Age : (As at the closing date of application as stated in the
Gazette):
Years :––––––––– Months :––––––––– Days :–––––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
Chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (State examination passed and attach
copies of certificates) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
9
10. ( a) Driving Licence No. :––––––––––.
(b) Date of issue :––––––––––.
(c) Classes competent to drive :––––––––––.
(Attach a photostat copy of the driving licence)
11. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.
12. Whether married or unmarried :––––––––––.
13. (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
(ii) Are you a member of any armed forces ? :––––––––––.
14. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications :––––––.
15. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant  :
(i) ––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––.
16. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Reserve Police
Service or Regular Police Service ? (If so give reference) :
––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the
Sri Lanka Reserve Police Service before ? (If so under
what circumstances did you leave the service ? Give
details) : ––––––––––.
17. Are you a member of the Sri Lanka Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and number. Attach a copy of the
appointment letter :––––––––––.
18. ( a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
service Commander) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
19. ( a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ?
(If so, your application must be submitted through the
respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed service ?
:––––––––.
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificate)
20. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
21. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence ? (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false, I am aware that I am liable for
immediate termination of my service in the Police Department at
any time even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
01–49/1
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Police Constable (Special Task Force)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Police Special Task Force Constable in the Sri Lanka Police
Department, directly.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by Registered Post to
the above mentioned address to reach on or before 31.01.2014  and
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Delayed applications will
be rejected and no applications will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary scale.– Rs. 171,360 -7x1,740 - 10x2,160 -17x2,880 -
Rs. 254,100.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances :
Rs. cts.
(a) Arduous duty allowance 2,000 0
(b) Combined allowance :
(1) For performance of duties in 10,500 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance  duties in other areas 8,400 0
(c) Other allowances :
(1) Uniform cleaning allowance 250 0
(2) Civil cloth allowance 200 0
(3) Incentive allowance 1,500 0
(4) 25% of the basic salary will be paid as
special allowance
(a) Free transport facilities.
(b) Free Medical facilities to officers  (Financial
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment
even in a foreign country.).

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
10
(c) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(d) Facilities to improve skill and talents in sports.
(e) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be
granted as rewards for outstanding and arduous
duties.
04. Basic qualifications :
(a) Age limits.– According to the Gazette Notification the
age should be in between 18 and 25 years as at the
closing date of applications. However Security
Assistants who are serving in the Police Department
are eligible to apply up to 30 years as at the closing
date of applications.
(b) Educational qualifications :
* Should have passed 06 subjects including
Mathematics and medium language in not more than
two attempts at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
Applicants who are qualified within two attempts
should have passed at least 05 subjects at the first
attempt.
Note.– 01. According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, number
of subjects passed at the examination will be
decided by considering the two science subjects
bearing Numbers 41, 44 as one subject and two
Mathematics subjects bearing Number 42 and 45
the two as one subject.
Note.– 02. Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
Note.– 03. Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of
G. C. E. (O/L) passes in any of these subjects
will not be computed as a pass in the G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination.
(c) Physical requirements :
  * Height 05 feet 04 inches (minimum).
  * Chest 30 inches (Minimum in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided that they have
skills in sports or have achieved best performance in
sports at national level or they have earned reputation
for Sri Lanka by participating in an international
competition.
(e) Visual requirement.– Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 with one eye and
6/18 with the other eye it will be accepted. Colour vision
should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or
contact lenses will not be eligible.
(f) Other qualifications :
Applicants should be unmarried. (Divorcees will be
considered as married). Only this condition will not
apply for those who have fulfilled the other
qualifications and presently serving in the Police
Department and for the Security Assistants.
5. Method of recruitment.– Selected applicants will have to pass
the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department of Police.
Only those who have passed this test must also get through the
physical fitness test or endurance test :
1,000 meters 03 minutes 44 seconds
Only those who are successful in the physical fitness or
endurance test will be called for final interview. Only those
who socre 40% or more will be called for the written test.
* The Written Test consists of two question papers :–
* An essay paper not less than 500 words within 45
minutes.
* General Knowledge and Intelligence Paper - 1 Hour.
6. Medical Test.– Candidates who are selected according to the
priority and merit test will have to get through medical test prior to
their appointment. Unsuccessful candidates will be rejected.
7. Background Inquiries  :
(a) In view of confirm the conduct of the applicant, inquiries
will be made on the conduct of the applicant, close
relations and friends. If the applicants with  the adverse
reports he will be rejected for recruitment.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.
8. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular, No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Public Service with effect from
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they enter the service.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
11
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the Language Test of Secondary Level conducted by the
Official Language Department.
* The salary increments of those who fail to pass the second
official language within of 05 years from the date of
appointment will be deferred until a pass is obtained.
9. Terms of Engagement. – This post is permanent. You are
liable to contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension
Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subjected to a recruit period of three
years.
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereinafter be made to
give effect to the official language policy of Government.
(c) They will be subjected to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code V olume I and II, Financial
Regulations, Departmental Orders and any other orders
that may be issued by the Inspector General of Police or
by the Government from time to time.
(d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer should pass the
prescribed Departmental Examinations. Those who fail
to pass the prescribed examinations or found to be unfit
for Poilce duties are liable to dismiss from the Police
Service.
(e) Permission will not be granted to the selected officers to
marry prior to being confirmed in the said rank without
the permission of the Inspector General of Police.
However, in terms of P. G . II No. 41 dated 28.02.1973
and I. G . P.'s Circular  No. 1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and
Circular (Amended) dated 09.08.2007, it is possible to
marry showing special reasons and with permission of
Inspector General of Police.
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a probationary period of three years in the
Police Department and if they wish to resign from service
before their probation is over, they should sign an
agreement of consent to the effect that they are willing to
pay at the time of tendering their resignation, any amount
which was incurred on the training and uniforms etc.,
together with any other prescribed payments. Director
of Police Training College will decide it having calculated
dues from the applicants. The acceptance of resignation
should conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of V olume I
of the Establishments Code, 1985.
(g) Immediately after Recruit Police Constables have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,
they should take affirmation/oath to the effect that they
comply with the Police Code of conduct in terms of the
I. G. P.’s Circular No. 1693/2003.
(h) Immediately after Recruit Police Constables have
commenment their training at the Police Training College,
they should take the Oath of allegiance to a Public service,
in terms of the I. G. P.'s Circular, No. 1804/2004.
(i) Recruit Police Constables who have been confirmed in
the post will have opportunities for promotions in terms
of the approved schemes of promotions of the Police
Department.
11. (a) Attention should be paid to the general conditions
applicable to appointments to posts in the Public Service
published in the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular, No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
12. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their applications (originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not related) ;
(iii) Certificates in substantiating of educational
qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in substantiating any outstanding sports or
other extra curricular activities ;
(v) A photocopy of the service experience (if available) ;
(vi) A photocopy of the Identity Card.
13. (a) Applicants who are already in the Public Service must
forward their applications through the Heads of their
respective departments and they must be accompanied
with a certificate stating that the officer can be released,
if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the copies of certificates called for, to the
address given in paragraph 2 and under no circumstances
should applications be handed over personally to any
officer in the Department.
14. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
12
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
POST OF RECRUIT POLICE CONSTABLE (SPECIAL TASK FORCE)
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Copy of the NIC should be attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police Station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(d) Police station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) The electorate to which the permanent address belongs :
–––––––––.
(f) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent address
belongs :–––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––.
(g) Telephone Number (Residence) :–––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are a citizen by birth or registration :–––––.
(If by registration, attach copies of certificate)
(c) If you are citizen by birth, state the place of birth :
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great grandfather :––––––––.
07. Date of birth :––––––––––. (Copy of the birth certificate should
be attached)
Age : (as at the closing date of application as stated in the
Gazette):
Years :––––––––– Months :––––––––– Days :–––––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
Chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.
11. Whether married or single :––––––––––.
12. ( a) Present employment :––––––––––.
(b) Are you a member of any armed forces ? :––––––––––.
13. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications :––––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant  :
(i) ––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––.
15. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Reserve Police
Service or Regular Police Service ? (If so give reference) :
––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the
Sri Lanka Reserve Police Service before ? (If so, under
what circumstances did you leave the service ? Give
details) : ––––––––––.
16. Are you a member of the Sri Lanka Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and number. Attach a copy of the
appointment letter :––––––––––.
17. ( a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
Commander of the respective service) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
18. (
a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ?
(If so, your application must be submitted through the
respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed service ?
:––––––––.
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificate)
19. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence ? (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or fake, I am aware that I am liable for immediate
termination of my service in the Police Department at any time
even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
01–49/2

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
13
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND WATER RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT
Irrigation Department
ENGINEERING ASSISTANTS SERVICE IRRIGATION
DEPARTMENT, POST OF ENGINEERING ASSISTANT,
CLASS II GRADE II
APPLICA TIONS are invited for filling posts of Engineering
Assistants; Class II Grade II of the Engineering Assistants Service
of the Irrigation Department.
Application must be addressed to the Director General of
Irrigation Department of irrigation, No. 230, Bauddaloka Mawatha,
Colombo 07 and send under registered cover to reach me on or
before 24.01.2014.
The words “Application for the post of Engineering Assistant,
Class II Grade II, Irrigation Department Engineering Assistant
Service” must be written on the left hand top corner of the envelope.
Any applications received after this date will be rejected.
2. Salary Scale .– The monthly consolidated salary after
successful completion of training period is Rs.15,005-4x180-14x240-
Rs.19,085. (This includes an Efficiency Bar Examination prior to
salary step of Rs. 16,205)
3. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(b) Should not be less than 18 years or more than 30 years of
age on 24.01.2014 - (The upper age limit will not apply to
employees in provincial and State Service);
(c) Should have good conduct;
(d) The candidate should be in good health and will have to
undergo medical test conduct by a government medical
officer to ascertain whether the candidate is physically fit
to serve any part of the country;
(e) The candidate should possess any one of the educational
qualifications as per (i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) given below:
(i) G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects
in not more than two sitting with Credit passes for
Language, Mathematics, English Language, Science
and one other subject; and
Pass in G .C.E. (Advance Level) Examination in one
sitting with ordinary passes in four subjects inclusive
of Physics and Pure Mathematics or According to
the new syllabus should have passed G .C.E.
(Advance Level) in three subject including Combined
Mathematics and Physics.
(ii) National Diploma in Technology (NDT) in Civil
Engineering from the university of Moratuwa or the
Hardy Technical Collage at Ampara, together with
one year’s practical (field) training and should have
passed the relevant examination with the Surveying
and Leveling and Irrigation Engineering and obtaining
relevant certificates.
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE) in
Civil Engineering, conducted by Advance Technical
Institute, Mattakkuliya, completed with Irrigation
Engineering and Surveying & Leveling as subjects.
(iv) National Diploma in Engineering Science (NDES) in
Civil Engineering, conducted by Institute of
Engineering Technology, Katunayake, completed with
Irrigation Engineering and Surveying & Leveling as
subjects.
Note. – Those who have completed the course and are
not in possession of the certificate could also apply,
but will be required to produce at the interview
and the effective date of certificate should be before
the closing date.
4. Method of Recruitment:
(a) Recruitment will be made in terms of Public
Administration Circular No., 15/90 and according to the
provisions of the Establishment code.
(b) (i)  The Apprentices recruited with qualification under
section 3.e(I) should follow a fulltime residential
training course conduct by the Department of
Irrigation in the Departmental Training Institute at
Galgamuwa for a period of two years.  The
Apprentices who pass the relevant examinations
inclusive of the final examination will be attached
to the field for one year for practical training.  After
the completion of the field training to the
satisfaction of the Director General of Irrigation, a
practical test will be held and those who pass are
entitled to receive the certificate of the Diploma in
Irrigation Engineering awarded by the Training
Institute of the Department of Irrigation.
(ii) Irrigation Apprentices who fail the relevant
examination shall be allowed to follow the training
extend by a period not more than six months at the
discretion of the Director general of irrigation, if the
failure is not for the reasons of negligence of duties,
non interest or weak attendance.  The Apprentices
who fail shall pass all relevant examinations
including the final examination, which will be held
at the end of the extended period of training.  The
Apprentices who fail even this examination shall
have their service terminated.
(iii) It is desired that the Apprentices shall have a record
of satisfactory training by attending at least 80% of
the lectures during the period of training.  In the
event of any Apprentices who does not have the
required minimum attendance and a satisfactory
record of training, will not be permitted to sit the
relevant examination and shall have the training
terminated as well.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
14
(iv)  The Apprentices who will be recruited on the
educational qualifications as per Section 3.e (ii),
(iii), or (iv) should pass a practical test as required
by the Department of Irrigation at the end of the six
month training which include lectures and practical
training.
(v)   If these Apprentices have successfully completed
one year field training at the Department of Irrigation
itself, after recruitment they will be exempted from
the requirement of six months training and they all
should pass the practical test.
(c) All the lectures and training courses will be
conducted in English medium.
(d) Those who complete the training successfully
will be appointed to Class II Grade II
Engineering Assistants Service of the Irrigation
Department.
5. Service Conditions :
(a) These posts are permanent.  Selected applicants should
contribute to contributory pension scheme.  Those who
are holding pensionable posts at present are entitle for
pensions.
(b) Applicants firstly, will be recruited as Irrigation
Apprentices.
(c) Allowance paid for Irrigation Apprentices during the
period of training. During the entire period of training
the following allowances shall be paid to Irrigation
Apprentices recruited on qualification as per Section
3.e. (I).
During the first year Rs. 12,920 per month;
During the second year Rs. 13,040 per month;
During the third year Rs. 13,160 per month.
Apprentices recruited with qualification indicated as
Section 3.e. (II), (III) or (IV) shall be paid an allowance
of Rs. 13,160 per month during their six months training
period.
This allowances may continue to be paid during the
extend period of training with approval of the Director
General of Irrigation and with no entitlement for other
privileges or rights.
(d) Irrigation Apprentices are subject to provisions of the
Establishment Code and other regulations issued from
time to time by the Government.  They shall not be
entitle for leave or holiday railway warrants during the
period of training.
(e) The Apprentices after completion of the period of
Apprenticeship shall be appointed to Class II Grade II
Engineering Assistants and subject to three years
probations period from the date of formal appointment.
(f) Provisions from Section 10 to 12, paragraph II of the
Establishment Code shall be applicable to this service.
(g) Selected candidates should be required to sign an
agreement undertaking, to serve compulsory period of
05 years as Engineering Assistants.  If the Officer fails
to discharge the period of compulsory under the
agreement, he/she should pay the full amount mentioned
in the agreement to the Government.
6.Applicants should send copies of the following certificates
along with their applications:
(a) Technical certificates obtained;
(b) G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Certificate;
(c) G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Certificate;
(d) Birth Certificate issued by the Registrar General;
(e) Three recent character certificates (One should be from
the Principal of the last school attended and another
from the Gramasevaka of the permanent living area)
Note.- The copies of the above certificates will not be returned.
7.Employees of Provincial and State Services should send their
applications through the Head of their Department.
8.Applicants should present themselves for a written
examination to be held in Colombo, at their own expense.
9.Should be prepared to serve in any part of the country any
time as and when their services are required.  The candidates should
note that the work site at the department is normally situated in
remote areas with less transport and lodging facilities.  Specially,
the selected candidates will be posted to one of the following stations
and has to work there at least for five years.  Those who are not
willing to do so, need not apply.  Stations are irrigation Divisional
offices such as Ampara, Potuwil, Kalmunai, Akkarapattu, Padaviya,
Rajanganaya, Huruluwewa, Mapakada, Badulla, Kandeketiya,
Nawakiri, Rugam, Tissa, Weeraketiya, Hambantota, Wellawaya,
Bibile, Monaragala, Polonnaruwa, Kaudulla, Elahera, Inginimitiya,
Puttalama, Muthtur, Kantale, Gomarankadawala, Murunkan,
Vavunia and Project Offices.
10.If any false information given in the application is revealed
before recruitment the Candidature is liable for cancellation.  Their
service will be terminated, if false information is revealed after
recruitment Legal action for providing mis information also can be
taken against such candidates.
11.Attention is drawn for rules and regulations for appointments
to Government Posts vide Part I, Para II(A) of the Sri Lanka
Government Gazette.
Eng. B
ADRA KAMALADASA,
Director General of Irrigation.
Irrigation Department,
No.230, Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
19th December 2013.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
15
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND WA TER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
ENGINEERING ASSISTANT’S SERVICE IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT, POSTS OF
ENGINEERING ASSISTANT CLASS II GRADE II
01. ( a) Full Name :–––––––––––.
(b) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
02. Sex :–––––––––––.
03. ( a) Postal Address :–––––––––––.
(b) Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(c) Telephone Number :
Residence :–––––––––––.
 Mobile  :–––––––––––.
(d) E-mail Address :–––––––––––.
04. Residential District :–––––––––––.
05. Divisional Secretary’s Division :–––––––––––.
06. Date of birth (attach a copy of birth certificate):
(a) Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
(b) Place of birth :–––––––––––.
(c) Age on 24.01.2014  :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
07. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
08. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :–––––––––––.  Yes/No.
Race :
Sinhala Moor
Sri Lankan Tamil Others
Indian Tamil
09. Educational qualifications (Attach copies of certificates) :
9.1 G.C.E. (O/L) :
1
st sitting :
Index No. :–––––––––––. Year :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
2nd sitting (if relevant) :
Index No. :–––––––––––. Year :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.2 G.C.E. (A/L) :
Index No. :–––––––––––.    Year :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.  Mathematics
2.  Physics
3.
4.
10. Technical qualifications (Annex copies of certificates) :–––––.
(Please give the name of the course and technical institute)
11. If you have served in a Government Department or State
Corporation previously, indicate why you  have resigned/left
service/been discontinued/been dismissed :–––––––––––.
12. If employed at present, give details :
(a) Post :–––––––––––.
(b) Institution :–––––––––––.
(c) Date of Appointment :–––––––––––.
(d) Nature of Appointment :–––––––––––.
13. I hereby declare on my honour that the above particulars are
true and correct. I am also aware that if false or incorrect
information is contained in the above applications it is a
disqualification for selection and if it is revealed after recruitment
it constitutes adequate cause for termination of employment
without any compensation.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Recommendation of Head of Department/(for applicant in
Government Department and Provincial Council only)
I hereby certify that …………………………….. is an employee
of this Department/Institution and his/her work and conduct is
satisfactory and conforms to the requirements and conditions set
out for application for this post.  He/She could be/could not be
released if selected.
                                                                                                                      .
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and
Institution/Authorized Officer,
Official Stamp.
Name :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
01-143

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
16
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 00 9,340 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 00 950 00
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 00 750 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 00 2,500 00
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 450 00
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 275 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 00 4,360 00
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 00 3,640 00
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 00 1,250 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2014
17
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2014
JANUARY 03.01.2014 Friday — 20.12.2013 Friday 12 noon
10.01.2014 Friday –– 27.12.2013 Friday 12 noon
17.01.2014 Friday –– 03.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
24.01.2014 Friday –– 10.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
31.01.2014 Friday –– 17.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
FRBRUARY 07.02.2014 Friday — 24.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
13.02.2014 Thursday –– 31.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
21.02.2014 Friday –– 07.02.2014 Friday 12 noon
28.02.2014 Friday –– 13.02.2014 Thursday 12 noon
MARCH 07.03.2014 Friday — 21.02.2014 Friday 12 noon
14.03.2014 Friday –– 28.02.2014 Friday 12 noon
21.03.2014 Friday –– 07.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
28.03.2014 Friday –– 14.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2014.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.