

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 160]
————————
Presented by Hon. (Dr.) Ramesh Pathirana, M. P. for Galle District
on 08th February, 2017
(Published in the Gazette on January 09, 2017)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2d
2-
——————
INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S AND CHILDREN’S
RIGHTS COUNCIL (IWCRC) (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the International Women’s and Children’s Rights Council

<!-- page 2 -->

1International Women’s and Children’s
Rights Council (IWCRC) (Incorporation)
2—PL 005023—  225 (02/2017)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S AND
CHILDREN’S RIGHTS COUNCIL (IWCRC)
WHEREAS a Council called and known as the “International
Women’s and Children’s Rights Council (IWCRC)” has
heretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Council according to the rules
agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Council has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the International Women’s
and Children’s Rights Council (IWCRC) 
(Incorporation)
Act, No.    of 2017.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as precently are members of
the International Women’s and Children’s Rights Council
(IWCRC) (hereinafter referred to as the “Council”) or shall
hereafter be admitted as mambers of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “International
Women’s and Children’s Rights Council 
(IWCRC) ”
(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that
name may sue and be sued in all Courts with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
International
Women’s
and
Children’s
Rights
Council
(IWCRC).

<!-- page 3 -->

2 International Women’s and Children’s
Rights Council (IWCRC) (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations
(Registration of the Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and
the provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to
the management of the affairs of the Corporation.
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
(a) to safeguard, protect and promte the rights of
women and children everywhere within the
broad perspective of the protection of Human
Rights;
(b) to support and uplift the lives of mothers and
children who are victims of social injustices
and disabilities;
(c) to prevent the occurrence of all forms of abuse,
violence and crimes against women and
children;
(d) to assist needy school children financially or
otherwise by way of donations, prizes and
scholarships enabling them to continue their
education and encourage their regular
attendance at school and to assist them in their
educational and other development activities;
(e) to provide shelter and safe house facilities to
mothers and children of disrupted families and
implement programmes for their well being
including family reunion; and
(f) to do all such other acts, matters and things as
are incidental or conducive to the attainment
of the objectives of the Corporation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3International Women’s and Children’s
Rights Council (IWCRC) (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) In the implementation of the objects of this Act as are
specified in subsection (1), the Corporation shall ensure that
such implementation shall be carried out without any
distinction based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, or place of birth or any of such ground.
4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or of any Provincial Council.
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the
management and administration of the affairs of the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of Directors
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.
(2)(a) The Board of Directors holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act,  shall function as the Board of the Corporation until the
first Board is appointed or elected in the manner provided for
by rules made under section 7.
(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3)(a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
Patrons and Advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a
period of three years and any such office bearer, Patron or
Adviser shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election
after the lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
Corporation
to ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
of the
Government
or Province.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 International Women’s and Children’s
Rights Council (IWCRC) (Incorporation)
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or the furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purposes of the Corporation, and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(b) to barrow or raise money with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:
Provided that the Board shall obtain prior written
approval of the Department of External Resources
of the Ministry of the Minister assigned with the
subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations made to the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain, and close accounts
in any bank;
(d) to invest any funds which are not immediately
required for the purposes of the Corporation in such
manner as the Board may determine;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5International Women’s and Children’s
Rights Council (IWCRC) (Incorporation)
5
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation;
(g) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a view to promoting the objectives of the
Corporation;
(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to that of the
Corporation;
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purposes of the Corporation; and
(j) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of
members and fees payable by them;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or,
vacation of or removal from office of office
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 International Women’s and Children’s
Rights Council (IWCRC) (Incorporation)
bearers and the powers, duties and functions of
the office bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointments,
powers, functions and duties of the various
officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed for the
summoning and holding of meetings of the
Board or any sub-committee thereof, notices
and agenda of such meetings, the quorum and
the conduct of business thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications to be a
member of the Board and the Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the
property of the Corporation; and
(g) generally the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its’
objects and dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under sub-section (1) of this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
8. Board shall maintain a register of members in which,
the name, address and other essential details of the members
shall be inscribed.
Register of
members.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 8 -->

7International Women’s and Children’s
Rights Council (IWCRC) (Incorporation)
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequest,
donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and
on account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or
more banks approved by the Board to the credit of the
Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under the Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditor
appointed by the Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of
the Constitution.
(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”
means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which,being a member of the institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

8 International Women’s and Children’s
Rights Council (IWCRC) (Incorporation)
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited statement of accounts to the
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary Social
Service Organization appointed under the Voluntary Social
Services Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,
No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the
year succeeding the year to which such report relates.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and
local moneys received by the Corporation during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
sub-section (1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Council existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Council on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
movable or immovable, which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same.
14. The moneys and property of the Corporation
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Annual
Report of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Council.
Application
of money
and property.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 10 -->

9International Women’s and Children’s
Rights Council (IWCRC) (Incorporation)
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence two
members of the  Board  who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains  after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
similar to those of the Corporation, and which is  by the
rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its members.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the
Council immediately before the dissolution at a General
Meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
17. Nothing  in this Act contained  shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
25
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 International Women’s and Children’s
Rights Council (IWCRC) (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .