

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2317
2317
wxl 1"840 - 2013 foieïn¾ 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'12'06
No. 1,840 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 06, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2320
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2320
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—Parts I:III, III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,839 of 29.11.2013 were not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th December, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th
December, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—  (i) National Enterprise Development Authority (Amendment)  Bill is published as a Supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of October 11, 2013.
(ii) The Federation of Photographic Societies of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)  Bill is published  as a Supplement to the Part II o f
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of November 15, 2013.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2318
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2319
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2320
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATALE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 06th  January, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
15th November, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Matale Matale Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Udugoda Pallesiya Division and General, District Secretariat, Matale.
Registrar of Marriage (Kandiyan/
General) in Matale North.
12–88
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  SRI  LANKA
GOVERNMENT  LIBRARIANS’  SERVICE  -  2013
ACCORDING to the provisions of the Sri Lanka Government
Librarians' Service Minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of No. 1620/22
dated 24.09.2009 and to the provisions of the Sri Lanka Government
Librarians' Service Revision No. 01 Minute Published in the Gazette
Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of
No. 1834/10 dated 24.10.2013 applications are hereby called from
the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the open competitive
examination for recruitment to posts in Class III of Sri Lanka
Government Librarians’ Service.
2.0 This examination will be held in Colombo in month of March
2014 by the Commissioner General of Examinations and the
candidates who have satisfied qualifications based on the merit on
the results of this examination will be selected for appointment to
the posts in Class III of Sri Lanka Government Librarians’ Service.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2321
3.0 Number of candidates appointed and the effective date of
appointment will be determined by the Appointing Authority. The
Appointing Authority reserves the right to fill a certain number of
vacancies or not to fill any of the vacancies.
4.0 Salary.– According to the Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006(iv) dated 24.08.2007, salary code applicable to class
III of Sri Lanka Government Librarians’ Service is MN 3 - 2006-A
and the monthly salary scale is Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180-6x240-11x320-
20x360- Rs. 27,885.
5.0 This post is permanent and pensionable.
6.0 Qualifications:- Candidates are required to possess following
qualifications for recruitment to posts in Class III of Sri Lanka
Government Librarians' Service :–
(a) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years of age on the closing date of applications.
(a) (i) Shall have obtained a Credit pass for one of the
subjects i.e. Sinhala, Tamil, English at G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination ;
(ii) Shall have passed six subjects with Credit passes
for Mathematics and two other subjects at GCE
(O/L) Examination. (Candidates are required to pass
five out of these six subjects at one sitting with 4
Credit passes) ;
(iii) Shall have passed in three main subjects at
G . C. E. (A/L) at one sitting ;
and
(d) (i) Shall have possessed a three-year Diploma on Library
Science from a recognized university ; or
(ii) Shall have possessed three-year Diploma on Library
Science from Sri Lanka Library Association.
(iii) Shall have obtained a higher qualification than above
(i) or (ii) qualifications (such qualifications shall be
determined by the Director General of Combined
Services communicating with relevant university
officers and Sri Lanka Library Association).
Note:
(i) It is compulsory to satisfy all these qualifications on
or before 31st December 2013 ;
(ii) No candidate is allowed to sit the open competitive
examinations for recruitment to posts in Class III of
Sri Lanka Government Librarians' Service more than 3
occasions.
7.0 Scheme of Examination.– This examination will consist of
three question papers. The examination will be held in Sinhala,
Tamil and English media and the candidates will not be allowed to
change the medium of examination selected by them :–
Subjects Marks Duration
(i) Library Science 100 03 hrs.
(ii) Intelligence Test 100 01 hr.
(iii) General Knowledge 100 01 hr.
The syllabus prescribed for the above subjects  :
7.1 Library Science :
(1) Libraries and Librarianship  :
(a) Libraries and history of libraries, main libraries of the
modern and ancient world ;
(b) Origin and evolution of the art of writing and other
written media including books ;
(c) Origin of printing technology, expansion and influence
of the printing technology on libraries and the subject
of social development.
(d) Types of libraries :
(i) Special libraries ;
Structure, functions and services of libraries in
the institutions such as Ministries, Departments
and Co-operations and research libraries ;
(ii) Academic libraries ;
Structure, functions and services of libraries in
Universities and other higher educational
institutions ;
(iii) School libraries ;
(iv) Public libraries ;
(v) Libraries in pirivenas, temples and libraries in
other religious institutions, monasteries.
(e) Library committees
Structure, necessity, significance and role of library
committees ;
(f) Organizations of professionals in relation to library
field and functions of such organizations - National
& International Levels (Sri Lanka, India, America,
Great Britain) ;
(g) Buildings of libraries.– Planning and other aspects to
be considered ;
* Establishments of a library in an existing building,
organization of improvement
(h) Maintenance, conservation and preservation of
library equipment ;
(i) Disasters and disaster management.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2322
(2) Organization of Information and Knowledge  :
(a) Objectives and benefits of book classification ;
(b) Main classification methods applied in the libraries
in Sri Lanka: Dewey decimal classification, universal
decimal classification ;
(c) Objectives of cataloguing, Anglo-American Cataloging
Rules (AACR) ;
(d) Bibliographical description ;
(e) Compilation of entries using AACR-2.
(3) Library Resources and Information Services  :
(a) Various library resources ;
(b) Improving collections, policies for improving
collections and importance ;
(c) Acquisition, process including selection of library
resources :
(i) Principals and sources of the selection of library
resources;
(ii) Technological services including acquisition
process, processing;
(iii) Stock taking and weeding process.
(d) Publishing, copyright and censorship ;
(e) Current awareness services ;
(f) Awareness programme for readers ;
(g) Public relations and publicity for libraries.
(4) Information Communication Technology :
(a) Application of computer technology in libraries,
significance and productivity of information
technology in library activities and functions.
* A question paper consisting of compulsory questions
in the nature of structured essays/short answers
covering above four fields.
7.2 Intelligence Test :
This paper will be designed to assess the candidate’s capacity
for comprehension, quantification and perception of
time-space relations by measuring candidate’s inference and
responses to problems presented in verbal, numerical and
spatial context.
* A question paper consisting of 50 multiple choice
questions and questions for short answers. Duration 1
hour.
7.3 General Knowledge :
This paper will be designed to assess the candidates
awareness and understanding of social, cultural, educational,
political, economical and any other relating factors operating
at national, regional and global environment or organizations
as well as our society and also to assess general knowledge
of candidates in Library Science and library field.
* A question paper consisting of 50 multiple choice
questions and questions for short answers. Duration
1 hour.
(Question papers for intelligence test and general
knowledge shall be prepared in relation to field III under
recruitment examination classification of the
Department of Examinations).
Candidates should score a minimum of 40% marks for each
paper to become qualified for an appointment.
Appointments will be made strictly following the order of
marks so as to fill the number of vacancies reserved for
open competitive examination.
8.0 Examination Fees:- Examination fee is Rs. 500. This fee can
be paid to any Divisional or District Secretariat under the head
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. A margin
at receipt obtained in the name of candidate should be affixed in the
relevant cage of the application so as not to be detached. (It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt for future reference)
Under no circumstances the examination fee will be refunded and
money orders and stamps are accepted.
9.0 Applications .– Applications should be prepared in the
following manner using both sides of a paper of size A4 (21 x 29cm)
(normal halfsheets) and it should be filled by the candidates language
medium in which he/she sits the examination :–
(a) Cages from 1 to 3 should appear on the first side of the
page ;
(b) Cages from 4 onwards should appear on the other pages ;
(c) The title of the examination appearing in the specimen
should be indicated in English language as well, on both
Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in
accordance with the specimen form will be rejected without any
notice. Applications of those who haven't paid examination fee on
or before due date will also be rejected. Candidates should be
responsible for any loss incurred by them due to incomplete
applications. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
completed application form. It is the responsibility of the candidate
to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice as
otherwise the application may be rejected.
9.1 All applicants who have paid prescribed examination fees
and forwarded their applications on or before the
prescribed date will be allowed to sit the competitive
examination, by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, on the presumption that only those who
possess qualifications as indicated in the Gazette
Notification have forwarded their applications. Issue of
an admission card to a candidate to sit the competitive
examination does not mean to have accepted that he
possesses all the qualifications for this post. If it was
found at the interview that the applicant does not possess
the required qualifications his or her candidature will be
cancelled.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2323
9.2 The words “Open Competitive Examination for
Recruitment to Class III of Sri Lanka Government
Librarians’ Service - 2013” should be written on the top
left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application
is enclosed.
9.3 Candidate’s signature in the application form should have
been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
Justice of the Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary
Public, Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an
officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an
Officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service
whose annual salary is Rs. 240,360 or above.
9.4 Applications duly perfected should be sent by registered
post to reach the following address on or before 06th of
January, 2014.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Overseas Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
10.0 Sitting the Examination .– A notification will be published
in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such an advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand
at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. certified
photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at your
possession, receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the
admission card should be sent.
11.0 Candidates should furnish one of the following documents
to the Supervisor of examination in support of their identity :-
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department for
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
12.0 Penalty for furnishing false information. – The candidate
should be very careful to include correct particulars in the
application. If it is found that any candidate is not eligible according
to the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature
can be cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination.
Further, if it is found that any information furnished by a candidate
is false, he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the Public
Service.
13.0 Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be
subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
14.0 This examination notification will be published in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages and in case of any inconsistency among
texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. Any matter not referred to
herein will be decided by Director General of Combined Services.
All candidates are bound to comply with the general examination
rules pubilshed in this gazette.
K. V. P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
20th November, 2013.
Specimen Application Form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF SRI LANKA
GOVERNMENT LIBRARIANS’ SERVICE – 2013
(Indicate the correct code/number clearly in the relevant cages)
(for office use only)
Language Medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 Name :–
1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals) Eg. PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Number of the N. I. C. :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2324
3.3 Age as at 31.12.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Telephone Number :
4.0 Educational qualifications :
4.1 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) examination (First sitting) :
(i) Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of candidate :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 Particulars of G . C. E. (O/L) examination (Second sitting):
(i) Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of candidate :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.3 Particulars of G. C. E (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of candidate :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
4.4 Particulars of three-year diploma a higher qualification
in relation to Library Science obtained by the candidate
to sit for the examination as per Para 6.0( d) of the
examination notification :
(i) University/Institute :––––––––––.
(ii) Diploma/Degree :––––––––––.
(iii) Efffective date of completion of above Degree/
Diploma :––––––––––.
5.0 Other qualifications :––––––––––.
6.0 Have you ever been convicted for any offence in a court of
Law ? (Indicate particulars, if the answer is yes)
(Indicate 3 in the relevant cage)
Yes N o
7.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment made :––––––––––.
(ii) Number and the date of the receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount :––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Candidate’s Certificate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I agree to suffer any loss that may be caused
as a result of any information not being completed
and/or any information erroneously being included here.
I also state that all sections herein have been correctly
filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false I am liable to disqualification before
appointment and to dismissal from service if the
inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
prupose of holding this examination.
(d) I do not change any information mentioned herein later.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
9.0 Attestation of Applicant’s Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ who
submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on ................... and further
the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the
receipt on the application.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
12–265

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2325
LIMITED COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  SRI  LANKA
GOVERNMENT  LIBRARIANS’  SERVICE  -  2013
ACCORDING to the provisions of the Sri Lanka Government
Librarians' Service Minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of No. 1620/22
dated 24.09.2009 and to provisions of the Sri Lanka Government
Librarians' Service Revision No. 01 Minute published in the Gazette
Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of
No. 1,834/10 dated 24.10.2013 applications are hereby called from
the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for a Limited Competitive
Examination held in Colombo on March 2014 for recruitment to
posts in Class III of Sri Lanka Government Librarians’ Service.
2.0 The candidates who have satisfied qualifications based on
the merit on the results of this examination will be selected for
appointment to the posts in Class III of Sri Lanka Government
Librairans' Service. The number and the effective date of
appointments shall be determined by the Appointing Authority.
The Appointing Authority shall reserve the right not to fill all or
certain number of vacancies.
3.0 Salary.– According to the Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006(iv) dated 24.08.2007, salary code applicable to class
III of Sri Lanka Government Librarians’ Service is MN 3 - 2006-A
and the monthly salary scale is Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180-6x240-11x320-
20x360- Rs. 27,885.
Note.– Incremental benefits shall be granted subject to the
rules and regulations applied for salary increments
implemented at the time of appointment.
4.0 Service conditions :
(i) An Officer appointed to the class III of Sri Lanka
Librarians' Service on the results of the Limited
Competitive Examination shall be subjected to a period
of acting of one year. Such officer shall be confirmed
in the post by the Director General of Combined
Services on the confirmation made by the Head of
Department to the effect that his/her work, conduct
and attendance are satisfactory.
(ii) An Officer appointed on the results of this examination
shall be subjected to be appointed or transferred to
any area of Sri Lanka
(iii) The Officer is required to obtain the proficiency in
second language before the lapse of 05 years from the
date of appointment as per the Public Administration
Circular No. 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
5.0 Qualifications:- Candidates are required to possess following
qualifications for sitting this examination :–
(a) shall have completed an active service of 10 years in a
post of Library Assistants/Library Attendant and being
confirmed in the same post. Also the officer shall have
completed a satisfactory service of five years immediately
preceding the closing date of applications. (Maximum
age limit will not be applicable in this respect) ;
and
(b) (i) Shall have successfully passed the first year of the
three year diploma in library science from a
recognized university ;
or
(ii) Shall have successfully completed the first year of
the three year diploma in library science from Sri
Lanka Library Association.
Note :
(i) It is compulsory to satisfy all these qualifications
on or before 31st December 2013.
(ii) Those who have satisfied requirements indicated in
(a)(b) below as per the para 5.0(a) above shall be
treated as having become qualified to apply for the
examination.
(a) Shall have earned all the salary increments falling
within the 05 years immediately preceding 31st
of December 2013.
(b) Shall have not been subjected to any disciplinary
punishment within 05 years immediately
preceding 31st of December 2013 (except
warning).
6.0 Scheme of Examination.– This examination will consist of
three question papers. The examination will be held in Sinhala,
Tamil and English media and the candidates will not be allowed to
change the medium of examination selected by them :–
Subjects Marks Duration
(i) Library Science 100 03 hrs.
(ii) Intelligence Test 100 01 hr.
(iii) General Knowledge 100 01 hr.
The syllabus prescribed for the above subjects  :
6.1 Library Science :
(1) Libraries and Librarianship  :
(a) Libraries and history of libraries ;
(b) Role of the members of libraries ;
(c) Origin and evolution of the books, various documents
and non printed media.
(d) Associations of professionals in the field :
(i) Sri Lanka Library Association.
(ii) American and British Library Associations.
(e) Types of libraries :
(i) School and other educational institution libraries.
(ii) Libraries in the Ministries and Departments.
(iii) Public libraries.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2326
(f) Library committees.
(g) Conservation and preservation.
(2) Organization of Information and Knowledge  :
(a) Objectives and benefits of book classification.
(b) Main features in book classification.
(c) Dewey decimal classification.
(d) Cataloguing and objectives of cataloguing.
(e) Anglo-Amercial Cataloging Rules -2(AACR)
(f) Bibilographical description.
(g) Types of cataloges.
(3) Library Resources and Information Services  :
(a) Various library resources.
(b) Selection of library recourses and the selection
process.
(c) Acquisition and its process.
(d) Processing.
(e) Stock vertification and disposal process.
(4) Information Communication Technology :
(a) Effects of the computer technology on library
services.
* This paper consisting of questions which are expected
short answers.
6.2 Intelligence Test :
This paper will be designed to assess the candidate’s capacity
for comprehension, quantification and perception of
time-space relations by measuring candidate’s inference and
responses to problems presented in verbal, numerical and
spatial context. Paper consisting of 50 questions in the
nature of multiple choice questions and questions for short
answers.
6.3 General Knowledge :
This paper will be designed to assess the candidates
awareness and understanding of social, cultural, educational,
political, economical and any other relating factors operating
at national, regional and global environment or organizations
as well as our society and also to assess general knowledge
of candidates in Library Science and library field. Paper
consisting of 50 questions in the nature of multiple choice
questions and questions for short answers.
(Question papers for intelligence test and general
knowledge shall be prepared in relation to field III under
recruitment examination classification of the
Department of Examination).
Candidates should score a minimum of 40% marks for each
paper to become qualified for an appointment.
Appointments will be made strictly following the order of
marks so as to fill the number of vacancies reserved for
limited competitive examination.
8.0 Examination Fees:- Examination fee is Rs. 500. This fee can
be paid to any Divisional or District Secretariat under the head
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The
receipt obtained should be affixed in the relevant cage of the
application so as not to be detached. (It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt for future reference) Under no
circumstances the examination fee will be refunded and money
orders and stamps are accepted.
9.0 Applications .– Applications should be prepared in the
following manner using both sides of a paper of size A4 (21 x 29cm)
(normal halfsheets) and it should be filled by the candidates language
medium in which he/she sits the examination :–
(a) Cages from 1 to 3 should appear on the first side of the
page ;
(b) Cages from 4 onwards should appear on the other pages
using both sides of the sheet of paper and the application
should be filled in the same language candidate expects to
sit for the exam ;
(c) The title of the examination appearing in the specimen
should be indicated in English language as well, on both
Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
8.1 Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in
accordance with the specimen form will be rejected without
any notice. Applications of those who haven't paid
examination fee on or before due date will also be rejected.
Candidates should be responsible for any loss incurred by
them due to incomplete applications. It would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form. It
is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the
application form perfected by him/herself complies with
the specimen given in the examination notice as otherwise
the application may be rejected.
8.2 All applicants who have paid prescribed examination fees
and forwarded their applications on or before the prescribed
date will be allowed to sit the competitive examination, by
the Commissioner General of Examinations, on the
presumption that only those who possess qualifications
as indicated in the Gazette Notification have forwarded
their applications. Issue of an admission card to a candidate
to sit the competitive examination does not mean to have
accepted that he possesses all the qualifications for this
post. If it was found at the interview that the applicant
does not possess the required qualifications his or her
candidature will be cancelled.
8.3 The words “Limited Competitive Examination for
Recruitment to Class III of Sri Lanka Government
Librarians’ Service - 2013” should be written on the top
left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is
enclosed.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2327
9.0 Applications duly perfected should be sent by registered
post to reach the following address on or before 06th of January,
2014 and the candidates aer requested to submit their applications
to the Heads of Department with a sufficient period :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Overseas Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
10.0 Sitting the examination.– A notification will be published in
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such an advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand
at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. certified
photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at your
possession, receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the
admission card should be sent.
11.0 If the candidate is selected for an appointment, the Head of
Department, shall agree to release the officer. For the purpose the
Head of Department shall issue a certificate attached at the end of
the application. Further, Heads of Departments shall approve duty
leave to candidates who have been issued admission cards for the
examination. However travelling expenses shall not be paid.
12.0 Candidates should furnish one of the following documents
to the Supervisor of examination in support of their identity :-
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department for
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
13.0 Penalty for furnishing false information. – The candidate
should be very careful to include correct particulars in the
application. If it is found that any candidate is not eligible according
to the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature
can be cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination.
Further, if it is found that any information furnished by a candidate
is false, he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the Public
Service.
14.0 Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be
subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
15.0 This examination notification will be published in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages and in case of any inconsistency among
texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. Any matter not referred to
herein will be decided by the Director General of Combined Services.
K. V. P. M. J. GAMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
20th November, 2013.
Specimen Application Form
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF SRI LANKA
GOVERNMENT LIBRARIANS’ SERVICE – 2013
(Indicate the correct code/number clearly in the relevant cages)
(for office use only)
Language Medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 Name :–
1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals) Eg. PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 2.1 Name and address of Office/Department/Institution :
––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Name and address of Office/Department/Institution :
––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 N. I. C. Number :

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2328
3.4 Telephone Number :
4.0 Particulars of the service :
4.1 Name of the Department where the candidate serves at
present :––––––––––.
4.2 Designation of the present post :––––––––––.
4.3 Date of appointment to the present post :––––––––––.
4.4 Whether you have been cnfirmed in the present post :
––––––––––.
4.5 If confirmed the date of eligiblity for confirmation :–––.
4.6 Reference No. and date of the letter of confirmation in
the present post :––––––––––.
5.0 Educational qualifications :
Particulars of three year Diploma course of which the first year
has been passed by the candidate to be eligible to sit this
examination as per para 5.0(b) of the examination notification :
(i) University/Institute :––––––––––.
(ii) Diploma :––––––––––.
(iii) Date in which the candidate passed the first year of the
course :––––––––––.
6.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment made :––––––––––.
(ii) Number and the date of the receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount :––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
7.0 Candidate’s certificate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I agree to suffer any loss that may be caused
as a result of any information not being completed and/
or any information erroneously being included here. I
also state that all sections herein have been correctly
filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false I am liable to disqualification before
appointment and to dismissal from service if the
inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
prupose of holding this examination.
(d) I do not change any information mentioned herein later.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant’s Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ who
submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on ................... and further
the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the
receipt on the application.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
Certification by the Head of the Department
I certify that,
1. Mr./Mrs./Ms. ................................ the candidate, is
presently employed in this department.
2. He/she has been confirmed in the post of Library Assistant/
Library Attendant and has completed a 10 years of active
period of service on or before 31.12.2013.
3. A letter has been issued confirming in the post of Library
Assistant/Library attendant.
4. He/she has completed at least a five years of satisfactory
period of continuous service on or before 31.12.2013.
5. He/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary
punishment within the period of five years immediately
preceding 31.12.2013 and his/her work and conducts are
satisfactory.
6. He/she has earned all the salary increments falling within the
five years immediately preceding 31.12.2013.
7. He/she can be released from the present post if selected for
a post on the result of the examination.
8. The particulars indicated in his/her application have been
compared wit hthe documents of the department and found
to be correct and further he/she is eligible to sit the examination
according to the regulations of the examination notification.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department and official stamp.
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Note :
1. The signature should be certified only by the Head of the
Department or an authorized staff officer. The officer, who
certifies, should be satisfied each and every way with the
accuracy of information provided.
2. Those who do not meet the eligibility criteria should not
submit applications to the commissioner General of
Examinations.
12–266

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2329
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 00 9,340 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 00 950 00
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 00 750 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 00 2,500 00
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 450 00
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 275 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 00 4,360 00
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 00 3,640 00
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 00 1,250 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.12.2013
2330
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2013
DECEMBER 06.12.2013 Friday — 22.11.2013 Friday 12 noon
13.12.2013 Friday –– 29.11.2013 Friday 12 noon
20.12.2013 Friday –– 06.12.2013 Friday 12 noon
27.12.2013 Friday –– 13.12.2013 Friday 12 noon
2014
JANUARY 03.01.2014 Friday — 20.12.2013 Friday 12 noon
10.01.2014 Friday –– 27.12.2013 Friday 12 noon
17.01.2014 Friday –– 03.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
24.01.2014 Friday –– 10.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
31.01.2014 Friday –– 17.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
FRBRUARY 07.02.2014 Friday — 24.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
13.02.2014 Thursday –– 31.01.2014 Friday 12 noon
21.02.2014 Friday –– 07.02.2014 Friday 12 noon
28.02.2014 Friday –– 13.02.2014 Thursday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2013.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.