

<!-- page 1 -->

109 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.06.10
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
wxl 1"971- 2016 cqks ui 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'06'10
No. 1,971 – FRIDAY JUNE 10, 2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... 110
109
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st July 2016, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th June
2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G . FONSEKA,
Government Printer (Acting ).
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www. documents. gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note .- Homoeopathy Bill was published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of sri Lanka
of April 12, 2016
N. B.- The List of Jurors in Galle and Balapitiya Jurisdiction Area in year 2016 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in Si nhala
Language only.

<!-- page 2 -->

110  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016.06.10
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
Miscellaneous Notices
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
NOTICE  OF  WINDING  UP  IN  THE HIGH
COURT  OF THE WESTERN  PROVINCE
In  the  Exercise  of  its  Civil  Jurisdiction Holden  in
Colombo
In the matter of winding up of
the Tradesman SL (Private)
Limited (Pv 1166) having it's
Registered office at 40, Ferry
Road, Ratmalana.
Jinwei Metals Materials Co.,
Ltd of Room 9055-9056,
Baiyeplaza, No.27, Gong Yi
Road, Hudu District,
Guangzhou City, China.
.................................Peti-
tioner.
NOTICE is hereby given that a petition for the winding up
of the above named Company by the High Court of the West-
ern Province (Holden in Colombo) in the excercise of its
Civil Jurisdiction was, on the 12th day of May 2016 pre-
sented to the said Court by Jinwei Metals Materials Co.Ltd
of Room 9055-9056, Baiye Plaza, No.27 Gong Yi Road,
Hudu District, Guangzhou City, China and the said petition
is directed to be heard before the Court on 09.09.2016, and
any creditor or contributory of the said Company desirous
Case No:-HC Civil 15/16 Co
 Nature : Co
Procedure : Summery
to support or   oppose the making of an Order on the said
petition may appear at the time of hearing in person or by
his Attorney-at-Law for the purpose; and a copy of the peti-
tion will be furnished to any creditor or contributory of the
said Company requiring the same by the undersigned on
payment of the prescribed charge for the same.
Signed
Mr. S
ANJAY FONSEKA,
Attorney-at-Law.
No.171, Bopitiya, Pamunugama.
Note.- Any person who intends to appear on the hearing of
the said petition must serve on or send by registered post to
the above -named M.J.S.Fonseka notice in writing of his
intention so to do. The notice must state the name and ad-
dress of the person, or if a firm, the name and address of the
firm, and must be signed by the person or firm, or his or
their Attorney-at-Law (if any) and must be served, or if
posted, must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the
above address later than 4.00 o' clock in the afternoon of
the 08th day of September, 2016.
Attorney-at-Law-for the petitioner.
06-514