

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 717
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 702 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"435 – 2025 uehs ui 02 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'05'02
No. 2,435 –  FRiday, May, 02, 2025
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd May, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th May, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 K. G. Pradeep  Pushpa  Kumara,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
02nd January, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
699 - B 082677 - 5,403 (04/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
700
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
701
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations. 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
702
Post - v acant
SRI   LANkA   ARmy
Calling for Applications for Cadet Officers in the Sri Lanka Army  Volunteer Force
 aPPLicatioNS  are invited for cadetship in the V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka army. Selected candidates will be 
trained at the Sri Lanka Military academy, diyatalawa.
2. after successful completion of the training period in the Sri Lanka Military academy, cadets will be commissioned in the 
rank of Second Lieutenant as officers with the Diploma in military Studies and posted to arms or Service regiments 
in the Sri Lanka army, based on the aptitude of the cadet and the requirement of the army.
3. Basic Qualifications. 
a. citizenship: Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
b. Marital Status: Unmarried.
c. age:  Not less than 18 years and not more than 26 years as at 30 th  July 2025
d. Height:  Not less than 5’6” feet (170.6 cm).
e. Weight:  Not less than 50 kg (110 pounds).
f. Eyesight:  Both eyes 6/6 (without spectacles and lenses).
g. Body Mass index (BMi): Between 18.5 kg/m² – 25 kg/m².
4. Educational Qualifications.
a. Should have passed six (06) subjects with four (04) credit passes including English and ordinary passes for 
Mathematics and Sinhala / t amil in not more than two sittings at the GcE (o/L) Examination or any other 
international examinations (Pearson, Edexcel, GcSE, GcE and cambridge) recognized by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka as an equivalent.
b. Should have passed three (3) subjects and obtained 30%  of marks from the Common General Test in not more 
than one sitting at the GcE (a/L) Examination or any other international examinations (Pearson, Edexcel, GcSE, 
GcE and cambridge) recognized by the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka as an equivalent.
c. Any other higher educational qualifications or achievements in sports will be considered as added qualifications.
   
5. Other Qualifications. Sports, leadership and other achievements (district, Provincial  and National and international 
levels) and proficiency in other languages (Other than Sinhala and English) will be considered as added qualifications.
6. General.
a. A person shall qualify for the commission as an officer of the V olunteer Force, only if he satisfies the conditions 
relating to the educational and other qualifications stipulated by the Commander of the Army and approved by the 
Minister of defence.
b. All officers commissioned in the service of the Sri Lanka Army V olunteer Force, on or after 25
th September 1956 
shall subscribe to the condition, that they will acquire the required degree of proficiency in the official language 
and will confirm to the requirements of the Official Language Act No. 33 of 1956 and any regulations and orders 
made thereunder.
c. When an officer ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka, he shall forthwith inform the Commander of the Army of such 
fact.
d. No officer shall whilst he is in the service of the V olunteer Force, enlist in the Sri Lanka Navy or Sri Lanka Air 
Force.
e. No member of a Regular Force, Regular Reserve, Sri Lanka Police or the Sri Lanka Prisons shall be commissioned 
in the V olunteer Force.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
703
f. No person who had retired or discharged under the provisions of the Official Language Act from service in the 
Regular Force, the public service, a government corporation, institution or statutory body, shall be commissioned 
in a Regiment or Unit of the V olunteer Force.
g. No person who has been convicted of a criminal offence shall be commissioned into a Regiment or Unit of the 
V olunteer Force.
h. cadets are not allowed to marry during the training period.
i. Every applicant who is selected for the interview will undergo a medical examination conducted by the Sri Lanka 
Army and must be qualified from that prior to enlistment.
7. conditions of Service .
a. the enlisted candidates in the V olunteer Force must compulsorily serve for a period of 5 years in the Sri Lanka 
army from the date of commission. Every candidate should enter into a contract/monetary bond with the Sri 
Lanka army.
b. the pay of a cadet while under training will be Rs. 91,551.80 per month (inclusive of all allowances). He will not 
be entitled to any increment of pay during the period of service as a cadet.
c. cadets will be required to undergo basic military training at the Sri Lanka Military academy for a period of 15 
months.
d.  The status of cadets will be similar to other ranks during the training period and they will be subject to military 
law and civil law.
e. Withdrawal of cadetship . 
(1) in the event of a cadet voluntarily terminates his candidature for a commission   during his period of 
training, the parents or guardian will be required to refund all expenses incurred up to that time by the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to the account of the cadet .
 
(2) if at any time during his course, a cadet is reported by the authorities to be unsuitable for the issue of 
the commission, for reasons of misconduct or negative Security clearance for causes within his control, 
his parents or guardians will be required to refund to the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka all 
expenses incurred by the Republic of Sri Lanka to the account of the cadet.
(3) Any officer cadet who may resign or may be discharged on medical grounds will not be re-enlisted in the 
army as a cadet on a subsequent occasion.
8. Pay and allowances. On commissioning as officers in the Sri Lanka Army V olunteer Force in the  rank of Second 
Lieutenant, they will be placed on the following salary scale applicable to the officers of the Sri Lanka Army.
Ser Rank
M: S: C  3/2016
Consolidated Pay From 
01.01.2020.
Salary Increments 
From 01.01.2020
1 Officer Cadet Rs: 32,380.00 -
2 Second Lieutenant Rs: 38,605.00 -
3 Lieutenant Rs:  47,615.00 30 x 1335
4 captain Rs:  55,625.00 24 x 1335
5 Major Rs:  60,965.00 22 x 1335
6 Lieutenant colonel Rs:  62,595.00 22 x 1630
7 colonel Rs: 76,175.00 17 x 2170
8 Brigadier Rs:  80,515.00 15 x 2170
9 Major General Rs:  88,000.00 12 x 2700
10 Lieutenant   General Rs:  93,400.00 10 x 2700
11 General Rs: 101,500.00 7 x 2700

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
704
9. other allowances. the following allowances are payable monthly:
 
a. Qualification pay.
b. Free feeding or ration allowance.
c. Disturbance allowance when order to live in (For married officers only).
d. Uniform upkeep allowance.
10. the following facilities are available/allowances payable:
a. Free accommodation when ordered to live in.
b. a  rent ceiling applies when living in rented quarters.
c. Free uniforms.
d. Batman allowance to married officers or batman service to unmarried officers.
e. one return duty warrants per month from the place of work to the home station to those who are ordered to “live 
in”.
11. Parents or guardians will be required to sign a declaration as shown in paragraph 13 below, which should be forwarded 
with the application. Parents or guardians of the selected candidates will be required to enter into a bond substantially 
in the form of a declaration, with the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka before the candidates are appointed.  
Except in special cases, a cadet officer whose father is not alive the guardianship is vested in his mother or the guardian.
12. declaration to be signed by the parents or guardians of the applicant:
a. i am the parent/guardian of ………………………  who is an applicant for a cadetship in the Sri Lanka army.
b. i hereby undertake to be responsible, in the event of the above-named applicant being selected to attend a course 
of training in Sri Lanka or overseas for the following:
(1) all private expenses, which the applicant may incur during the period of his training.
(2) t o refund the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for all expenses incurred on his account by 
the state in the event of the above-named applicant voluntarily terminating his candidature for the 
commission during training.
(3) t o refund the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for all expenses incurred on his account by 
the state  in the event of  the above-named applicant is reported by the authorities to be unsuitable (For 
reasons of misconduct or causes within his control) for the commission during his training period.
*Strike out inappropriate words.
date ………………… …………………………
  Signature of parent/guardian
Name and address (clearly in block capitals) ……………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
date ……………………                                                    ………………….........……
     Signature of Witness
Name and address (clearly in block capitals) ……………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
13. Language Requirements . the selected candidates will be required to comply with any rule already made or may 
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions of the official Language act, No. 33 of 1956.
14. Proof of identity . candidates will be required to produce proof of their identity. identity cards issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons or Postmaster General and Driving licenses issued by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic 
will be accepted for this purpose.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
705
15. candidates who are currently employed in the Public Service (or Provincial Public Service, Government corporations, 
or Statutory Boards) must submit their applications through their respective Heads of departments or institutions 
including a certificate stating the candidate can be released if selected.
16. applications . Applications should be submitted in the applicant's handwriting in terms of the forms specified below and 
should be forwarded to the headquarters, Sri Lanka Army v olunteer force, Army Camp, Seethawaka, kosgama 
so as to reach not later than 12.00 hrs on 30.07.2025 by the registered post. the phrase “Application for Cadetship in 
the v olunteer force” should be marked at the top left upper corner of the envelope. applications received at the army 
Headquarters after the closing date or those not conforming to the requirements of this notification will be rejected. 
Printed applications will not be issued from the Headquarters and further information is available on the website, www.
army.lk.
1 7 . applications should be accompanied by photocopies of:
a . Birth certificate.
b. Certificates in support of educational qualifications claimed.
c. School leaving certificate.
d. Certificate issued by Grama Niladhari.
e. Police clearance certificate.
f. Certificates in support of sports/ extra-curricular activities.
g. At least two recent certificates of character from responsible persons (Who are authorized to  issue a character 
certificate) who are personally acquainted with the applicant, one of whom should be the principal of the last 
school attended by the applicant.
h. other relevant certificates.
i. A photocopy of the National Identity Card and a recently obtained photograph (Passport size 2˝ x 2  1/2˝) 
attested by the Grama Seva Niladhari or an attorney-at-law.
18.   Conducting Interviews. Preliminary selections will be made from among those candidates who fulfill the above 
requirements. the selected candidates are required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the commander of the 
Army. The final selections will be made after an interview of the elected candidates, by a selection board appointed by 
the Ministry of defence. 
19. the selected candidates for interviews will be informed to personal emails of the candidates of the venue, time, and 
the date. the interviews will take place in the Headquarters of the  Sri Lanka Army v olunteer force, Seethawaka, 
kosgama. No traveling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
20. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate, provide a testimonial instead of engaging in any form of canvassing or 
attempting to influence the selection process, as such actions will disqualify the candidate.
21. Applicants who are not qualified for enlistment will not be notified. Inquiries about such disqualification will not be 
entertained. 
 
Note: This Gazette Notification is published in Sinhala, English and Tamil. In the event of any inconsistency between 
Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 B K G M L Rodrigo  RSP ctf-ndu psc iG, 
 Lieutenant General, 
 commander of the army. 
Sri Lanka army Headquarters,
defence Headquarters complex,
akuregoda Road,
Battaramulla,
01st april, 2025
05-12

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
706
SRI  LANkA  NAvy
Officer Cadet Vacancies for Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force - 2025
1. Vacancies are existed in the Sri Lanka Navy Regular Naval Force for Officer Cadets
2. Applications are invited from male/ female candidates possessing the qualifications for following Branches
a. Executive
b. Marine Engineering
c. Electrical and Electronic Engineering
d. Logistics
e. Provost
3. Basic educational qualifications.
a. Should have passed 06 subjects obtaining Credit passes for Mother tongue, Mathematics and English in not more 
than two sittings for the G.c.E (o/L) Examination.
b. Should have passed 03 subjects in one and same sitting for G.C.E (A/L) Examination for following branches.
(1) Executive -  Must have obtained at least 03 simpal passes (S) in the subject of Biology, 
Physics, chemistry and  combined Mathematics under the streams of 
Biological and Physical Science. 
        
(2) Marine Engineering -   Having  studied  Physics, combined  Mathematics, chemistry  and should 
have obtained minimum 02 credit passes (c ) and 01 Simple pass (S) under 
the Physical Science Stream.
  or  
Minimum of  2 (B) passes and 1 (c) pass in cambridge or edexcel (a  Level) 
Examination covering combined Mathematics, Physics and chemistry in one 
sitting. 
 
(3) Electrical and -  Having studied Physics, combined Mathematics, chemistry and should have 
Electronic   obtained minimum 02 credit (c)  passes and 01 Simple pass (S) under the   
Engineering  Physics Stream. 
(4) Logistics -   Having studied Economics, accounting and Business Studies Business 
statistics and should have obtained 03 simple (S) passes under the  commerce 
Stream.
(5) Provost -  Having studied from any stream and should have obtained minimum 03 Simple 
(S) passes. 
4. Other Requirements:
 Candidates should fulfil following general conditions for the enlistment to the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force;
a. Nationality  - Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
b. age  - Should not be less than 18 years and more than 22 years as at the closing date for 
applications.
c. Height  -  Male - Should not be less than 5 feet 6 inches.
    (Should not be less than 5 feet 7 inches for Provost Branch).

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
707
    Female - Should not be less than 5 feet 3 inches.     
(Should not be less than 5 feet 4 inches for Provost Branch).
d. Weight -  Male - Should not be less than 52 kg.
    Female - Should not be less than 41 kg. 
e. chest ( male only) -  Should not be less than 32 inches.
f. colour vision -  Std ii.
g. Visual acuity -  Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without spectacles/ contact lenses)
h. other Educational  - Should have obtained not less than 30 marks for the common General test in G.c.E (a/L) 
Qualifications  Examination.
Should have obtained minimum  qualification for university entry in Sri Lanka based on 
the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination results. (A certified copy of the results sheet issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations should be sent along with the application form)
i. Civil status  - Unmarried (No Officer Cadet/ Lady Officer Cadet will be permitted to get married during 
the period of training and for a period of one year from the date of commissioning)
5. Additional subjects will not be considered as G.C.E. (O/L) educational qualifications.
6. Special attention will be given to achievements in the national and international level sports activities at the enlistment 
process.
7. Applications of candidates who do not fulfil the aforesaid requirements of paragraph 3 and 4 will be rejected. 
8. Conditions of service;
a. Candidates will be enlisted into the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force as Officer Cadets and will undergo the 
basic training course. Upon successful completion of the basic training with respect to the branch for which the 
enlistment is made, the Officer Cadets will be commissioned as Acting Sub Lieutenant.
b. Enlisted Officer Cadets will be required to undergo training at any place in Sri Lanka or any country in the world 
as decided by the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy.
c. All Officer Cadets are liable to be posted for duty or training in Sri Lanka or any country in the world at any time.
d. During the period of training and thereafter, Officer Cadets will be subjected to laws orders and instructions 
which are empowered by the existing Sri Lanka Navy act, Sri Lanka Navy Regulations, Sri Lanka Navy orders 
& Memorandums and laws and instructions which may hereafter be imposed.
e. Any time during the period of training an Officer Cadet is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable for 
reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his control to qualify for the commission has to refund all expenses 
carried on his training to the Sri Lanka Navy. if he fails to do so the guarantors will be required to refund all the 
expenses carried out an training by entering in to an agreement and a bond to this effect with the Commander of 
the Sri Lanka Navy acting on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
f. In the event an Officer Cadet voluntarily terminates his candidature during the training, he will be required to 
refund to the Government of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the Government of Sri Lanka on 
account of such Officer Cadet. If Officer Cadet fails to do so, the guarantors are required to refund all expenses 
incurred up to that time.
g. accidents and long-term disabilities during the training period will be covered by the insurance already 
implemented at the Sri Lanka Navy and the Sri Lanka Navy shall not be liable for any special compensation 
payment or responsibility.
9. Official language requirements:
 the selected candidates will be required to comply with orders and regulations already made or may hereafter be made for 
giving effect to the Language Policy of the Official Language Act No. 33 of 1956.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
708
10. Pay and allowances (during the period of training):  
 the payments will be made as per the Management Services circular No. 05/2025.
DESCRIPTION OffICER CADET 
(RS.)
mIDShIPmAN
(RS.)
Basic salary 47,817.00 48,277.00
cost of living 17,800.00 17,800.00
Uniform allowance 525.00 525.00
additional allowance 1,000.00 1,000.00
Special adjustment allowance 3,000.00 3,000.00
Ration allowance (depending on 
the situation)
  34,846.80 34,846.80
total 104,988.80   105,448.80
11. Entitlement of facilities, allowances and privileges during and after the training period;
a. The selected enlistees will have the opportunity to pursue degree courses affiliated to local universities under the 
University Grants commission.
b. Other enlistees will be given the opportunity to follow degree courses offered by the General Sir John Kotelawala 
defence University or any other local/ foreign institute.
c. the enlistees will be provided with food and accommodation facilities.
d. Three sets of Holiday Railway Warrants per year will be issued (for the officer, spouse, children and dependents 
if applicable).
e. Duty Holiday Railway Warrants will be issued or imbursement of bus fare for officers living in to visit their homes 
once a month.
f. Uniforms and ancillary items will be issued free of charge.
g. Medical facilities will be provided free of charge (for the officer, spouse, children and dependents if applicable).
h. Married officers who do not occupy Government married quarters, will be entitled to a rent allowance of Rs. 
3,200.00 to Rs. 8,500.00.
i. Ration  Allowance will be given only to the officers who are victual out.
j. Qualification Pay where applicable will be  paid a maximum of Rs.637.50 per month, depending on the 
qualifications.
12. Instructions to candidates;
a. applications should be in the form of the specimen given below and should be completed clearly in detail in 
the applicant’s own hand writing. Duly completed applications should be forwarded to ‘Senior Staff Officer 
(Recruiting), Sri Lanka Navy Headquarters, P.o. Box 593, colombo-01 under registered cover on or before 1200 
hrs on 23rd May, 2025. The top left corner of the envelope containing the application should bear ‘Post of Officer 
cadet. Further applications which are forwarded via registered post also should be applied through online system. 
applications which are not forwarded in both ways, applications received after the closing date and time and 
applications that do not comply with the requirements stipulated in the gazette  notification will not be entertained. 
For further information please call 011-7195120/ 011-7195154/ 0760275685  or  www.navy.lk.
b. No notice will be given regarding the rejected applications. Any complaint with regard to loss or delay of an 
application will not be considered. Moreover receipt of the application will not be acknowledged.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
709
c. candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents in the interview or any other 
occasion and certified copies of the following documents when forwarding the applications:
(1) Certificate of registration of birth.
(2) Certificates of educational/ higher educational/ professional educational/ degree qualifications 
required for the branch applied for.
(3) School leaving certificate and character certificate obtained from school.
(4) Grama Niladhari certificate obtained within six months.
(5) Certificates of professional/ technical experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(6) Two recent character certificates (From responsible person who knows the candidate for more than 
two years).
(7) Certificates of sports activities and other qualifications. 
d. applications of candidates who fail to produce the aforesaid documents when requested will not be considered.
e. Original copies of Certificates or other documents should not be enclosed with the application. If enclosed with 
the application, Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for the loss of any originals of certificates.
13. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the candidate liable to disqualification or 
dismissal when the false statement is revealed before the selection or after the selection respectively.
14. Enlistment procedure;
a. The candidates who fulfil the above requirements should undergo a preliminary medical test conducted by the 
Sri Lanka Navy. Prior to the first interview,  Candidates those who are not meet with the physical standards 
mentioned in the gazette, will not be presented to the interview. any candidate who may have a special skill or 
value to the naval service may be considered at the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy even 
though the candidate may not have the requisite height and age. candidates also required to undergo a Physical 
Endurance Test (PET) to progress with the selection process as mentioned below (subjected to amendments).
b. Requirements to qualify the Physical Endurance Test; (Subject to amendments)
event Rounds Time
Male Female Male Female
1600m run - - 09 minutes 11 minutes
Push ups 12 or more 08 or more 01 minutes 01 minutes
Sit up/ curl ups 10 or more 07 or more 01 minutes 01 minutes
c. only the candidates those who successfully complete the Physical Endurance test have to be present  before the 
medical board. The candidates who qualified the medical examination will be called for the second interview. 
Subsequently candidates those who qualified from the second interview will be called for the final interview. 
candidates those who obtain the highest marks from the respective branches will be selected according to existing 
vacancies.
d. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
e. candidates who were selected for the interviews will be informed of the date, time and place of such interviews 
only through Whatsapp/ Mobile/ Email and no information will be shared in writing by post. travelling or other 
expenses will not be paid in this respect.
f. on every occasion a candidate is summoned for an interview, he/she should produce his/her National identity 
card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
710
g. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him a testimonial. any form of canvassing 
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
h. Validity of the certificates of educational and professional qualifications produced by the candidates will be 
verified in coordination with the Department of Examinations.
i. Reports on security clearance of all candidates will be subject to re-examination by the Naval Headquarters.
15. The Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy reserves the power to take final decisions on enlistment process of Officer Cadets 
in the Sri Lanka Navy and upon national security, military and administrative requirements of the Sri Lanka Navy, final 
decision in making changes to the above requirements and conditions will be at the discretion of the commander of Sri 
Lanka Navy.
Note:  this gazette notification is published in Sinhala, English and Tamil. In the event of any inconsistency between 
Sinhala, English and tamil texts of this gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
  BaKSP Banagoda, RSP, USP, ndc, psc
  Vice admiral,
  commander of the Sri Lanka Navy,
   
Sri Lanka Navy Headquarters,
P.o. Box 593,
colombo 01.
Application for Office Cadet Vacancies of the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force 2025
1. Nationality: ……………………………………....................……………………………………..….
 (State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if registration, quote number and date of the 
certificate)
2. Branch applied for (as per the order of preference): ……………………..……………………………….. ..……………
……………………...............…………………………………...........………………………….
3. Full name (as per the National identity card): …......................………………………………………….
4. National identity card number: …………………….........................……………………………………..
5. Permanent address: ………………………………........................…………………………………………
6. Postal address: ……………………………........................…………………………………………………
7. E-mail address: ……………….......................………………………………………………………………
8. date of birth: .......................…………………………………………………………………………………
9.  age: y ears ….....…….. Months ……........…… days …..............…… (as at .........23rd May ................ 2025)
10. Height:………….....(inches) chest:……...........…..(inches) Weight:…………............(kg.)
11. Nearest Police Station to permanent address: …...................…………………………………………….
12. district: ………………………….....................……………………………………………………………
13. Electorate: ………………………......................…………………………………………………………..

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
711
14. Grama Niladhari division: …....................……………………………………………….……………….
15. t elephone/ Whatsapp Number: ……………......................……………………………………………….
16. civil status:……………....................………………………………………………………………………
17. Gender:……....................……………………………………………………………………………………
18. Particulars of school or university attended: ………….......................……………………………………
NAmE Of  ThE SChOOL 
/uNIvERSITy
TyPE Of  
EXAmINATION
yEAR Of  
EXAmINATION
SubJECTS PASSED 
(INCLuDING GRADING)
G.c.E (o/L)
G.c.E (a/L)
other
19. Particulars of employment since leaving school/ university (if applicable):
NAmE & ADDRESS Of  
EmPLOyER
NATuRE Of  EmPLOymENT PERIOD Of  SER vICE
TO fROm
20. Particulars of parents:
fuLL NAmE PLACE Of  bIRTh OCCuPATION PRESENT ADDRESS
Father
Mother
21. Any special qualifications for the branch applied for: …………..…………………………………………................……
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
22. details of available achievements in sports. (give details of competitions and sports teams participated in with dates and 
achievements): …….........................................................................................................
23. other achievements at school/ outside organizations. (give details with dates/ years etc.):………………………………
………………..............................................................……….…………………………………………………………...
24. any previous service in the armed Forces or V olunteer Force, cadet corps or Boy Scouts association: ………………
……………………............................………………………………………………………….…………………………
25. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy or any of the Armed Services or Police? If so Give details and the 
outcome of such applications :…....................................……...............................…....…………………..………………
……………………………………................................……..............................................................................................
26. Have you had a conviction or received a suspended sentence by a civil or military court? If so give details: …………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………….….….….….….
….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
712
27. Particulars of testimonials:
NAmE DESIGNATION POSTAL ADDRESS
28. declaration to be signed by the applicant:
 i declare on my honour that aforesaid details given by me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the regulations which will apply in respect of those 
candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Navy published in the gazette  of the government of Sri 
Lanka.
 ...……………… ...................………………………..,
 date Signature of candidate.   
     
* Send your completed application (with certified document proofs for the qualifications and achievements) to following 
address via registered post, at the earliest.
Senior Staff Officer (Recruiting)
Navy Headquarters,
P.o. Box 593,
colombo 01.
* contact details : Email: nhqssorec@gmail.com, tel: 0117195154, 0117195120, Mob : 0760275685
05-24
__________________________________________
JuDICIAL  SER vICE  COmmISSION
Recruitment to the Post of Court family Councellor Grade II in the Schedule  
Public Officers' Service - 2025
01. In terms of provisions set out in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service Minute published in Extraordinary Gazette 
bearing No.2088/26 dated 11.09.2018, applications are called from Sri Lankan citizens who possess the required 
qualifications for the interview to make recruitments to the post of Court Family Councellor Grade II of the Scheduled 
Public Officers’ Service.
02. Method of Recruitment :
 Open recruitments only Vacancies will be filled from among the applicants who have fulfilled  required qualifications 
based on the results of an interview conducted by the Judicial Service commission.
 It is hereby notified that this interview will be held in Colombo by the Judicial Service Commission. The Secretary, 
Judicial Service Commission reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to the instructions of the 
Judicial Service commission.
03. conditions of Service :
3.1 Court Family Councellors recruited subject to the provisions of the Constitution and provisions of the Scheduled 
Public Officers’ Service Minute, will be subjected to the Establishments Code, Financial Regulations, and 
circulars, regulations and directions that have been already issued and may be issued by the Judicial Service 
commission from time to time. 
 3.2 This appointment is subject to a probation period of three years. The Efficiency Bar Examination should be 
passed before 06 years from the recruitment to court Family councellor Grade ii of the Scheduled Public 
Officers’ Service as prescribed in the Service Minute.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
713
3.3 the Secretary, Judicial Service commission is vested with the power to cancel the appointments of the  applicants 
who fail to assume duties in the post to which they are  appointed on the due date and/or  applicants who  refuse 
or neglect to assume duties in a  post or in an area into which they are appointed, on the direction  of the Judicial 
Service commission. 
3.4 The other official language proficiency applicable to the Court Family Councellors’ Service in the Scheduled 
Public Officers’ Service should be acquired according to the tertiary level relevant to Court Family Councellors’ 
Service in the SPo Service in accordance with Public administration circular 18/2020 and Judicial Service 
Commission Circular 456 issued there to within 03 years after joining the service.    
04. as per Public administration circular No. 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025 the salary scale prescribed to court Family 
Councellors’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officer’s Service is as follows :-
 Salary code – MN 6 – 2025
 Salary Scale (Monthly) – Rs.62,230/- 10 x 1190 – 11 x 1360 – 15 x 1670 – Rs.114,140
 applicants recruited to court Family councellor Grade ii will be placed in the initial Salary scale of Rs. 62,230/- 
and salaries will be paid as per schedule iii of Public administration circular No : 10/2025 dated 23.03.2025.
05. This post is permanent and pensionable. Though it has been stated above that the post is pensionable, the Officers that 
are to be recruited to Grade II of the Court Family Councellor in future will be subjected to decisions taken by the 
Government and/or Judicial Service commission in relation to the pension scheme applicable to them.
06. Qualifications :
 Following qualifications shall have been completed to be recruited to Court Family Councellor Grade II of the Scheduled 
Public Officers’ Service.
(a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
                      and
(b) Be a person of an excellent moral character;
  and
(c) Should be not less than twenty eight (28) years of age and not more than thirty five (35) years of age as at 
02.05.2025;
   and
(d) a  degree on Psychology or Sociology from a University recognized by the University Grants commission or 
from an institute recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institute;
  and
 A Diploma on Psychology Counseling from a Government recognized institute;
  or
(e) a  Special degree on Psychology or Sociology from a University recognized   by the University Grants commission 
or from an institute recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institute;
             or
(f) a  Post Graduate degree in Psychology or Sociology from a University recognized by the University Grants 
commission or from an institute recognized by the University Grants commission as a degree awarding institute. 
Note  - The upper age limit  for officers who are already in the Government Service, Provincial    Public Service 
and Scheduled Public Service is forty five (45) years. 
All the applicants recruited to the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service shall have a sound  physical  and 
mental fitness to serve in any part of the Island and to perform the duties of the post.
N.B. -  It is compulsory that every applicant should have fulfilled all the qualifications required for the respective 
post by 02
nd may 2025 or prior to said date.
07. A number of applicants equal to the number of vacancies may be appointed after an interview for verifications of 
qualifications. However, the number of officers to be selected at a time will be determined by the Commission.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
714
08. Penalty for furnishing false information :-
Any misstatement or suppression of a fact which is considered material will render the applicant liable to disqualification,
if such statement or suppression is discovered before the selection and to dismissal or discontinuance if discovered after
the selection.
09. Application fees –
 the application fee is Rs.400/= the receipt obtained by paying said amount to the  credit  of the account of ‘Secretary, 
Judicial  Service Commission’ bearing No. 297100199025039 at People’s bank, Dam Street branch should be affixed 
using one edge of the receipt on the due place of the application so as not to be detached. ( a photocopy of the receipt  
should be kept with the applicant for future use) the fee will not be refunded under any circumstances, while money 
orders and stamps will not be accepted in respect of the fee. 
10. Method of applying -
(a) Applications should be prepared in compliance with  the specimen application form annexed to this  notification
using  both sides of  the paper of size 8 ½ "x 12" ( a 4)  and it should be completed in  applicant’s own  handwriting. 
computerized / typed applications can also be used for this purpose.
Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected
without any notice. ( it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form) it is the
responsibility of the applicant to make sure that the application form prepared by him/her complies with the
specimen given in the examination notice, as otherwise the application may be rejected.
(b)
 d uly completed applications should  be sent  by registered  post to reach the address “Secretary, Judicial Service
commission Secretariat, colombo 12” on or before 30th may 2025.
 the words “Recruitment to Court family Councellor Grade II of the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service - 
2025” should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the  envelope in which the application is  enclosed. 
any application received after 30th may 2025 will be rejected. 
(c)  a pplicant’s signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School,
a Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, an Attorney at - Law , Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the
Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in
Staff Grade in the Public Service.
(d)
Applicants who are already in Public Service and who have fulfilled above qualifications should submit their
applications through their respective Head of the department.
(e) Applications which have not been duly completed in every respect will be rejected. No complaints regarding
applications lost or delayed in the post will be entertained.
11.  a ny matter not provided for in these rules will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary of the Judicial Service
Commission subject to the instructions of the Judicial Service Commission.
12. In the event of any inconsistency or contradiction among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
By order of the Judicial Service commission,
H.S.Somaratne,
Secretary,
Judicial Service commission.
Judicial Service commission Secretariat,
colombo 12,
 25th april 2025.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
715
Specimen Application form
Recruitment to the Post of Court family Councellor Grade II in the 
Scheduled Public Officers’ Service -  2025
                                                      (For office use only.)
01. Medium: 
 Language medium of the interview:
 Sinhala  -   1
 t amil    -   2
  (indicate the correct number in the cage)
02. Personal details :
2.1 Name with initials :  Mr. /Mrs. /Miss. ..............................................................  (in English block capitals)                 
  eg. a.P.K. SiRiW aRdaNa  , 
2.2 Name in full:  ............................................................................................................................................... 
 (in English block capitals )
2.3 Name in full :  ............................................................................................................................................... 
 (in Sinhala / t amil)
2.4 Personal address (in Sinhala/t amil ) :   
 ............................................................................................................................................................................
2.5 Residing district : ..............................................................................................................................................
2.6 address to which the letter calling for the interview should be sent  (in English block capitals ):   
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................
2.7   National identity card number:
2.8 date of birth : 
        date:      Month:                        year:
2.9 age as at 02.05.2025:
 y ears :      Months :                      days:
2.10 Gender :    Male - 1     Female – 2
  (indicate relevant number in the cage)
2.11 civil status  :  Married - 1    Unmarried – 2
  (indicate relevant number in the cage)
2.12 contact number : 
 Permanent : .............................  Mobile : ...............................  E-mail ................................

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
716
03. Educational qualifications:
 01. …………………………………………………………………………………………….
 02. ………………………………………………………………………….…………………
 (Annex photo copies of certificates)
04. Other qualifications: .........................................................................................................................................................
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
05. Have you ever  been convicted for any offence by  any Court?
(indicate the mark ( √ ) in the relevant box) 
  No   y es
if ‘yes’ give particulars ……………………………………………
06. Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee: 
 Branch to which the payment was made : ................................
 Number and date of the receipt : ................................
 amount : ................................
Affix the receipt firmly here
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the applicant )
07. Applicant’s certificate:
(a) i solemnly declare that  particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best  of my 
knowledge . i agree to bear any consequence that may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections and/ or 
provision of erroneous information. I also state that all sections herein have been correctly filled. 
(b)  I am aware that if any particulars contained  herein are  found to be false, I am  liable to disqualification before 
appointment  and to dismissal  from service if the inaccuracy is detected  after appointment.
(c)  Further to that, i hereby agree to abide by all the  conditions imposed by the Secretary of the  Judicial Service 
commission for the purpose of  holding this examination. 
(d)  i shall not change any information mentioned herein subsequently.
                                                                                                 
          ............................               ..............................................,
 date             Signature of applicant.
08. attestation of applicants’ signature :
  i hereby certify that, Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………………….…….. who submits this application is known to me 
personally and that he/she placed his /her signature in my presence on …………………….. and further the applicant 
has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the application.
 
 ............................. ................................................,
 Date Signature of the Officer                                    
  attesting the signature.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
717
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :.......................................................................
designation :.......................................................................
address :.......................................................................
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
Certification of the Head of Department (only for the applicants who are already in Public Service.)
i hereby recommend that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………………. serving in this ……………… has 
fulfilled educational qualifications required to apply for Court family Councellor Grade II of the Scheduled Public 
Officers’ Service   that he/she could be released from the present post if selected for this post, that he/she is not more 
than 45 years of age by 02.05.2025, that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on …………………………. 
further the applicant has paid the prescribed application fee and pasted the receipt on the application and that i 
submit his/her application herewith.
  ..........................................................
date :- .............................................  Signature of the Head of department
        Official Stamp.
05-39
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
JuDICIAL  SER vICE  COmmISSION
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of
  Court Stenographer (Sinhala/Tamil) Grade III of the Court management Assistants’ Service 
in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service -  2025
iN terms of provisions set out in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service Minute published in Extraordinary Gazette bearing 
No.2088/26 dated 11.09.2018, applications are called from Sri Lankan citizens who possess the required qualifications for the 
open competitive Examination for recruitment of court Stenographer (Sinhala/t amil) Grade iii of the court Management 
Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service – 2025.
 It is hereby notified that this examination will be held in Colombo by the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission. The 
Secretary, Judicial Service Commission reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to the instructions 
of the Judicial Service commission.
02. Conditions of Service: 
2.1 Court Stenographers recruited  subject to the provisions of the Constitution and provisions of the Schedule 
Public Officer’s Service Minute, will be subject to the Establishment code, Financial Regulations, and Circulars, 
regulations and directions that have been already issued and may be issued by the commission from time to the 
time. 
 2.2 This appointment is subject to a probation period of three years. The Efficiency Bar Examination should be 
passed before 05 years from the recruitment to court Stenographer (Sinhala/t amil) Grade iii of the court 
Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service as prescribed in the Service Minute.
2.3 the Secretary, Judicial Service commission is vested with the power to cancel the appointments of the  applicants 
who fail to assume duties in the post to which they are  appointed on the due date and/or  applicants who  refuse 
or neglect to assume duties in a  post or in an area into which they are appointed, on the direction  of the Judicial 
Service commission. 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
718
2.4 The other official language proficiency should be acquired according to the secondary level relevant to Court 
Stenographer (Sinhala/t amil) Grade iii of the court Management assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public 
Officers’ in accordance with Public Administration Circular No. 18/2020 and Judicial Service Commission 
Circular 456 issued there to within 03 years after joining the service.    
03. as per Public administration circular No. 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025 the salary scale prescribed to court Stenographer 
(Sinhala/Tamil) Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers Service in the 
Scheduled Public Officer’s Service is as follows:-
 Salary code – MN 2-2025
 Salary Scale (Monthly) – Rs.48, 470 /- 10 x 540 – 11 x 630 – 10 x 1,010 – 10 x 1,190 = Rs.82, 800/-
 applicants recruited to court Stenographer (Sinhala/t amil) Grade iii of the court Management assistants’ Service in 
the Scheduled Public Officers’ will be placed in the initial salary scale of Rs. 48, 470 /– and salaries will be paid as per 
schedule ⅡⅠ of Public Administration Circular No : 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025
04. This post is permanent and pensionable. 
Though it has been stated above that the post is pensionable, the Officers that are to be recruited to Grade iii of the court 
Stenographer in future will be subjected to decisions taken by the Government and/or Judicial Service Commission in 
relation to the pension Scheme applicable to them.
05. Qualifications:
 Following qualifications shall have been completed to be recruited to Court Stenographer (Sinhala/Tamil) Grade III of 
the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service.
 (a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b)  Should be not less than18 years and not more than 35 years of age as at 02.05.2025
 (c)   Be a person of excellent moral character.
 (d)   Should have fulfilled following educational qualifications.
(I) Shall have passed six (06) subjects including Mathematics with credit passes for four (04) subjects 
including Sinhala/t amil Language at the G.c.E. (ordinary Level) Examination at one sitting.
 (candidates applying for the court stenographer (Sinhala) post should posses a credit pass for Sinhala 
language. candidates applying for the court stenographer (t amil) post should posses a credit pass for 
tamil language.) 
    and
(ii) Should have successfully followed and passed a Stenography and typing course at the National y outh 
Services council, National apprentice and industrial training authority, technical college or at a 
Government Registered training institution. 
(e) All the applicants recruited to the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service shall have a sound physical and mental 
fitness to serve in any part of the Island and to perform the duties of the post.
N.b. – It is compulsory that every applicant should have fulfilled all the qualifications required for the respective 
post by 02
nd   may 2025 or prior to said date.
06. Scheme of examination :- 
(a) the examination  consists of three (03) question papers :
Question Paper Total Marks Minimum marks required to pass
01 Language Proficiency 100 40
02 aptitude 100 40
03 Stenography and typing (Sinhala/t amil) 100 *

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
719
(* Judicial Service Commission may determine the minimum marks required to pass the Subject ‘Stenography 
and typing’ taking the number of vacancies into consideration.)
 this Examination will be held in Sinhala and tamil medium. an applicant  may sit for the examination only in one 
medium as he/she desires.
 Applicant should answer the question papers, “Language Proficiency” and “Aptitude” only in the medium he/she 
has applied to sit for the  Examination.
 applicant should select the “Stenography and typing” question paper relevant to the category he is applying. this 
paper is designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties.
Syllabus of the Examination
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
01 Language Proficiency
(Sinhala/t amil)
The question paper may consist of subject related questions 
designed to test the candidate’s   ability of expression, 
comprehension, spellings, language and essay, drafting letters, 
making graphs and tables based on the  given data, summarizing  
passages, expressing the idea  of several  given  sentences in one 
sentence and use of simple grammar.
02 aptitude
(Sinhala/t amil)
This paper may consist of subject related questions designed to 
test the candidate’s skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning 
and general intelligence.
03 Stenography and t yping
(Sinhala/t amil)
Stenography (Sinhala)
taking down a passage dictated within 05 minutes at a minimum 
speed of 70 words per minute, and transcribing the notes at a 
speed of 07 words per minute.
typing (Sinhala)
typing a passage of 500 words at a speed of 25 words per 
minute.
Stenography (t amil)
taking down a passage dictated within 05 minutes at a minimum 
speed of 70 words per minute, and transcribing the notes at a 
speed of 07 words per minute.
typing (t amil)
typing a passage of 500 words at a speed of 25 words per 
minute.
Note : illegible handwriting may be penalized. 
 these papers will consist of multiple choice questions, short questions, questions on structured essays, essays 
and /or practical question. 
07. a  number of applicants equal to the number of vacancies allocated for said examination may be appointed following 
descending order, beginning from the highest scorer of marks amongst the applicants who have passed all the subjects 
of the examination after an interview for verification of qualifications. However, the Judicial Service Commission may 
determine not to fill a certain number of vacancies. 
 Results of the examination - Results will be issued to the applicants by post by the Secretary, Judicial Service commission.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
720
08. Penalty for furnishing false information   -
 Any misstatement or suppression of a fact which is considered material will render the applicant liable to disqualification, 
if such statement or suppression is discovered before the selection and to dismissal or discontinuance if discovered after 
the selection. 
09. Examination fees – 
 the examination fee is Rs.400/= the receipt obtained by paying said amount to the credit of the account of ‘Secretary, 
Judicial Service Commission’ bearing No. No: 297100199025039 at People’s bank, Dam Street branch should be 
affixed using one edge of the receipt on the due place of the application so as not to be detached. (A photocopy of the 
receipt should be kept with the applicant for future use) the fee will not be refunded under any circumstances, while 
money orders and stamps will not be accepted in respect of the fee. 
10. method of applying - 
(a) Applications should be prepared in compliance with  the specimen application form annexed to this  notification 
using  both sides of  the paper of size 8 ½” x 12’’ (a  4)  and it should be completed in  applicant’s own  handwriting. 
computerized /t yped applications can also be used for this purpose.
 Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected 
without any notice. (it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form) it is the 
responsibility of the applicant to make sure that the application form prepared by him/her complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice, as otherwise the application may be rejected.
(b) duly completed applications should  be sent  by registered  post to reach the address “Secretary, Judicial Service 
commission Secretariat, colombo 12” on or before 30
th   may 2025.
 the words “Open Competitive  Examination  for  recruitment to Court Stenographer (Sinhala/Tamil) 
Grade III of the Court Management Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service  -  2025”   
should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the  envelope in which the application is  enclosed. any 
application received after 30 th   May 2025 will be rejected. 
(c) applicant’s signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, 
a Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, an Attorney at - Law , Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the 
Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in 
Staff Grade in the Public Service.
(d) Applicants who are already in Public service and who have fulfilled above qualifications should submit their 
applications through their respective Head of the department. 
(e) Applications which have not been duly completed in every respect will be rejected. No complaints regarding 
applications lost or delayed in the p ost will be entertained.
11. Admission to the examination -
 Receipt of applications will not be notified. Admission cards will be issued to the applicants by post. If the admission card 
is not received, it should be brought to the notice of the Judicial Service commission Secretariat. When informing, the 
name of the examination applied for, full name of the applicant, address and National identity card Number should be 
mentioned. in case of an applicant outside colombo, a letter of request consisting of above mentioned details and a fax 
number for sending a copy of the admission should be faxed to the fax number 011 2 421 206 or 011 2 446 111 of Judicial 
Service commission Secretariat. Further to that it would be advisable for the candidate to keep a copy of application 
form, copy of the receipt relevant to payment of examination fee and the postal article of posting of the application to 
substantiate any information when requested by the Judicial Service commission Secretariat.  
 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
721
12. identity of applicants -
 applicants will be required to prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each 
subject they offer. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this.
a)  National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons
b)  a  valid Passport
c) a  valid driving License 
13. Sitting for the examination.
(a) the Secretary of the  Judicial Service commission  will issue admission cards  to all applicants who have sent 
applications which  are complete in every respect. an applicant who does not present the admission card will not 
be permitted to sit for the examination.
(b) Applicant should appear for the examination at the  centre specified for him/her.  All the applicants should get 
the signature placed in the admission card attested and present it to the head of the examination hall on the first 
day they sit for the examination. applicants shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Secretary 
of the Judicial Service commission for the purpose of conducting the examination. if an applicant violates these 
rules, he/she is liable for a punishment imposed by the Secretary of the Judicial Service commission.
 Note – Issuance of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the 
required qualifications to sit for the examination.
14. any matter not provided for in these rules will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary of the Judicial Service 
Commission subject to the instructions of the Judicial Service Commission.
 
15. In the event of any inconsistency or contradiction among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
By order of the Judicial Service commission,
H.S.Somaratne,
Secretary,
Judicial Service commission.
Judicial Service commission Secretariat,
colombo 12,
25th april  2025.
Specimen Application form
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of
  Court Stenographer (Sinhala/Tamil) Grade III of the Court management Assistants’ Service 
in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service -  2025
                                             (For office use only.)
01. Medium 
 Language medium of examination:
 Sinhala  -   1
 t amil     -   2
 (indicate the correct number in the cage)

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
722
02. Personal details :
2.1 Name with initials :  Mr. /Mrs. /Miss. ..............................................................    
 (in English block capitals )                    eg . a.P.K.SiRiW aRdaNa , 
2.2 Name in full:  ................................................................................................................................
 (in English block capitals )
2.3 Name in full :  ................................................................................................................................ 
 (in Sinhala / tamil)
2.4 Personal address (in Sinhala/t amil ) :   
 ........................................................................................................................................................
2.5 Residing district : ...........................................................................................................................
2.6 address to which the admission card should be sent  (in English block capitals ):   
 .............................................................................................................................................
2.7   National identity card number
2.8 date of birth : 
       date:     Month:                          y ear:
2.9 age as at 02.05.2025:
 y ears :      Months :                        days:
2.10 Gender :    Male - 1     Female – 2
  (indicate relevant number in the cage)
2.11 civil status  :  Married - 1    Unmarried – 2
  (indicate relevant number in the cage)
2.12 contact number : 
  Permanent : .................................            Mobile : ................................
   Email: .........................................
03. Educational qualifications:
 3.1 Particulars of G.c.E (o/L) Examination:
  (Attach a certified photocopy of the G.C.E. (O/L) result sheet)
 (1)  y ear and month of the examination : ..............................
 (2)  index number : ..............................
 (3)  Results : : .............................. 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
723
3.2  Particulars of G. c.E (a/L) Examination:
(1)  y ear and month of the examination : .........
(2)  index number: ..............................
(3)  Results: .......................................
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
04.
Stenography course followed : …………………………………………………………………………………………
(Attach a certified photocopy of the certificate of the course passed )
05. Other qualifications:  .........................................................................................................................................................
 ..........................................................................................................................................................
06. Have you ever  been convicted for any offence by  any Court?
(indicate the mark ( √ ) in the relevant box) 
y es         No 
(if yes, give particulars) …………………………………………………………………………………….
07. Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee:
Branch to which the payment was made  : ................................
Number and date of the receipt : ................................
 amount : ................................
08. Applicant’s certificate:
(a)  i  solemnly declare that  particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best  of 
my knowledge . i agree to bear any consequence that may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections 
and/ or provision of erroneous information. I also state that all sections herein have been correctly filled 
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained  herein are  found to be false, I am  liable to disqualification
before appointment  and to dismissal  from service if the inaccuracy is detected  after appointment.
(c) Further to that, i hereby agree to abide by all the  conditions imposed by the Secretary of the  Judicial
Service commission for the purpose of  holding this examination.
(d )  i  shall not change any information mentioned herein subsequently.
............................ ..............................................
 date            Signature of applicant
Affix the receipt firmly here
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the applicant)

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
724
09.  a ttestation of applicants’ signature :
 i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………………….…….. who submits this application is known to me 
personally and that he/she placed his /her signature in my presence on …………………….. and further the applicant 
has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the application.
 ............................. ................................................
Date Signature of the Officer  
attesting the signature  
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :.......................................................................
designation :.......................................................................
address :.......................................................................
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
Certification of the Head of Department (only for the applicants who are already in Public Service.)
I hereby recommend that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………………. serving in this ……………… has fulfilled 
educational qualifications required to apply for Court Stenographer (Sinhala/Tamil) Grade III of the Court Management 
assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service   that he/she could be released from the present post if selected 
for this post, that he/she is not more than 35 years of age by 02.05.2025, that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence 
on …………………………. further the applicant has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the 
application and that 
i submit his/her application herewith.
date :-  Signature of the Head of department :-
Official Stamp :-
05-40

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2025
725
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be re-
ceived for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will 
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if pub-
lication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous 
of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed 
for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2025
 mAy  02.05.2025 Friday — 17.04.2025 thursday 12 noon
  09.05.2025 Friday –– 25.04.2025 Friday 12 noon
  16.05.2025 Friday –– 02.05.2025 Friday 12 noon
  23.05.2025 Friday –– 09.05.2025 Friday 12 noon
  30.05.2025 Friday –– 16.05.2025 Friday 12 noon
 JuNE  06.06.2025 Friday — 23.05.2025 Friday 12 noon
  13.06.2025 Friday –– 30.05.2025 Friday 12 noon
  20.06.2025 Friday –– 06.06.2025 Friday 12 noon
  27.06.2025 Friday –– 13.06.2025 Friday 12 noon
 JuL y  04.07.2025 Friday — 20.06.2025 Friday 12 noon
  11.07.2025 Friday –– 27.06.2025 Friday 12 noon
  18.07.2025 Friday –– 04.07.2025 Friday 12 noon
  25.07.2025 Friday –– 11.07.2025 Friday 12 noon
  
  
 K. G. Pradeep Pushpa Kumara,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
02nd January, 2025.
PRiNtEd   at   tHE   dEPaRtMENt   oF   GoVERNMENt   PRiNtiNG,   SRi LaNKa.