

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2116$48 - 2019 ud¾;= ui 28 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'03'28
No. 21 16/48 – THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 2019
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) - GENERAL
Government Notifications
L. D. B. 15/2014
THE  CONSTRUCTION  INDUSTRY  DEVELOPMENT  ACT,  NO.  33  OF  2014
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Housing, Construction and Cultural Affairs under section 58 of the Construction
Industry Development Act, No. 33 of 2014 read with subsection (2) of section 55 of the aforesaid Act.
'
SAJITH PREMADASA,
Minister of Housing, Construction and Cultural Affairs.
Colombo,
06th March, 2019.
REGULATIONS
1. These regulations may be cited as the Construction Industry (Information Secretariat) Regulations of  2019.
2. The functions of the information Secretariat established by the Construction Industry Development Authoirty
(hereinafter referred to as the ''Authority'') under sub section (1) of section 55 of the Construction Industry Development Act,
No. 33 of 2014, shall be as specified in Part I of the Schedule hereto.
3.The procedure to be followed by the Information Secretariat in the discharge of its functions shall be as specified in
the Part II of the Schedule hereto.
4. The Performance Standards required to be maintained by the Information Secretariat in carrying out its functions
shall be as specified in Part III of the Schedule hereto.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
1A - PG 4457 - 507 (2019/03)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : fþoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2019'03'28
PART I : S ECTION I -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 28.03.2019
SCHEDULE
Part I
Functions of the Information Secretariat
Functions of the Information Secretariat shall be to–
(a) maintain a National Data Base in the construction industry;
(b) disseminate information on written request made to the Authority;
(c) maintain directories of stakeholders of the construction industry; and
(d) create links with public sector institutions, universities and other academic institutions that produce professionals
and technocrats.
Part II
Procedures
(a) Data in the following categories for the National Data Base shall be collected through specified formats:-
(i) construction work awarded;
(ii) construction work carrying on and completed;
(iii)construction material and components inflow;
(iv)labour demand and supply;
(v) financial facilities for construction work; and
(vi)provision of training and development of human resources.
(b) Collected data shall be processed, analyzed and published or interpreted in standard, tabular or graphical formats or
any other required manner.
(c) Disseminate information via emails in soft form, and through postal mail in hard form for–
(i) members registered with the Authority; and
(ii) subscribers to the information system.
(d) Listing registered stakeholders in directories accessible to subscribers including provision of link s to professional
bodies for linking with directories.
Part III
Standards of Performance
(a) The Authority shall have the copywrite over all its own data.
(b) All data collected from outside shall be with relevant citations and references.
(c) All information provided and data disseminated by the secretariat shall be validated periodically.
(d) The secreatriat shall, maintain accurate and complete directories of registered stakeholders.
03-1068/3
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.