

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 515
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 510 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"431 – 2025 wfm%a,a ui 04 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'04'04
No. 2,431 –  FRiday, aPRil, 04, 2025
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th april, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th april, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 K. G. Pradeep  Pushpa  Kumara,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
02nd January, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
507 - B 082668 - 5,403 (04/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
508
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
lankan. a ,Sri lankan, is a citizen of Sri lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
509
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations. 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
510
Post - v acant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’ S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages (kandyan/General)
Sinhala medium
aNURadHaPURa  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages for the 
divisions set out in the Schedule hereof :
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired 
sufficient interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not 
more than t wo (02) sittings in GcE (o/l) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary 
language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any 
other similar examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as Village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Births, deaths 
and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could 
be obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional 
Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society 
Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of Village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 05th May, 2025, by registered post to the address given 
in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Koswatta, Battaramulla,
on this 20th day of March, 2025.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
511
Schedule
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
anurdhapura Galnewa
Post of Births and deaths Registrar 
of Kalankuttiya division and Post of 
Marriages (Kandyan/General) Registrar of 
Kalagam Palatha division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, anuradhapura.
anuradhapura Kebithigollewa
Post of Births and deaths Registrar of 
Kanchuttu Korale South division and Post 
of Marriages (Kandyan/General) Registrar 
of Hurulu Palatha division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, anuradhapura.
04-50
PubLIC  SER vICE  COmmISSION
filling the Vacancies in the posts in Grade I of Sri Lanka Scientific Service under Section 11.2 of the 
Minute of Sri Lanka Scientific Service No. 1877/27 dated 28.08.2014
aS per Section 11.2 of the Minute of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service published in Gazette No. 1877/27 dated 28 th of 
august 2014 and revised by Gazette extraordinary No. 1996/25 dated 06 th December 2016, which has been effective from 
01.01.2006, applications are called from the officers, who are in active service and have satisfied the prescribed qualifications 
indicated under paragraph 02 as at 02.05.2025 and promoted to Grade I of Sri Lanka Scientific Service to be appointed to the 
posts in Grade I of Sri Lanka Scientific Service, which remain vacant at the Ministry of Science and Technology.
NB: It is mandatory to have been promoted to Grade I of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service at the time of appointment.
01. No. of vacancies:
S/No. ministry Post Number of v acancies
01 Ministry of Science and technology. director 02
02. Qualifications to be satisfied for promotion:
S/No. Department Post Qualification 
01 Ministry of 
Science and 
technology.
director Shall be an officer in Grade I of Sri Lanka Scientific Service 
at the Skills development, V ocational Education, Research 
and inventions division of the then Ministry of Education, 
Higher Education and V ocational Education, Present Ministry 
of Science and Technology or an officer who has not been 
appointed to a post in Special Grade or in case where there is 
no officer of Sri Lanka Scientific Service who has satisfied the 
relevant qualifications at the present Ministry of Science and 
Technology, an officer in Sri Lanka Scientific Service who 
possesses a Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree in chemistry 
or Physics with a class or Bachelor of Science General degree 
with the subjects of Chemistry or Physics and a Post Graduate 
Degree in any of the said subjects.   

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
512
03. method of selection for the posts:
(i) a  structured interview will be held in which marks will be given to candidates according to the following marking 
scheme approved by the Public Service commission based on the seniority and merit by a board of interview 
appointed by the Public Service Commission.  Decision of the Public Service Commission on filling the vacancies, 
shall be the final. 
04. marking Scheme:
Titles under which marks are given Maximum 
marks
Total 
marks
01.  Seniority 50
1.1. Marks are given for the active and satisfactory period of service in Sri 
Lanka Scientific Service.
	Maximum marks will be allocated to the most senior officer.
	Seniority for            Maximum marks                    
other officers  =    allocated for seniority   x  additional service
                               additional service                 period in 
                                period in Grade                 Grade i of the
                                  I of the most                  relevant officer
                                                       senior officer              (Years x 12+months)
                                                  (Years x 12+months)           
50
     02.  Merit 50
2.1. Following conducted individually or in groups; 
 i. Research publications – 
	local Research Publications - 02 marks for each for a 
maximum of 2 publications 
	international Research Publications - 03 marks for each 
for a maximum of 2 publications 
ii. abstracts 
	local - 2 marks for each for a maximum of 2 abstracts
	international – 2.5 marks for each for a maximum of 2 
abstracts
iii. dissertations – 04 marks for each for a maximum of 1 
dissertation (N.B. : Marks will be given only for the other 
dissertations except for the one submitted for the post graduate 
degree, which was considered for the second Efficiency Bar 
examination or promotion to Grade i)         
iV . innovations - 04 marks for each for a maximum of 2 innovations 
(Head of the department should certify that the relevant 
innovations were successfully introduced under the direction 
of the relevant officers)
V . articles for newspapers / magazines – 2 marks for each for a 
maximum of 2 articles for newspapers / magazines
 Vi. Power Point Presentation of 10 minutes with the use of computer 
on the manner in which the officer intends to contribute to the 
role of the post to which he/ she is selected
04
06
04
05
04
08
04
15

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
513
Titles under which marks are given Maximum 
marks
Total 
marks
                                      i. Relevancy – 03 Marks   
  ii. creativity – 03 Marks          
 iii. innovations & Suggestions – 03 Marks       
 iV . t ime Management – 03 Marks 
  V . Proficiency in English – 03 Marks         
      
Note – 
a) Marks under criteria (v) above can be obtained only if the applicant 
conducts the presentation in English language. 
b) the hard copy of the presentation should be submitted to the interview 
board at the same time. in addition, it is compulsory to submit a hard 
copy of the presentation prepared in English at the same time.
Total marks 100
 
05. The officers selected will be appointed to the above posts, which have fallen vacant in Grade I of the Sri Lanka 
Scientific Service, with effect from the date of assuming duties in the respective posts subject to the general conditions 
governing the appointments in the public service, the terms and conditions stipulated in the Minute of the Sri lanka 
Scientific Service (Published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka No.1877/27 dated 28
th  
august 2014) and the revisions, which have already been made or will be made in the future to the service minute.  
06. Officers who are in active service and have satisfied the minimum qualifications indicated in this notification shall 
strictly be called for the interview. 
07. applications perfected in conformity with the following format should be sent to the “Secretary, Ministry of Public 
administration, Provincial councils and local Government, independence Square, colombo 07” to reach on or before 
02.05.2025. The words “Filling vacancies in Grade I of Sri Lanka Scientific Service” should be written clearly on 
the top left corner of the envelope containing the application. any application received after the due date shall not be 
accepted and no complain that an application has been lost or delayed in post shall be considered. 
08. In case of any inconsistency or contradiction among Sinhala and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala 
notification shall prevail.
09. applications can be downloaded from the web site www.pubad.gov.lk. 
   on the order of the Public Service commission,
S. Alokabandara,  
Secretary,
Ministry of Public administration, Provincial 
councils and local Government, 
colombo 07,
01st of april, 2025. 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
514
Specimen Application
Application for the post of Director in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service in the Ministry of Science and 
t echnology
1. Particulars of the officer
 i. Full name (in English)….......................................................................................................................... 
  (HERatH MUdiyaNSElaGE SaMaN KUMaRa  GUNa W aRdHaNa)
 ii. Name with initials (in English):..............................................................................................................
  (Ex: GUNa W aRdHaNa, H. M. S. K.)
 iii. Full name (in Sinhala): ...........................................................................................................................
 iv. date of birth: ..................................................................
 v. age as at the closing date of application: years....... Months............. days..........................................
 vi. National identity card Number: ............................
 vii. Permanent address: ...............................................................................................................................
  ...............................................................................................................................................................
 viii. telephone number :
  Office: ...........................
  Mobile: ..................................
 ix. Email address: ...............................
2. Particulars of the post: 
 i. current service station and address :
 ii. date of appointment to Grade iii:
 iii. date of appointment to Grade ii:
 iv. Date on which the officer has been appointed to Grade I:
 v. Post held by the officer at present:
 vi. date of appointment to the said post:
3. Seniority 
01 Active and satisfactory period of service in Sri Lanka Scientific 
Service as at the closing date applications
02 active and satisfactory period of service in Grade i of Sri lanka 
Scientific Service as at the closing date applications
03 Whether No pay leave has/ has not been obtained (if obtained, 
mention the dates)
4. Qualifications relevant to the field:
4.1. Special contribution made to the relevant field
	Researches and publications Description Relevant  year
Research publications
 i. local Research publications
ii. international Research publications
abstracts 
 i. local
ii. international
dissertations
innovations
Newspaper articles

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
515
5. Statement of the applicant:
 i hereby certify that the particulars furnished above by me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 date : ............................... ..........................................  
  Signature of the applicant
Part II 
(to be perfected by the Secretary of the Ministry/ Head of the department)
the particulars mentioned in the application submitted by Mr. /Mrs. /Miss. ……………………… in Grade i of Sri lanka 
Scientific Service serving at the Ministry/Department of ……………………………………………………………… are 
correct/ not correct as per the information in the personal file. It is hereby kindly informed that disciplinary action has 
been taken/ has not been taken and is intended / not intended to be taken against him/ her. Further, he/she has earned/ has 
not earned salary increments during the 05 years immediately preceding the date of calling of applications and his/ her 
application is hereby recommended/ not recommended. 
                  ........................................................................ 
    Signature of the Secretary of the Ministry/ Head of the department      
                                                                         
Official stamp
date
04-68
DEPARTmENT  Of   EXAmINATIONS, SRI LANkA
Ahadhiyya Daham Pasal Final Certificate Examination - 2024 (2025)
coNStitUtioN   aNd  REcoMMENdatioN
aPPlicatioNS  are hereby called for the Ahadhiyya Daham Pasal Final Certificate Examination relevant for years 2023 
and 2024.
2. the Examination centres will be set up in the towns mentioned in Schedule - 01 according to the number of 
candidates. In case, there is no sufficient number of candidates in a certain town the centre in said town will be cancelled 
and the candidates will be directed to a nearby centre.
3. Language medium : -
 this examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and in English . a candidate can choose one medium only.
4. Qualifications :-
 Each of the can didates applying for this examination must have fulfilled any of the following qualifications.
4.1 Having passed the 10 th  Grade in an ahadhiyya School registered in the department of Muslim Religious and 
Culture Affairs and engaged in learning activities for a year or so from the subordinates of the Ahadhiyya 
School Final Certificate class.
4.2 Should be passed the Islam as a subject in G.C.E. (O/L) Examination or G.C.E. (A/L) Examination conducted by 
the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka or having passed the Senior School Certificate Examination in 
Islam and Arabic subjects.
Note:- all applicants should submit application with the affirmation of a Principal of Ahadhiyya Daham Pasal 
or Arabic College approved by the Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs as to the candidate 
has acquired the qualifications stipulated in para 4 above.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
516
5. method of Applying:-
5.1 these applications which should be submitted only through the Principal of ahadhiyya daham Pasal or arabic 
college have been sent to the registered ahadhiyya daham Pasal or arabic college by post. application can also be 
downloaded from the department’s web site. (www.doenets.lk ).
5.2 if applications are submitted by a new ahadhiyya daham Pasal or arabic college, a copy of registration 
certificate issued by the Department of Muslim Cultural Affairs should be attached to the application.
5.3 No person will be permitted to appear for the examination as an external candidate. However, a candidate who 
fulfills the qualifications of the 4 th clause above can apply for the examination by paying an examination fee 
of Rs. 200/-. the necessary instructions have been given to the Principals of all ahadhiyya daham Pasal/ arabic 
college.
5.4 the Head teacher of respective ahadhiyya daham Pasal or arabic college should prepare the application in 
two copies. the original copy should be submitted to the commissioner General of Examinations and the second 
copy should be kept with the Principal. Both applications must be signed by the Principal.
5.5 Name of the applicant in the application should be written in accordance with the name mentioned in the birth 
certificate of the applicant and apart from printing errors, the requests for name revision will not be considered 
after issuing results. information given in applications should be clear and accurate. applications submitted 
contrary to the instructions will be rejected without any notification.
5.6 computer number assigned by the department of Examinations for ahadhiyya daham Pasal or arabic college 
and address should be accurately mentioned. any changes in the address of ahadhiyya daham Pasal or 
arabic college should be informed with the contact number which will be convenient to contact the Principal 
of ahadhiyya daham Pasal/ arabic college.
5.7 the Principal of ahadhiyya daham Pasal or arabic college certifying the application and applicant’s 
qualifications will be responsible for the attestation in this regard.
5.8 Receiving of applications will commence on 04th April 2025 will be closed on 05 th may 2025.
5.9 applications should reach the commissioner General of Examinations, institutional Examinations organization 
Branch, department of Examinations - Sri lanka, P.o. Box. 1503, colombo on or before the closing date.
5.10 all applicants should personally check their information and sign the application.
6. Examination Fee :-
The examination fee is Rs. 200/-. The first-time applicants are exempted from this fee. Those who have got an under 
pass must pay Rs. 50/- per subject.
6.1 Payment of Examination Fees: Examination fees of all applicants of the respective ahadhiyya daham Pasal or 
Arabic College should be collected by the Principal and should be paid through any post office on the island. The 
payment should be credited to the revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations, 
and the receipt should be affixed to the application. (It is advisable to keep a copy of the receipt.)
6.2 Fees paid for this examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination under any 
circumstance.
7. Admission Cards :-
the commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to all candidates who are included in the 
examination through the Principals of respective ahadhiyya daham Pasal or arabic college.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
517
7.1 candidates appearing for this examination should handover their duly attested admission cards to the Supervisor 
of the Examination at the initial moment of appearing for the examination. the candidacy of any applicant who 
refrains from handing over the admission card or appearing for the examination in an examination center where 
the commissioner General of Examinations has not assigned for the candidate will be suspended.
7.2 the signature of the candidate in the admission card should be attested by the Principal of respective 
ahadhiyya daham Pasal or arabic college.
7.3 If the admission card is not received 07 days prior to the scheduled date of the examination should be notified in 
that regard to the commissioner General of Examinations by the Principal of respective ahadhiyya daham 
Pasal or arabic college without delay. Such notices should carry the following details together with a photocopy 
of registration receipt.
1.   Name of the examination
2.   Name of the ahadhiyya daham Pasal / arabic college 
3.   address of the ahadhiyya daham Pasal / arabic college
4. computer number assigned for the ahadhiyya daham Pasal / arabic college 
5.   Full name of the applicant
6.   Examination centre / town applied
7. Post office where application was posted 
8.   Registration receipt of letter
9.   Payment receipt if examination fees have been paid
8. Identity : -
 
 candidates should be in a position to prove their identity to the Supervisor of the Examination when appearing for 
each paper. Any of the following documents would be sufficient in this regard.
➢ National Identity Card;
➢  Valid Passport;
➢   Valid Sri lankan driving license.
Candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face so that their identity can be confirmed 
and without covering their ears to be able to verify that they are not wearing electronic communication devices. 
Further, any candidate who refuses to assist for proving his/her identity will not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. the candidates should remain the examination hall from the time of entering to the time of leaving the examination 
hall without covering face and ears.
9. The decision of pass and publishing the final results : -
Number of prescribed subjects for this examination is four and candidates should pass all four subjects to receive pass 
grade. However, if a candidate failed only in one subject out of the total four subjects, He/ She will be considered as an 
underpass candidate. The underpass subject should be passed by the candidate within two (2) consecutive examinations 
from the initial sitting. To complete the underpass subject, the candidates should appear for the underpass subject only.
9.1 100 marks for each paper. Marks are given as follows :
Marks Range Grade Symbol
0-34 Failure F
35-54 Pass S
55-69 credit Pass c
70-100 distinction Pass d
9.2 the results of the candidates will be sent by post to the Principal of ahadhiyya daham Pasal or arabic college.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
518
10. Certificates :-
Arrangements will be made by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka to issue a certificate to those who pass this 
examination. The relevant certificates will be sent by post through the Principal of Ahadhiyya Daham Pasal 
or Arabic College. Any candidate who has passed the examination and has not received a certificate should inquire 
from the department of Examinations in writing through the Principal of ahadhiyya daham Pasal or arabic college 
addressed to the commissioner General of Examinations, institutional Examinations Results Branch, department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka, P.o. Box 1503, colombo.
11. Answer scripts re-scrutiny : -
 Re-scrutiny of answer scripts will be permitted only on a request by the Principal of the ahadhiyya daham Pasal or 
arabic college. Requests for re-scrutiny may be submitted by specimen form issued by the department of 
Examinations within 30 days from issuing of results. charges in this regard would be revised from time to time and 
the prescribed charges will be mentioned in the application. the  applicants or their representatives will not be given 
permission under any circumstance to check the answer scripts.
12. Details of the Examination :- 
this examination will be comprising with four (04) papers. the allotted time for each paper will be three (03) hours. 
the question papers are as follows.
01. Principales and Fundamentals of islam (al aqeedha Was Shareeah) and arabic language 
02. islamic law (al Fiqhul islam)
03. islamic History (asseera Wath thariq) 
04. islamic Values (al ahlaq)
13. Syllabus :
 For more information of the Syllabus (attached as Schedule - 02), related to the ahadhiyya daham Pasal Final 
Certificate Examination.
14. model Papers :
 For more information of the Model Papers, please inquire from the “ director, department of Muslim Religious 
and Cultural Affairs, No. 180, T.B. Jaya Mawatha, Colombo 10.” or inquire at 011-2667909 / 011-2669994.
15. all applicants of the examination are bound by the regulations of this statute and syllabus sheet and any other fact not 
regulated herein shall be determined according to the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text shall 
prevail.
H.J.M.C. Amith Jayasundara,
 commissioner General of Examinations,
department of Examinations - Sri lanka, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, 
04
th   of april 2025.
SChEDuLE - 01
District Number District Town Number Town Name
01 colombo 101 Maradana
102 Bambalapitiya
02 Gampaha 201 Negombo
202 Nittambuwa
03 Kalutara
301 Kalutara
302 Panadura
303 aluthgama

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
519
District Number District Town Number Town Name
04 Kandy 401 Kandy
402 Nawalapitiya
05 Matale 501 Matale
06 Nuwara Eliya 601 Nuwara Eliya
602 Hatton
07 Galle 701 Galle
08 Matara 801 Matara
802 akuressa
09 Hambantota 901 Hambantota
902 Weeraketiya
10 Jaffna 1001 Jaffna
11 Mannar 1101 Mannar
12 Vavuniya 1201 Vavuniya
13 Mullaitivu 1301 Mullaitivu
14 Kilinochchi 1401 Kilinochchi
15 Batticaloa
1501 Kattankudy
1502 Valachchenai
1503 Eravur
16 ampara
1601 ampara
1602 Sammanthurai
1603 irakkamam
1604 Pothuvil
1605 Kalmunai
1606 Nintavur
1607 akkaraipattu
17 t rincomalee
1701 t rincomalee
1702 Muthur
1703 Kinniya
18 Kurunegala
1801 Kurunegala
1802 Narammala
1803 Kuliyapitiya
1804 Siyambalagaskotuwa
19 Puttalam
1901 Puttalam
1902 Madurankuliya
1903 Norachcholai
1904 chilaw
20 anuradhapura
2001 anuradhapura
2003 Kekirawa
2003 Horowpothana
21 Polonnaruwa 2101 Polonnaruwa
2101 Kaduruwela

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
520
District Number District Town Number Town Name
22 Badulla
2201 Badulla
2202 Hali-Ela
2203 Bandarawela
2204 Welimada
23 Monaragala 2301 Bibile
24 Ratnapura
2401 Ratnapura
2402 Eheliyagoda
2403 Rakwana
25 Kegalle
2501 Mawanella
2502 Warakapola
2503 Kannantota
SChEDuLE - 02
first Paper
01. Principales and fundamentals of Islam (Al Aqeedha Was Shareeah) and Arabic Language
 1.1 aqeedha - General understanding ( al iiahiyath, annubuwath, arroohaniyyath and assam’iyyath) 
 1.2 a  Section of aqeedha
•	 aqeedha of ahlussunnah Wal Jama’ath
•	 Few other Aqeeda Section such as : Jabariya, Kadariyya, Murjiya, Mu’tazila and Shee’ah 
1.3 t awheedh and Shirk
	•  iman and Kufr
	•  Riddath, Nifak
	•  History of revelation and compilation of the Qur’an
	•  Use of al - Qur’an as a source of law
	•  Sunna and history of its collection
	•  Utilization of Sunna as source of law
	•  History of Hadees and the contribution of Muhaddis
	•  Details relating to Ijthihad
	•  Ijma as secondary source
	•  Kiyas as a secondary source
	•  History of Fikhu and its imams 
 1.4 arabic language
	•  Writing with proper shapes of alphabets
	•  Writing of small Sentences
	•  Writing of Arabic words having relation to the subject of Islam
	•  Writing of specific Qur’an suras, verses and Hathees
Second Paper
02. Islamic Law (Al fiqhul Islam)
 2.1 details relating to idadath
	•  Kinds of ibathath
	•  thaharath

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
521
 2.2 Najees and its categories
	•  Methods cleaning Najees
	•  Water and its categories
	•  Wulu, thayammam and – Procedures existing relating to bathing
2.3 Zakath
	•  Significance
	•  Rules and regulations
	•  collection and distribution
	•  Minimizing poverty through Zakath and distribution of wealth
 2.4 assawm (Fasting)
• Significance
	•  Rules and regulations and Usefulness
2.5 Hajj
	•  Significance
	•  Rules and regulations
	•  Usefulness
2.6 Hajj - Method of Performance
• Faelu - Wajibu, Sunnath
• Hajj performed in addition to Farlu Hajj
2.7 attention and procedures in islam relating to food, dressing and dwellings.
2.8 Understanding of Jihadh
2.9 Kurbani and methods of slaughter
2.10 oaths relating V ows
2.11 details relating to Muamalath
• dignity of earning
• Main t ransaction
• other transactions ( eg. Borrowing, Rent)
• Wakfu, Wasiyiyath, Warasath (Public Property, testamentary Property, inherited Property)
2.12 Position of man and women in islam
• Marriage laws in islam and their uses
• Family life in islam
• Rights and duties of parents and children
• talaq and idhdha
2.13 Jinayath
• Hudood, Kisas and ta’zeer
Third Paper
03. Islamic history (Asseera Wath Thariq)
3.1 Socio - Religious position in arabian Society in the period before islam
3.1.1 Prophet Mohamed (Sal)
• life before the Nubuwwath
* Family lineage

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
522
* y outh hood
* Marriage
• Life between Nubuwwath and Hijrath
* Nubuwwath
* Propaganda of islam and its outcomes
* Hijrath
• Madina life
* Socio - Political activities
* defensive wars and Peace agreements
* completion of islam
Position of Sahabas and their contribution towards islam
• History and Political contribution of Kulafa Urrashidoon
• Period of rule by Umaiya and abbasiya
• History of Baitul Mukaddas
• History and contribution of Sri lankan Muslims
• Contribution of Muslims to Scientific Knowledge
• History relating to the following personalities
* imam Buhari (Rah)
* Imam Shafi (Rah)
* imam Gassali (Rah)
* imam abdul cader Jeelani (Rah)
* imam Saduli (Rah)
fourth Paper
04. Islamic Values (Al Ahlaq)
4.1 View point of islam on ahlaq
• Understanding ahlaq
• Relationship between iman and ahlaq
• Relationship between ahlaq and ibadath
• Purity of mind (ikhlas)
4.2 t aqwa
• Wara’u and Suhud
• Murakaba, Muhasafa
• Shawq
4.3 charity
•  dedication
•  Gratitude
•  Patience, tolerance, accommodating, pardoning
•  Politeness
•  appreciation of time
•  Safeguarding organs in the body : mouth, eye, ear and sex organs
•  Respecting others
•  Justice and honesty
•  important moral values among youth
•  Harmonious living with people of other
4.4 islamic legal System
04-27

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
523
mINISTR y  Of  PubLIC   SECuRITy  AND  PARLIAmENTAR y  Aff AIRS
Limited Competitive Examination for making Recruitment to Grade II of the Post of Authorized Officer 
of  Segment 2 - Field/Office based Service Category of the Department of  
Immigration and Emigration - 2025
it  is hereby informed that the limited competitive Examination will be held in July 2025 to make recruitment for Grade ii 
of the Post of Authorized Officer, Segment 2 - Field/ Office based service category of the Department of Immigration and 
Emigration.
applications are hereby invited from the eligible citizens of Sri lanka for the limited competitive examination for 
making recruitment to the post of Authorized Officer of the Department of Immigration and Emigration. The application 
form has been published online in "online applications - Recruitment Exams / E.B. Exams" under "our Services" on the 
website www.donets.lk of department of Examinations of Sri lanka and applications may be submitted online only. the 
acceptance of online applications will be commenced at 9.00 a.m. on 07th of April, 2025 and will be closed at 9.00 p.m. 
on 05th of may, 2025.
Officers shall hand over a copy of the application to the Heads of Institutions to include into their personal file, and 
a copy of the Application certified by the Head of Institution and a letter of confirmation of service shall be submitted at the 
event of calling for the interview.
 1. "Head of the Department" in this notification means the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration. Recruitment 
will be made through this examination for Grade II of the post of Authorized Officer of the Department of Immigration 
and Emigration. Unless otherwise specified, the "Post" means Grade II of post of Authorized Officer.
 2. the closing date for the application is 05.05.2025.
2.1 Written Examination - this Examination consists of the following three (03) question papers:
 I. Intelligence Test and General Knowledge ;
 II. English Language ;
 iii. Basic knowledge on computer Science.
2.2 date of Examination :- this examination will be held in colombo in the month of July, 2025. the controller 
General of immigration and Emigration reserves the powers to postpone or cancel this examination.
2.3 interview :-
 i. t en Percent (10%) of the total No. of vacancies will be reserved for female applicants.
 ii. candidates similar to the number of vacancies and who have scored the highest marks on the basis indicated 
in (i) above, out of those who have sat all the question papers of the written examination and scored at least 
40% of marks or above for each question paper will be interviewed by an interview Panel appointed by the 
controller General of immigration and Emigration. (the interview will be conducted only for the purpose 
of verification of qualifications.)
 III. Physical qualifications indicated under No. 6.3 will be examined at the Interview.
 3. Number to be appointed is 45. at the instances where there are candidates, who have scored equal marks for the 
final  vacancy or final few vacancies, exceeding the number of vacancies, the final decision of filling the number 
of vacancies will be made by the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration and the effective date of the 
recruitments will also be determined by the controller General of immigration and Emigration.
 4. Conditions of Service :
4.1 A selected candidate will be appointed to Grade II of the post subjecting to the General conditions which govern 
the appointments of Public Service, provisions of the Establishments code and Financial Regulations, Procedural 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
524
Rules of Public Service commission published in the extraordinary Gazette No. 2310/29 of 14.12.2022, the 
terms and conditions of the Scheme of Recruitment for Grade II of the Post of Authorized Officer, Segment 
2-Field/Office based Service Category of the Department of Immigration and Emigration approved by the Public 
Service commission dated 20.12.2013 and the amendments already made or making in future.
4.2 this post is permanent and pensionable.
4.3 Recruitment will be made to Grade II of the post of Authorized Officer subjecting to three (03) year probationary 
period. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed within three (03) years as mentioned in the Scheme of 
Recruitment.
4.4 Prescribed official language proficiency shall be obtained within five (05) years of joining the service as per 
Public administration circular No. 1/2014 and incidental circulars.
5. monthly Salary Scale :-
Monthly salary scale related to this post as per Schedule i of Public administration circular No. 10/2025 dated 
25.03.2025 is Rs. 58,660-10x1,190-11x1,360-15x1,670-110,570 (MN5 - 2025) the salaries are paid as per Schedule 
ii of such circular in compliance with the provisions of the same. in addition, the other allowances paid to the 
Government officers by the Government from time to time will also be entitled.
6. Qualifications for recruitment :
6.1 
 i.  Shall be a citizen of Sri lanka,
 ii. Shall have an excellent moral character,
 III. Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island.
6.2 Educational qualifications and Experience.-
(i) Should have passed the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six (06) subjects in one sitting with at least 
four (04) credit passes inclusive of Mathematics, English, Sinhala/t amil, language.
And
Should have passed the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination at least in one (01) subject (except General 
Examination).
And
Should have completed an active period of service for not less than ten (10) years in a permanent and 
pensionable post in the Government Service/ Provincial Government Service with a salary scale of  
MN-1/2025 or above as at the final date for fulfilling the qualifications mentioned in the notification of calling 
applications.
Or
Should have possessed a degree from a university recognized by the University Grants commission or from 
an institution recognized by the University Grants commission as an institution for awarding degrees.
And
Should have completed an active period of service for not less than five (05) years in a permanent and 
pensionable post in the Government Service/ Provincial Government Service with a salary scale of  
MN-1/2025 or above as at the final date for fulfilling the qualifications mentioned in the notification of calling 
applications.
Note. -
 I. Effective date of the Degree and the date, on which the aforesaid expected passes have been obtained at the 
G.c.E. (ordinary level/ advanced level) Examinations, shall be a date on or before 05.05.2025, the last date 
of fulfilling qualifications.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
525
 ii.  in calculating the above period of service, relevant and continuous periods of service in the Government 
service and/ or provincial Government services will be accepted.
6.3 Physical Qualifications :-
 i. Male applicants' height shall be at least of 5 feet 4 inches (162.5 cm) and the circumstance of chest shall beat 
least of 32 inches (81.25cm)
 ii. the height of female applicants shall be at least of 5 feet 2 inches (156cm)
6.4 age :
Age limit is not applicable as it is for the officers already serving in the Government Service.
7. Examination fee :
 the examination fee is Rs. 600/-. in making the examination fees, it shall only be paid under the following payment 
methods provided in online system.
 i.  any Bank credit card
 ii.  any Bank debit card with the facility of internet transactions
 iii.  online Banking Method of Bank of ceylon
 iV . any Branch of the Bank of ceylon
Note:-
(a)  instructions for making payments through the above methods have been published in the website under the 
technical instructions related to the examination.
(b) y ou will be informed through an SMS or an email that the payment has been received. the total amount of the 
examination fee shall be paid and applications with overpaid or underpaid examination fees will be rejected. 
the department of Examinations of Sir lanka will not be responsible for any lapses that occur in the payment 
of examination fees through the aforementioned payment methods.
(c) the amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred to another examination for any reason.
8. Method of Application :
 8.1 the online application form for the examination shall be completed only in English. the applicant will be 
informed by sending short message (SMS) to the mobile phone number used to access the system or by sending 
an e-mail to the e-mail address that the soft copy submitted online is accepted/not accepted as a valid application 
by the Department. Before filling the online application. download the instructions prepared for applying for 
the examination. Follow the instructions carefully in filling the application form. Any amendment made to the 
application form after obtaining a printed copy of the same will not be treated as a valid amendment. incomplete 
applications will be rejected without intimation.
 8.2 the post and place of work of the applicant at the event of application for the examination will be applicable for all 
the purposes related to the examination and any changes made in this regard after the submission of applications 
will not be taken into consideration.
 8.3 the commissioner General of examinations will issue admission cards only to the applicants who have sent 
the applications which are completed in every aspect on the presumption that only the persons who passess the 
qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification have applied for this post. A web notice will be published by 
the department of Examinations as soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. if the admission card is not 
received, applicant shall inform the same to the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka in the manner specified 
in the notification. In informing so, the name of the examination applied for, full name, National Identity Card 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
526
number and address of applicant shall be correctly mentioned. it will be more productive to fax a letter of request 
along with a fax number of the applicant to the department of Examinations through the fax number mentioned 
in this notification for sending a copy of the admission card if the applicant is outside Colombo. Further, it will be 
useful to keep a copy of the application and a copy of the receipt obtained making payment of examination fees to 
prove any information requested by the department of Examinations.
9. Admission to the Examination :
9.1 only the applicants who have been issued admission cards by the commissioner General of Examinations will be 
permitted to sit the examination. any candidate who fails to produce his admission card on the date of examination 
will not be permitted to sit the examination. 
9.2 candidate shall sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him/her. Every candidate shall produce his/
her admission card attested and hand it over to the Supervisor of the examination hall on the first day he/she presents 
himself/herself for the examination. a set of rules to be followed by every candidate is published at the beginning of 
this Gazette.
Note : The issuance of an admission card to a candidate is not be constituted as an acknowledgement as the fulfillment of all 
the qualifications requested by this notifications either to sit the examination or to hold a post.
10. Identity of Candidate :
 Candidates shall prove their identity for each subject they sit at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. 
any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose :
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid driving license of Sri lanka
Further, candidates shall enter the examination hall without covering their face and both ears so as to identify them at 
the hall and to get ascertained that they have not wear any electronic communication accessories. those who refuse 
to prove their identity so will not be permitted to enter the examination hall. Further, the candidates shall remain their 
face and both ears uncovered since entering the examination hall until leaving at the end of the examination. 
11. Penalty for furnishing false information :
Application should be filled very carefully and correct information shall be provided. If a candidate is found to be 
ineligible as per the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature will be cancelled at any stage prior 
to, during or after the examination.
12. Any fact not provided for in this notification will be dealt, when necessary, as per the decision of the Controller 
General of immigration and Emigration.
13. Conducting of Examination :
13.1 the Examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English media.
13.2 A candidate shall sit the examination in the language in which the highest qualification was obtained or in an 
official language.
13.3 A candidate, who has passed the subjects of the qualified Degree in two or more languages, he/she shall sit the 
examination in the language in which he/she passed majority of the subjects of the Degree or in any official 
language. 
13.4 A candidate, with a Special Degree, has passed the main subject in one language and the subsidiary subject 
in another language shall sit the examination in the language in which he/she passed the main subject or in an 
official language.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
527
Note :
 (i) The term "Qualified Degree" in 13.2 and 13.3 above refers to the Degree qualification referred to in paragraph 
6.2(ii).
 (ii) a  candidate shall answer in the same language for the two Question papers viz, intelligence t est & General 
knowledge and Basic knowledge on Computer Science other than the Question paper of English subject.
 (iii) a  candidate will not subsequently be permitted to change the medium of language of the examination indicate in 
the application.
14. Method of recruitment
 14.1 Written Examination
A written examination of three (03) question papers including the following subjects will be conducted. 
Candidates shall sit all the subjects of the examination. The subjects and the minimum marks which shall be 
obtained for each subject to pass are as follows:
Subject 
No.
Subject Marks Minimum marks 
required to pass
Duration - 
Hours
01 intelligence test and General Knowledge 100 40 2
02 English language 100 40 2
03 Basic Knowledge on computer science 100 40 1
* Subject No. 01 Intelligence Test and General Knowledge consists of two Question papers of 01 hour each.
14.2 General interview :
 (i) The General interview will be held to verify whether the candidate has fulfilled qualifications for 
recruitment mentioned in No. 6 above. the General interview Panel is appointed by the Head of the 
department.
 (ii) Out of the candidate who have scored a minimum of forty (40%) marks or above for each subject, those 
who score the highest marks as per the aggregate of all the subjects are qualified to appear for the General 
interview. candidate similar to the number of vacancies and on the order of merit shown at the written 
will be called for the General interview. if there are no enough eligible candidates similar to the number 
of vacancies to be filled, only the number of eligible candidates will be called for the interview.
N.b. - Participating in the interview is not constituted as a fulfillment of qualification for awarding appointment.
14.3 Recruitments are made to this post as per the vacancies "on the order of merit of the total marks" obtained 
at the written examination beginning "from the candidate who have secured the highest marks" among the 
candidates who have fulfilled all the qualifications.
14.4 Results
 the Result Sheet prepared as per the merit of the total marks secured by candidates at Examination as per 
paragraphs 14.1 of this Gazette Notification  will be handed over to the controller General of immigration 
and Emigration. Results will be sent personally to all applicants who sat the examination or published in 
the website www.results.exams.gov.lk. Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations regarding conducting the examination and issuance of results. if 
such rules and regulations are violated, he/she will be subject to a punishment imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
528
15. Syllabus of the written examination 
01. intelligence test and General Knowledge - duration 02 hours 100 marks.
 Part i - intelligence test
 a  Question paper to test logical power, Mathematical skills, comprehension and ability to make decisions.
 Part ii - General Knowledge
 a  Question paper with short and/ or Multiple choice questions on the recent economic social and political 
background of Sri Lanka, Global politics, knowledge on science and technology and new scientific inventions etc.
02. English language - duration 02 hours. 100 marks
 a  Question  Paper to test the comprehension, expression and communication Skills.
03. Basic knowledge on computer science - duration 01 hour. 100 marks.
 a  Question paper to test the basic knowledge on computer, usage of software such as Ms Word and Ms Excel, 
knowledge on the usage of internet and e-mail.
16. If there is any inconsistency or incompliance among the Sinhala, Tamil and English notification, action shall be taken 
as per the Sinhala notification.
 B. M. D. Nilusha Balasuriya,
 controller General of immigration and Emigration (actg.)
 department of immigration and Emigration.
27 th  day of March, 2025,
department of immigration and Emigraiton,
"Suhurupaya",
Battaramulla.
04-47/1
___________________________________
mINISTR y  Of  PubLIC   SECuRITy  AND   PARLIAmENTAR y  Aff AIRS
Open Competitive Examination for making Recruitment to Grade II of the Post of Authorized Officer of 
Segment 2 - Field/ Office based Service Category of the Department of  
Immigration and Emigration - 2025
it is hereby informed that the open competitive Examination will be held in July 2025 to make recruitment for the post 
of Authorized Officer Grade II, segment 2 - Field/Office based Service category of the Department of Immigration and 
Emigration.
applications are hereby invited from the eligible citizens of Sri lanka for the open competitive examination for 
making recruitment to the post of Authorized Officer of the Department of Immigration and Emigration. The application 
form has been published online in "online applications - Recruitment Exams / E.B. Exams" under "our Services" on the 
website www.donets.lk of department of Examinations of Sri lanka and applications may be submitted online only. the 
acceptance of online  applications will be commenced at 9.00 a.m. on 07
th  of April, 2025 and will be closed at 9.00 p.m. 
on 05 th  of may, 2025.
Officers already serving in the Government/Provincial Government service shall hand over a copy of the application 
to the Heads of Institutions to include in to their Personal File, and a copy of the Application certified by the Head of 
Institution and a letter of confirmation of service shall be submitted at the event of calling for the interview.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
529
1. "Head of the Department" in this notification means the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration. Recruitment 
will be made through this examination for Grade II of the post of Authorized Officer of the Department of Immigration 
and Emigration. Unless otherwise specified, the "Post" means Grade II of post of Authorized Officer.
2. the closing date for the application is 05.05.2025
2.1 Written Examination : - this Examination consists of the following three (03) question papers.
 i. intelligence test and General Knowledge
 ii. English language 
 iii.  Basic knowledge on computer Science
2.2 date of Examination :- this examination will be held in colombo in the month of July, 2025. the controller 
General of immigration and Emigration reserves the powers to postpone or cancel this examination.
2.3 interview :-
 i. t en Percent (10%) of the total No. of vacancies will be reserved for female applicants.
 ii. candidates similar to the number of vacancies and who have scored the highest marks on the basis indicated 
in (i) above, out of those who have sat all the question papers of the written examination and scored at least 
40% of marks or above for each question paper will be interview by an interview Panel appointed by the 
controller General of immigration and Emigration. (the interview will be conducted only for the purpose 
of verification of qualifications.)
 III. Physical qualifications indicated under No. 6.3 will be examined at the Interview.
3. Number to be appointed is 68. at the instances where there are candidates, who have scored equal marks for the 
vacancy or final few vacancies, exceeding the number of vacancies the final decision of filling the number of vacancies 
will be made by the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration and the effective date of the recruitment will 
also be determined by the controller General of immigration and Emigration.
4. Conditions of Service :
4.1 A selected candidate will be appointed to Grade II of the post subjecting to the General conditions which govern 
the appointments of Public Service, provisions of the Establishments code and Financial Regulations, Procedural 
Rules of Public Service commission published in the extraordinary Gazette No. 2310/29 of 14.12.2022, the 
terms and conditions of the Scheme of Recruitment for Grade II of the Post of Authorized Officer, Segment 
2-Field/Office based Service Category of the Department of Immigration and Emigration approved by the Public 
Service commission dated 20.12.2013 and the amendments already made or making in future.
4.2 this post is permanent and pensionable.  However, new appointees shall be subjected to the policy decisions that 
will be made by the Government in future regarding the Pension Scheme to be awarded to them.
4.3 Recruitment will be made to Grade II of the post of Authorized Officer subjecting to three (03) year probationary 
period. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed within three (03) years as mentioned in the Scheme of 
Recruitment.
4.4 Prescribed official language proficiency shall be obtained within five (05) years of joining the service as per 
Public administration circular No. 1/2014 and incidental circulars.
5. monthly Salary Scale :-
Monthly salary scale related to this post as per Schedule i of Public administration circular No. 10/2025 dated 
25.03.2025 is Rs. 58,660-10x1,190-11x1,360-15x1,670-110,570 (MN5 - 2025) the salaries are paid as per Schedule ii 
of such circular in compliance with the provisions of the same. in addition, the other allowances paid to the government 
officers by the Government from time to time will also be entitled.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
530
6. Qualifications for recruitment :-
6.1 
 i.  Shall be a citizen of Sri lanka,
 ii. Shall have an excellent moral character,
 III. Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island.
6.2 Educational qualifications.-
 (i) Shall have possessed a degree from a university recognized by the University Grants commission or from an 
institution recognized by the University Grant commission as an institution for awarding degrees.
  and
 (ii) Shall have obtained a credit pass for English language at the G.c.E. (ordinary level) Examination.
Note.- Effective date of the Degree and date, on which Credit Pass for English Language has been obtained at the G.C.E. 
(Ordinary Level) Examination, shall be a date on or before 05.05.2025, the last date of fulfilling qualifications.
6.3 Physical Qualifications :-
 i. Male applicants' height shall be at least of 5 feet 4 inches (162.5 cm) and the circumference of chest shall beat 
least of 32 inches (81.25cm)
 ii. the height of female applicants shall be at least of 5 feet 2 inches (156cm)
6.4 age :-
age shall not be less than twenty one (21) years and not more than thirty Five (35) years as at the closing date 
of applications. accordingly, only the candidates, whose date of birth falls on or before 05.05.2004 or whose date 
of birth falls on after 06.05.1990, are qualified for applying.
7. Examination fee :
 the examination fee is Rs. 600/-. in making the examination fees, it shall only be paid under the following payment 
methods provided in online system.
 i.  any Bank credit card
 ii.  any Bank debit card with the facility of internet transactions
 iii.  online Banking Methods of Bank of ceylon
 iV . any Brach of the Bank of ceylon
Note:-
(a)  instructions for making payments through the above mentioned have been published in the website under the 
technical instructions related to the examination.
(b) y ou will be informed through an SMS or an email that the payment has been received. the total amount of the 
examination fee shall be paid and applications with overpaid or underpaid examination fees will be rejected. 
the department of Examinations of Sir lanka will not be responsible for any lapses that occur in the payment 
of examination fees through the aforementioned payment methods.
(c) the amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred to another examination for any reason.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
531
8. Method of Application :
 8.1 the online application form for the examination shall be completed only in English. the applicant will be 
informed by sending a short message (SMS) to the mobile phone number used to access the system or by sending 
an e-mail to the e-mail address that the soft copy submitted online in accepted/not accepted as a valid application 
by the Department. Before filling the online application. download the instructions prepared for applying for 
the examination. Follow the instructions carefully in filling the application form. Any amendment made to the 
application form after obtaining a printed copy of the same will not be treated as a valid amendment. incomplete 
applications will be rejected without intimation.
 8.2 the commissioner General of examination applications will issue only online admission cards to the applicants 
who have sent the applications which are completed in every aspect on the presumption that only the persons 
who possess the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification have applied for this post. A web notice 
will be published by the department of Examinations as soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. if the 
admission card is not received, applicant shall inform the same to the department of Examinations of Sri lanka 
in the manner specified in the notification. In informing so, the name of the examination applied for, full name, 
National identity card number and address of applicant shall be correctly mentioned. it will be more productive 
to fax a letter of request along with a fax number of the applicant to the department of Examinations through 
the fax number mentioned in this notification for sending a copy of the admission card if the applicant is outside 
colombo, Further, it will be useful to keep a copy of the application and a copy of the receipt obtained making 
payment of examination fees to prove any information requested by the department of Examinations.
9. Admission to the Examination :
9.1 only the applicants who have been issued admission cards by the commissioner General of Examinations 
will be permitted to sit the examination. any candidate who fails to produce his admission card on the date of 
examination will not be permitted to sit the examination. 
9.2 candidates shall sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him/her. Every candidate shall produce 
his/her admission card attested and hand it over to the Supervisor of the examination hall on the first day he/she 
presents himself/herself for the examination. a set of rules to be followed by every candidate is published at the 
beginning of this Gazette.
Note : The issuance of an admission card to a candidated is not be constitute as an acknowledgement as the fulfillment of all 
the qualifications requested by this notification either to sit the examination or to hold a post.
10. Identity of Candidate
Candidates shall prove their identity for each subject they sit at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. 
any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose :
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid driving license of Sri lanka
Further, candidates shall enter the examination hall without covering their face and both ears so as to identify them at 
the hall and to get ascertained that they have not wear any electronic communication accessories. those who refuse 
to prove their identity so will not be permitted to enter the examination hall. Further, the candidates shall remain their 
face and both ears uncovered since entering the examination hall until leaving at the end of the examination. 
11. Penalty for furnishing false information :
 Application should be filled very carefully and correct information shall be provided. If a candidate is found to be 
ineligible as per the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature will be cancelled at any stage prior 
to, during or after the examination.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
532
12. Any fact not provided for in this notification will be dealt, when necessary, as per the decision of the Controller 
General of immigration and Emigration.
13. Conducting of Examiation:
13.1 the Examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English media.
13.2 A candidate shall sit the examination in the language of the Degree in which he/she qualified or in an official 
language.
13.3 A candidate, who has passed the subjects of the qualified Degree in two or more languages, he/she shall sit 
the examination in the language in which he/she passed majority of the subjects of the Degree or in an official 
language. 
13.4 A candidate, with a Special Degree, has passed the main subject in one language and the subsidiary subject in 
another language shall sit the examination in the language in which he/she passed the main subject or in an 
official language.
Note :
 (i) The term "Qualified Degree" in 13.2 and 13.3 above refers to the Degree qualification referred to in paragraph 
6.2(i).
 (ii) a  candidate shall answer in the same language for the two Question papers viz, intelligence test & General 
knowledge and Basic knowledge on Computer Science other than the Question paper of English subject.
 (iii) a  candidate will not subsequently be permitted to change the medium of language of the examination indicated 
in the application.
14. Method of recruitment :
14.1 Written Examination :-
A written examination of three (03) question papers including the following subjects will be conducted. 
Candidate shall sit all the subjects of the examination. The subjects and the minimum marks which shall be 
obtained for each subject to pass are as follows:
Subject 
No.
Subject Marks Minimum marks 
required to pass
Duration - Hours
01 intelligence test and General 
Knowledge
100 40 2
02 English language 100 40 2
03 Basic Knowledge on computer 
Science
100 40 1
* Subject No. 01 Intelligence Test and General Knowledge consists of two Question papers of 01 hour each.
14.2 General interview :
 (i) The General interview will be held to verify whether the candidate has fulfilled qualifications for recruitment 
mentioned in No. 6 above. the General interview Panel is appointed by the Head of the department.
 (ii) Out of the candidates who have scored a minimum of forty (40%) marks or above for each subject, those 
who score the highest marks as per the aggregate of all the subjects are qualified to appear for the General 
interview. candidates similar to the number of vacancies and on the order of merit shown at the written 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
533
will be called for the General interview. if there are no enough eligible candidates similar to the number of 
vacancies to be filled, only the number of eligible candidates will be called for the interview.
N.B. - Participating in the interview is not constituted as fulfillment of qualification for awarding appointment.
14.3 Recruitment are made to this post as per the vacancies "on the order of merit of the total marks" obtained at the 
written examination beginning "from the candidate who have secured the highest marks" among the candidates 
who have fulfilled all the qualifications.
14.4 Results :
 the Result Sheet prepared as per the merit of the total marks secured by candidates at Examination as per 
paragraphs 14.1 of this Gazette Notification will be handed over to the Controller General of Immigration and 
Emigration. Results will be sent personally to all applicants who sat the examination or published in the website 
www.results.exams.gov.lk. Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations regarding conducting the examination and issuance of results. if such rules and 
regulations are violated, he/she will be subject to a punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations. 
15. Syllabus of the written examination :
01. Intelligence Test and General Knowledge - duration 02 hours. 100 marks.
 Part i - intelligence test
 a  Question paper to test logical power, Mathematical skills, comprehension and ability to make decisions.
 Part ii - General Knowledge
 a  Question paper with short and/ or Multiple choice questions on the recent Economic Social and Political 
information of Sri Lanka, Global Politics, Knowledge on Science and Technology and New Scientific Inventions 
etc.
02. english Language - duration 02 hours. 100 marks
 a  Question  Paper to test the comprehension, Expression and communication Skills.
03. Basic Knowledge on Computer Science - duration 01 hour. 100 marks.
 a  Question paper to test the Basic Knowledge on computer, usage of software such as Ms Word and Ms Excel, 
knowledge on the usage of internet and e-mail.
16. If there is any inconsistency or incompliance among the Sinhala, Tamil and English notifications the Sinhala 
Notification shall prevail in such a situation action shall be taken as per the Sinhala notification.
 B. M. D. Nilusha Balasooriya,
 controller General ( Actg.)
 department of immigration and Emigration.
27th day of March, 2025,
department of immigration and Emigration,
"Suhurupaya",
Battaramulla.
04-47/2

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'04'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2025
534
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be re-
ceived for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will 
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if pub-
lication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous 
of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed 
for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2025
 APRIL  04.04.2025 Friday — 21.03.2025 Friday 12 noon
  11.04.2025 Friday –– 28.03.2025 Friday 12 noon
  17.04.2025 thursday –– 04.04.2025 Friday 12 noon
  25.04.2025 Friday –– 11.04.2025 Friday 12 noon
 mAy  02.05.2025 Friday — 17.04.2025 thursday 12 noon
  09.05.2025 Friday –– 25.04.2025 Friday 12 noon
  16.05.2025 Friday –– 02.05.2025 Friday 12 noon
  23.05.2025 Friday –– 09.05.2025 Friday 12 noon
  30.05.2025 Friday –– 16.05.2025 Friday 12 noon
 JuNE  06.06.2025 Friday — 23.05.2025 Friday 12 noon
  13.06.2025 Friday –– 30.05.2025 Friday 12 noon
  20.06.2025 Friday –– 06.06.2025 Friday 12 noon
  27.06.2025 Friday –– 13.06.2025 Friday 12 noon
  
  
 K. G. Pradeep Pushpa Kumara,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
02nd January, 2025.
PRiNtEd   at   tHE   dEPaRtMENt   oF   GoVERNMENt   PRiNtiNG,   SRi laNKa.