

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2443$30 - 2025 cQ,s ui 01 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2025.07'01
No. 2443/30  -  TUESDAY,  JULY 01, 2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A - G 44718 - 05 (07/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
V ALUE   ADDED   TAX   ACT,   No.  14   OF   2002
BY  virtue of  the powers vested in me under sub-section (1B) of section 26 of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 as 
last amended by the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 04 of 2025 (hereinafter referred to as “V AT Act”), I, Rukdevi 
Perpetua Himali Fernando, Commissioner General of Inland Revenue do by this order specify matters relating to and the 
manner in which tax is calculated and payable in respect of Value Added Tax on Supply of services by a Non-resident person 
through an electronic platform to a person in Sri Lanka as set out in the Schedule hereto with effect from October 01, 2025.
	 Rukdevi	Perpetua	Himali	Fernando,	
                                   Commissioner General of Inland Revenue.
Inland Revenue Department, 
Colombo 02,
June 30, 2025.
Schedule
Procedure for Collecting and Paying Value Added Tax on the Supply of Services by a Non- resident Person through 
an Electronic Platform in Sri Lanka.
1. Supply of Services through an Electronic Platform

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.07.2025
2A
 1.1. Value Added Tax (hereinafter referred to as “V AT”) shall be charged and levied on the Supply of Services by 
a non-resident person through an electronic platform to a person in Sri Lanka, with effects from October 01, 
2025 as stipulated in the V AT Act.
 1.2. The applicable Value Added Tax rate is the rate set out in the Subsection (1) of Section 2 of the V AT Act. The 
currently applicable V AT rate is 18%. 
 1.3. The following services supply through an Electronic Platform are treated as taxable supply, but not limited 
to:
 i. Cloud Computing: Hosting, storage and computing power services,
 ii. Software as a service (SaaS): Web-based applications,
 iii. E-commerce Services: Online stores, payment gateways, and order fulfilment services,
 iv. Digital Marketing and advertising: SEO, social media marketing, PPC ads, and email marketing,
 v. Cybersecurity Services: Threat detection, firewall protection, and data encryption,
 vi. IT Support & Managed Services: Remote tech support, IT consulting, and helpdesk solutions,
 vii. Streaming Services: Video, music, live content platforms, 
 viii.  Financial Technology (FinTech): online banking, payment processors (PayPal, Stripe, and crypto currency 
exchanges),
 ix. E-commerce Platforms,
 x. Social Media Platforms,
 xi. On-Demand Service Platforms,
 xii. Content Sharing Platforms,
 xiii. Cloud collaboration platforms,
 xiv. Marketplace Platforms,
 xv. Gaming Platforms,
 xvi. Blockchain & NFT Platforms: OpenSea, Binance, Ethereum-based Apps,
 xvii. Subscription to membership websites,
 xviii. Use of apps for hotel reservation, ticket booking.
 Note: Even if a service is not listed above, it may still be subject to V AT if it falls within the scope described under 
 item 1.1
2.  V AT Registration Requirements
 2.1. Before registering with V AT, Non-resident person requires to obtain a  Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)
 2.2. Obtaining TIN and V AT Registration can be done through the e-service (use IRD’s web portal www.ird.gov.lk). 
 2.3. A non - resident person who supplies services through an electronic platform to consumers in Sri Lanka must 
register for V AT, if the value of services supplied exceeds the threshold of Rs. 60,000,000 (Sixty Million Sri 
Lankan Rupees) within the last twelve months, or Rs. 15,000,000 (Fifteen Million Sri Lankan Rupees) within  
the last three months, as stipulated by the V AT Act.
 2.4. Non-resident persons are responsible for collecting and remiting the V AT on their supply of services through 
an electronic platform not later than the twentieth day of the month following the end of the taxable period.
 2.5. Non-resident persons should file V AT returns not later than the last day of the month after expiry of each taxable 
period (Quarterly basis).
3. Registration Certificate
 3.1 Subject to the fulfillment of requirements mentioned under item 2, the non-resident person shall submit an 
application for registration in the relevant form through e-service. The nonresident person shall provide 
information to the Commissioner-General as may be required. 
 3.2 The Commissioner-General may register an applicant whom the Commissioner-General considers to have 
fulfilled the requirements for registration and assign the person a Registration Number.
 3.3 The Commissioner General shall issue a registration certificate to the non-resident person who receives a 
registration number. 
 3.4  Where the Commissioner-General refuses to register a person who has applied for registration, the                
Commissioner- General shall serve the person with written notice of the refusal of making the decision with 
reasons.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.07.2025
3A
4. V AT Rate and Calculation
 4.1 The current standard V AT rate in Sri Lanka is 18%.
 4.2 V AT is calculated as: V AT = (Total Value of Service) x 18%
 4.3 The value of supply of service should clearly indicate whether V AT is included or added separately.
 4.4 The registered non-resident person should issue V AT Invoice (Tax Invoices) by mentioning the information 
specified under section 20 of the V AT Act,
5. Value of Supply of Service
 5.1 The value of the supply of services should be determined primarily in accordance with Section 5 of the V AT 
Act.
 5.2 The “Value of Supply” in the context of services provided by Non-resident person through an electronic 
platform refers to the total consideration (i.e., payment) received or receivable by the non-resident supplier 
or electronic platform operator for the services supplied to person in Sri Lanka, excluding Value Added Tax 
(V AT) charged under the V AT Act. 
 5.3 For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that when a non-resident person provides services through 
an electronic platform by facilitating the supply of goods or services between a consumer in Sri Lanka 
and the supplier (hereinafter referred to as the “original service supplier” for services), the value of the                        
non-resident person’s supply excludes the value of the goods or services supplied by the original service 
supplier, regardless of whether the total consideration has been collected by the non-resident person. In such 
cases, the supply of goods or supply of services (as defined in Section 83 of the V AT Act) should occur directly 
between the consumer in Sri Lanka and the supplier of the goods or the original service supplier, as the case 
may be, excluding the services provided by the non-resident person.
6. Collection and Remittance of V AT
 6.1 Non-resident person who provides supply of services through an electronic platform shall charge V AT from 
consumers at the time of supply (Section 4 of the V AT Act) of service.
 6.2 Whether the non-resident person has collected V AT during a month or not, the amount due on the supply of 
services must be remitted to the designated bank accounts of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue 
no later than the twentieth day of the month following the end of the taxable period.
 6.3 Payments should be made either in Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR) or any other approved currencies by Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka.
7. Return Filing and Record Keeping
 7.1 Non-resident person must ensure V AT is properly accounted for and recorded in their financial statements.
 7.2 V AT registered entities must maintain records of all supply of services through an electronic platform to 
customer in Sri Lanka.
 7.3 Supply of services records should include the information required in V AT schedule 01 (Output tax) which 
is available in Inland Revenue Department (IRD) web portal
 7.4 The records may be maintained outside the territory of Sri Lanka and such records must be retained for a 
minimum period of five (5) years for the purpose of audit and compliance.
 7.5 Service Providers may be required to submit additional supporting documents if requested by the IRD during 
compliance verification.
 7.6 Any changes in business operations, such as address or nature of services, must be promptly updated with 
the IRD.
 7.7 Filing of V AT returns must be done electronically with relevant V AT schedules through the IRD’s e-service 
facility as set out in the section 21 of the V AT Act.
 7.8 The V AT return filing period (Taxable period) shall be a period of three months (quarterly) and V AT Return 
should be filed not later than the last day of the month after expiry of each taxable period.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.07.2025
4A
8. Penalties for Non-Compliance
 8.1 The penalties shall be imposed on late payments under section 27 of the V AT Act,
 8.2 The IRD reserves the right to enforce collection measures for outstanding V AT liabilities as set out in the 
Chapter VIII of the V AT Act.
 8.3 Continuous non-compliance may lead to service restrictions or blacklisting from providing service in Sri 
Lanka.
9. Cancellation of Registration
 9.1 Registration shall be cancelled when ceases to provide services by non-resident person through an electronic 
platform to persons in Sri Lanka.
 9.2 The non-resident person who has ceased provide services through an electronic platform to persons in Sri 
Lanka is required to notify Commissioner General of Inland Revenue within thirty days from the date of 
such occurrence.
 9.3  Where the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue is satisfied on the request of cancellation of registration, 
Commissioner General may cancel the registration. As well as the registration of any person may also be 
cancelled by Commissioner General of Inland Revenue if it is found that the registered non-resident person 
is not liable or eligible to be registered.
 9.4 Commissioner General of Inland Revenue shall notify the approval and the effective date of cancellation.
EOG 07 - 0013
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.