

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1840$1 - 2013 foieïn¾ ui 09 jeks i÷od - 2013'12'09
No. 1840/1  - MONDAY ,  DECEMBER  09,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No.  15  OF  1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs),  published herewith for the purpose of the
Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. These Standards shall be effective for audits of financial
statements for periods beginning on or after the first day of January Two Thousand Fourteen.
By  Order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
Secretary
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
9th December, 2013.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS1
Access controls .—Procedures designed to restrict access to on-line terminal devices, programs and data. Access
controls consist of “user authentication” and “user authorization.” “User authentication” typically attempts to identify a
user through unique logon identifications, passwords, access cards or biometric data. “User authorization” consists of
access rules to determine the computer resources each user may access. Specifically, such procedures are designed to
prevent or detect:
(a) Unauthorized access to on-line terminal devices, programs and data;
(b) Entry of unauthorized transactions;
(c) Unauthorized changes to data files;
(d) The use of computer programs by unauthorized personnel; and
(e) The use of computer programs that have not been authorized.
N.B. Sinhala and Tamil versionss of this Extraordinary Gazette are published seperately
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
N.B.— Gazette Extraordinary Series No. 1839/1 ends with 1839/50.
1A - PG 1864 - (12/2013)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
2A
*Accounting estimate .—An approximation of a monetary amount in the absence of a precise means of measurement.
This term is used for an amount measured at fair value where there is estimation uncertainty, as well as for other amounts that
require estimation. Where SLAuS 540
2 addresses only accounting estimates involving measurement at fair value, the term
“fair value accounting estimates” is used.
*Accounting records .—The records of initial accounting entries and supporting records, such as cheques and
records of electronic fund transfers; invoices; contracts; the general and subsidiary ledgers, journal entries and other
adjustments to the financial statements that are not reflected in formal journal entries; and records such as work sheets and
spreadsheets supporting cost allocations, computations, reconciliations and disclosures.
Agreed-upon procedures engagement —An engagement in which an auditor is engaged to carry out those procedures
of an audit nature to which the auditor and the entity and any appropriate third parties have agreed and to report on factual
findings. The recipients of the report form their own conclusions from the report by the auditor. The report is restricted to
those parties that have agreed to the procedures to be performed since others, unaware of the reasons for the procedures
may misinterpret the results.
*Analytical procedures .—Evaluations of financial information through analysis of plausible relationships among
both financial and non-financial data. Analytical procedures also encompass such investigation as is necessary of identified
fluctuations or relationships that are inconsistent with other relevant information or that differ from expected values by a
significant amount.
Annual report .—A document issued by an entity, ordinarily on an annual basis, which includes its financial
statements together with the auditor’s report thereon.
*Anomaly .—A misstatement or deviation that is demonstrably not representative of misstatements or deviations in
a population.
*Applicable financial reporting framework  .—The financial reporting framework adopted by management and,
where appropriate, those charged with governance in the preparation of the financial statements that is acceptable in view of
the nature of the entity and the objective of the financial statements, or that is required by law or regulation.
The term “fair presentation framework” is used to refer to a financial reporting framework that requires compliance
with the requirements of the framework and:
(a) Acknowledges explicitly or implicitly that, to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements, it may be
necessary for management to provide disclosures beyond those specifically required by the framework; or
(b) Acknowledges explicitly that it may be necessary for management to depart from a requirement of the framework
to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements. Such departures are expected to be necessary only in
extremely rare circumstances.
The term “compliance framework” is used to refer to a financial reporting framework that requires compliance with
the requirements of the framework, but does not contain the acknowledgements in (a) or (b) above.
Application controls in information technology . — Manual or automated procedures that typically operate at a
business process level. Application controls can be preventative or detective in nature and are designed to ensure the
integrity of the accounting records.
Accordingly, application controls relate to procedures used to initiate, record, process and report transactions or
other financial data.
*Applied criteria (in the context of SLAuS 810
3) .— The criteria applied by management in the preparation of the
summary financial statements.
*Appropriateness (of audit evidence) .— The measure of the quality of audit evidence; that is, its relevance and its
reliability in providing support for the conclusions on which the auditor’s opinion is based.
* Denotes a term defined in the SLAuSs.
+ Denotes a term defined in SLSQC 1.
1 In the case of public sector engagements, the terms in this glossary should be read as referring to their public sector equiva lents.
Where accounting terms have not been defined in this document, reference should be made to the glossary of terms of Sri Lanka
Accounting Standards.
2 SLAuS 540, "Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures."

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
3A
*Arm’ s length transaction .— A transaction conducted on such terms and conditions as between a willing buyer
and a willing seller who are unrelated and are acting independently of each other and pursuing their own best interests.
*Assertions .— Representations by management, explicit or otherwise, that are embodied in the financial statements,
as used by the auditor to consider the different types of potential misstatements that may occur.
Assess .— Analyze identified risks of, to conclude on their significance. “Assess,” by convention, is used only in
relation to risk. (also see Evaluate)
Association .— (see Auditor association with financial information)
*†Assurance .— (see Reasonable assurance)
Assurance engagement .— An engagement in which a practitioner expresses a conclusion designed to enhance
the degree of confidence of the intended users other than the responsible party about the outcome of the evaluation or
measurement of a subject matter against criteria. The outcome of the evaluation or measurement of a subject matter is the
information that results from applying the criteria (also see Subject matter information). Under the “Sri Lanka Framework
for Assurance Engagements” there are two types of assurance engagement a practitioner is permitted to perform: a
reasonable assurance engagement and a limited assurance engagement.
Reasonable assurance engagement . — The objective of a reasonable assurance engagement is a reduction in
assurance engagement risk to an acceptably low level in the circumstances of the engagement
4 as the basis for a positive
form of expression of the practitioner’s conclusion.
Limited assurance engagement . — The objective of a limited assurance engagement is a reduction in assurance
engagement risk to a level that is acceptable in the circumstances of the engagement, but where that risk is greater than
for a reasonable assurance engagement, as the basis for a negative form of expression of the practitioner’s conclusion.
Assurance engagement risk . — The risk that the practitioner expresses an inappropriate conclusion when the
subject matter information is materially misstated.
*Audit documentation—The record of audit procedures performed, relevant audit evidence obtained, and conclusions
the auditor reached (terms such as “working papers” or “workpapers” are also sometimes used).
*Audit evidence .— Information used by the auditor in arriving at the conclusions on which the auditor’s opinion
is based. Audit evidence includes both information contained in the accounting records underlying the financial statements
and other information. ( See Sufficiency of audit evidence and Appropriateness of audit evidence .)
*Audit file .—  One or more folders or other storage media, in physical or electronic form, containing the records that
comprise the audit documentation for a specific engagement.
*†Audit firm .— (see Firm)
*Audit opinion .— (see Modified opinion and Unmodified opinion)
*Audit risk .—The risk that the auditor expresses an inappropriate audit opinion when the financial statements are
materially misstated. Audit risk is a function of the risks of material misstatement and detection risk.
*Audit sampling (sampling) .— The application of audit procedures to less than 100% of items within a population
of audit relevance such that all sampling units have a chance of selection in order to provide the auditor with a reasonable
basis on which to draw conclusions about the entire population.
*Audited financial statements (in the context of SLAuS 810) . — Financial statements
5 audited by the auditor in
accordance with SLAuSs, and from which the summary financial statements are derived.
3 SLAuS 810, "Engagements to Report on Summary Financial Statements."
4 Engagement circumstances include the terms of the engagement, including whether it is a reasonable assurance engagement, the
characteristics of the subject matter, the criteria to be used, the needs of the intended users, relevant characteristics of th e responsible
party and its environment, and other matters, for example evetns, transactions, conditions and practices, that may have a signi ficant
effect on the engagement.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
4A
5 SLAuS 200, "Overall Objectives of the independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,' paragraph 13(f) defines the term "financial statements."
6 "Partner" and "firm" should be read as referring to their public sector equivalents where relevant.
*Auditor . —” Auditor” is used to refer to the person or persons conducting the audit, usually the engagement
partner or other members of the engagement team, or, as applicable, the firm. Where a SLAuS expressly intends that a
requirement or responsibility be fulfilled by the engagement partner, the term “engagement partner” rather than “auditor” is
used. “Engagement partner” and “firm” are to be read as referring to their public sector equivalents where relevant.
Auditor association with financial information . — An auditor is associated with financial information when the
auditor attaches a report to that information or consents to the use of the auditor’s name in a professional connection.
*Auditor’ s expert .— An individual or organization possessing expertise in a field other than accounting or auditing,
whose work in that field is used by the auditor to assist the auditor in obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence. An
auditor’s expert may be either an auditor’s internal expert (who is a partner
6 or staff, including temporary staff, of the auditor’s
firm or a network firm), or an auditor’s external expert.
*Auditor’ s point estimate or auditor’ s range .— The amount, or range of amounts, respectively, derived from audit
evidence for use in evaluating management’s point estimate.
*Auditor’ s range .— (see Auditor’s point estimate)
GLOSSARY
*Business risk . — A risk resulting from significant conditions, events, circumstances, actions or inactions that
could adversely affect an entity’s ability to achieve its objectives and execute its strategies, or from the setting of inappropriate
objectives and strategies.
*Comparative financial statements .— Comparative information where amounts and other disclosures for the prior
period are included for comparison with the financial statements of the current period but, if audited, are referred to in the
auditor’s opinion. The level of information included in those comparative financial statements is comparable with that of the
financial statements of the current period.
*Comparative information .— The amounts and disclosures included in the financial statements in respect of one
or more prior periods in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
Compilation engagement . — An engagement in which accounting expertise, as opposed to auditing expertise, is
used to collect, classify and summarize financial information.
*Complementary user entity controls . — Controls that the service organization assumes, in the design of its
service, will be implemented by user entities, and which, if necessary to achieve control objectives, are identified in the
description of its system.
*Compliance framework . — ( see Applicable financial reporting framework and General purpose framework )
*Component . — An entity or business activity for which group or component management prepares financial
information that should be included in the group financial statements.
*Component auditor .— An auditor who, at the request of the group engagement team, performs work on financial
information related to a component for the group audit.
*Component management . — Management responsible for the preparation of the financial information of a
component.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
5A
*Component materiality .— The materiality for a component determined by the group engagement team.
Computer-assisted audit techniques . — Applications of auditing procedures using the computer as an audit tool
(also known as CAATs).
Control activities .— Those policies and procedures that help ensure that management directives are carried out.
Control activities are a component of internal control.
Control environment . — Includes the governance and management functions and the attitudes, awareness and
actions of those charged with governance and management concerning the entity’s internal control and its importance in the
entity. The control environment is a component of internal control.
*Control risk — (see Risk of material misstatement)
Corporate governance — (see Governance)
*Corresponding figures .— Comparative information where amounts and other disclosures for the prior period are
included as an integral part of the current period financial statements, and are intended to be read only in relation to the
amounts and other disclosures relating to the current period (referred to as “current period figures”). The level of detail
presented in the corresponding amounts and disclosures is dictated primarily by its relevance to the current period figures.
Criteria .— The benchmarks used to evaluate or measure the subject matter including, where relevant, benchmarks
for presentation and disclosure. Criteria can be formal or less formal. There can be different criteria for the same subject
matter. Suitable criteria are required for reasonably consistent evaluation or measurement of a subject matter within the
context of professional judgment.
Suitable criteria—Exhibit the following characteristics:
(a) Relevance: relevant criteria contribute to conclusions that assist decision-making by the intended users.
(b) Completeness: criteria are sufficiently complete when relevant factors that could affect the conclusions in the
context of the engagement circumstances are not omitted. Complete criteria include, where relevant, benchmarks
for presentation and disclosure.
(c) Reliability: reliable criteria allow reasonably consistent evaluation or measurement of the subject matter including,
where relevant, presentation and disclosure, when used in similar circumstances by similarly qualified
practitioners.
(d) Neutrality: neutral criteria contribute to conclusions that are free from bias.
(e) Understandability: understandable criteria contribute to conclusions that are clear, comprehensive, and not
subject to significantly different interpretations.
*Date of approval of the financial statements .— The date on which all the statements that comprise the financial
statements, including the related notes, have been prepared and those with the recognized authority have asserted that they
have taken responsibility for those financial statements.
†Date of report (in relation to quality control) . — The date selected by the practitioner to date the report.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
6A
7 SLAuS 700, "Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements."
8 SLAus 805, "Special Consideratins .— Audits of Single Financial Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts or Items of a Financ ial
Statement."
9 "Engagement partner," "partner", and "firm" should be read as referring  to their public sector equivalents where relevant.
10 SLSuS 620, "Using the Work of an Auditor's Expert," paragraph 6(a) defines the term "auditor's expert."
*Date of the auditor’ s report .— The date the auditor dates the report on the financial statements in accordance
with SLAuS 700.7
*Date of the financial statements . —The date of the end of the latest period covered by the financial statements.
* Date the financial statements are issued.— The date that the auditor report and auditor Financial Statements are
made available to third parties.
GLOSSARY
 Deficiency in internal control—This exists when:
(a) A control is designed, implemented or operated in such a way that it is unable to prevent, or detect and correct,
misstatements in the financial statements on a timely basis; or
(b) A control necessary to prevent, or detect and correct, misstatements in the financial statements on a timely
basis is missing.
*Detection risk .— The risk that the procedures performed by the auditor to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low
level will not detect a misstatement that exists and that could be material, either individually or when aggregated with other
misstatements.
*Element .— (see Element of a financial statement)
*Element of a financial statement (in the context of SLAuS 805
8) .— An element, account or item of a financial
statement.
*Emphasis of Matter paragraph .—  A paragraph included in the auditor’s report that refers to a matter appropriately
presented or disclosed in the financial statements that, in the auditor’s judgment, is of such importance that it is fundamental
to users’ understanding of the financial statements.
†Engagement documentation .— The record of work performed, results obtained, and conclusions the practitioner
reached (terms such as “working papers” or “workpapers” are sometimes used).
Engagement letter .— Written terms of an engagement in the form of a letter.
*†Engagement partner9 .— The partner or other person in the firm who is responsible for the engagement and its
performance, and for the report that is issued on behalf of the firm, and who, where required, has the appropriate authority
from a professional, legal or regulatory body.
*†Engagement quality control review .— A process designed to provide an objective evaluation, on or before the
date of the report, of the significant judgments the engagement team made and the conclusions it reached in formulating the
report. The engagement quality control review process is for audits of financial statements of listed entities and those other
engagements, if any, for which the firm has determined an engagement quality control review is required.
*†Engagement quality control reviewer .— A partner, other person in the firm, suitably qualified external person, or
a team made up of such individuals, none of whom is part of the engagement team, with sufficient and appropriate experience
and authority to objectively evaluate the significant judgments the engagement team made and the conclusions it reached in
formulating the report.
*†Engagement team .— All partners and staff performing the engagement, and any individuals engaged by the firm
or a network firm who perform procedures on the engagement. This excludes external experts engaged by the firm or a
network firm.
10

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
7A
Entity’ s risk assessment process .— A component of internal control that is the entity’s process for identifying
business risks relevant to financial reporting objectives and deciding about actions to address those risks, and the results
thereof.
Environmental matters —
(a) Initiatives to prevent, abate, or remedy damage to the environment, or to deal with conservation of renewable
and non-renewable resources (such initiatives may be required by environmental laws and regulations or by
contract, or they may be undertaken voluntarily) ;
(b) Consequences of violating environmental laws and regulations ;
(c) Consequences of environmental damage done to others or to natural resources ; and
(d) Consequences of vicarious liability imposed by law (for example, liability for damages caused by previous
owners).
Environmental performance report .— A report, separate from the financial statements, in which an entity provides
third parties with qualitative information on the entity’s commitments towards the environmental aspects of the business, its
policies and targets in that field, its achievement in managing the relationship between its business processes and
environmental risk, and quantitative information on its environmental performance.
Environmental risk . — In certain circumstances, factors relevant to the assessment of inherent risk for the
development of the overall audit plan may include the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements due to
environmental matters.
Error .— An unintentional misstatement in financial statements, including the omission of an amount or a disclosure.
*Estimation uncertainty . — The susceptibility of an accounting estimate and related disclosures to an inherent
lack of precision in its measurement.
Evaluate .— Identify and analyze the relevant issues, including performing further procedures as necessary, to
come to a specific conclusion on a matter. “Evaluation,” by convention, is used only in relation to a range of matters,
including evidence, the results of procedures and the effectiveness of management’s response to a risk. (also see Assess)
GLOSSARY
*Exception .— A response that indicates a difference between information requested to be confirmed, or contained
in the entity’s records, and information provided by the confirming party.
*Experienced auditor—An individual (whether internal or external to the firm) who has practical audit experience,
and a reasonable understanding of:
(a) Audit processes ;
(b) SLAuSs and applicable legal and regulatory requirements ;
(c) The business environment in which the entity operates ; and
(d) Auditing and financial reporting issues relevant to the entity’s industry.
*Expert .— (see Auditor’s expert and Management’s expert)
*Expertise .— Skills, knowledge and experience in a particular field.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
8A
*External confirmation . — Audit evidence obtained as a direct written response to the auditor from a third party
(the confirming party), in paper form, or by electronic or other medium.
*Fair presentation framework .—(see Applicable financial reporting framework and General purpose framework)
*Financial statements .— A structured representation of historical financial information, including related notes,
intended to communicate an entity’s economic resources or obligations at a point in time or the changes therein for a period
of time in accordance with a financial reporting framework. The related notes ordinarily comprise a summary of significant
accounting policies and other explanatory information. The term “financial statements” ordinarily refers to a complete set of
financial statements as determined by the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework, but it can also refer
to a single financial statement.
*†Firm .— A sole practitioner, partnership or corporation or other entity of professional accountants.
Forecast .— Prospective financial information prepared on the basis of assumptions as to future events which
management expects to take place and the actions management expects to take as of the date the information is prepared
(best-estimate assumptions).
*Fraud .— An intentional act by one or more individuals among management, those charged with governance,
employees, or third parties, involving the use of deception to obtain an unjust or illegal advantage.
*Fraud risk factors .— Events or conditions that indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an
opportunity to commit fraud.
Fraudulent financial reporting .— Involves intentional misstatements, including omissions of amounts or disclosures
in financial statements, to deceive financial statement users.
General IT-controls .— Policies and procedures that relate to many applications and support the effective functioning
of application controls by helping to ensure the continued proper operation of information systems. General IT- controls
commonly include controls over data center and network operations; system software acquisition, change and maintenance;
access security; and application system acquisition, development, and maintenance.
*General purpose financial statements . — Financial statements prepared in accordance with a general purpose
framework.
*General purpose framework .— A financial reporting framework designed to meet the common financial information
needs of a wide range of users. The financial reporting framework may be a fair presentation framework or a compliance
framework.
The term “fair presentation framework” is used to refer to a financial reporting framework that requires compliance
with the requirements of the framework and :
(a) Acknowledges explicitly or implicitly that, to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements, it may be
necessary for management to provide disclosures beyond those specifically required by the framework; or
(b) Acknowledges explicitly that it may be necessary for management to depart from a requirement of the framework
to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements. Such departures are expected to be necessary only in
extremely rare circumstances.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
9A
The term “compliance framework” is used to refer to a financial reporting framework that requires compliance with
the requirements of the framework, but does not contain the acknowledgements in (a) or (b) above. 11
*Governance .— Describes the role of person(s) or organization(s) with responsibility for overseeing the strategic
direction of the entity and obligations related to the accountability of the entity.
*Group .— All the components whose financial information is included in the group financial statements. A group
always has more than one component.
*Group audit .— The audit of group financial statements.
*Group audit opinion . — The audit opinion on the group financial statements.
*Group engagement partner . — The partner or other person in the firm who is responsible for the group audit
engagement and its performance, and for the auditor’s report on the group financial statements that is issued on behalf of the
firm. Where joint auditors conduct the group audit, the joint engagement partners and their engagement teams collectively
constitute the group engagement partner and the group engagement team.
*Group engagement team .— Partners, including the group engagement partner, and staff who establish the overall
group audit strategy, communicate with component auditors, perform work on the consolidation process, and evaluate the
conclusions drawn from the audit evidence as the basis for forming an opinion on the group financial statements.
*Group financial statements . — Financial statements that include the financial information of more than one
component. The term “group financial statements” also refers to combined financial statements aggregating the financial
information prepared by components that have no parent but are under common control.
*Group management .— Management responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements.
*Group-wide controls . — Controls designed, implemented and maintained by group management over group
financial reporting.
*Historical financial information . — Information expressed in financial terms in relation to a particular entity,
derived primarily from that entity’s accounting system, about economic events occurring in past time periods or about
economic conditions or circumstances at points in time in the past.
*Inconsistency .— Other information that contradicts information contained in the audited financial statements. A
material inconsistency may raise doubt about the audit conclusions drawn from audit evidence previously obtained and,
possibly, about the basis for the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements.
Independence
12—Comprises :
(a) Independence of mind—the state of mind that permits the provision of an opinion without being affected by
influences that compromise professional judgment, allowing an individual to act with integrity, and exercise
objectivity and professional skepticism.
(b) Independence in appearance—the avoidance of facts and circumstances that are so significant a reasonable
and informed third party, having knowledge of all relevant information, including any safeguards applied,
would reasonably conclude a firm’s, or a member of the assurance team’s, integrity, objectivity or professional
skepticism had been compromised.
11 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(a).
12 As defined in the ICASL Code of Ethics for professional Accountants .

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
10A
Information system relevant to financial reporting . — A component of internal control that includes the financial
reporting system, and consists of the procedures and records established to initiate, record, process and report entity
transactions (as well as events and conditions) and to maintain accountability for the related assets, liabilities and equity.
*Inherent risk .— (see Risk of material misstatement)
*Initial audit engagement . — An engagement in which either :
(a) The financial statements for the prior period were not audited ; or
(b) The financial statements for the prior period were audited by a predecessor auditor.
Inquiry .— Inquiry consists of seeking information of knowledgeable persons, both financial and non-financial,
within the entity or outside the entity.
Inspection (as an audit procedure) .— Examining records or documents, whether internal or external, in paper form,
electronic form, or other media, or a physical examination of an asset.
*†Inspection (in relation to quality control) . — In relation to completed engagements, procedures designed to
provide evidence of compliance by engagement teams with the firm’s quality control policies and procedures.
Intended users .— The person, persons or class of persons for whom the practitioner prepares the assurance report.
The responsible party can be one of the intended users, but not the only one.
Interim financial information or statements . — Financial information (which may be less than a complete set of
financial statements as defined above) issued at interim dates (usually half-yearly or quarterly) in respect of a financial
period.
*Internal audit function . — An appraisal activity established or provided as a service to the entity. Its functions
include, amongst other things, examining, evaluating and monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control.
*Internal auditors .— Those individuals who perform the activities of the internal audit function. Internal auditors
may belong to an internal audit department or equivalent function.
*Internal control . — The process designed, implemented and maintained by those charged with governance,
management and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance about the achievement of an entity’s objectives with
regard to reliability of financial reporting, effectiveness and efficiency of operations, and compliance with applicable laws
and regulations. The term “controls” refers to any aspects of one or more of the components of internal control.
Investigate .— Inquire into matters arising from other procedures to resolve them.
IT environment . — The policies and procedures that the entity implements and the IT infrastructure (hardware,
operating systems, etc.) and application software that it uses to support business operations and achieve business strategies.
Limited assurance engagement — (see Assurance engagement)
*†Listed entity .— An entity whose shares, stock or debt are quoted or listed on a recognized stock exchange, or are
marketed under the regulations of a recognized stock exchange or other equivalent body.
*Management .— The person(s) with executive responsibility for the conduct of the entity’s operations. For some
entities in some jurisdictions, management includes some or all of those charged with governance, for example, executive
members of a governance board, or an owner-manager.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
11A
*Management bias .— A lack of neutrality by management in the preparation of information.
*Management’ s expert .— An individual or organization possessing expertise in a field other than accounting or
auditing, whose work in that field is used by the entity to assist the entity in preparing the financial statements.
*Management’ s point estimate .— The amount selected by management for recognition or disclosure in the financial
statements as an accounting estimate.
Misappropriation of assets . — Involves the theft of an entity’s assets and is often perpetrated by employees in
relatively small and immaterial amounts. However, it can also involve management who are usually more capable of disguising
or concealing misappropriations in ways that are difficult to detect.
*Misstatement .— A difference between the amount, classification, presentation, or disclosure of a reported financial
statement item and the amount, classification, presentation, or disclosure that is required for the item to be in accordance with
the applicable financial reporting framework. Misstatements can arise from error or fraud.
Where the auditor expresses an opinion on whether the financial statements are presented fairly, in all material
respects, or give a true and fair view, misstatements also include those adjustments of amounts, classifications, presentation,
or disclosures that, in the auditor’s judgment, are necessary for the financial statements to be presented fairly, in all material
respects, or to give a true and fair view.
*Misstatement of fact .— Other information that is unrelated to matters appearing in the audited financial statements
that is incorrectly stated or presented. A material misstatement of fact may undermine the credibility of the document
containing audited financial statements.
*Modified opinion .— A qualified opinion, an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion.
*†Monitoring (in relation to quality control) . — A process comprising an ongoing consideration and evaluation
of the firm’s system of quality control, including a periodic inspection of a selection of completed engagements, designed to
provide the firm with reasonable assurance that its system of quality control is operating effectively.
Monitoring of controls . — A process to assess the effectiveness of internal control performance over time. It
includes assessing the design and operation of controls on a timely basis and taking necessary corrective actions modified
for changes in conditions. Monitoring of controls is a component of internal control.
*Negative confirmation request . — A request that the confirming party respond directly to the auditor only if the
confirming party disagrees with the information provided in the request.
*†Network—A larger structure :
(a) That is aimed at cooperation ; and
(b) That is clearly aimed at profit or cost-sharing or shares common ownership, control or management, common
quality control policies and procedures, common business strategy, the use of a common brand name, or a
significant part of professional  resources.
*†Network firm .— A firm or entity that belongs to a network.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
12A
13 SLAuS 250, "Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements."
*Non-compliance (in the context of SLAuS 25013) .— Acts of omission or commission by the entity, either intentional
or unintentional, which are contrary to the prevailing laws or regulations. Such acts include transactions entered into by, or
in the name of, the entity, or on its behalf, by those charged with governance, management or employees. Non-compliance
does not include personal misconduct (unrelated to the business activities of the entity) by those charged with governance,
management or employees of the entity.
*Non-response .— A failure of the confirming party to respond, or fully respond, to a positive confirmation request,
or a confirmation request returned undelivered.
*Non-sampling risk . — The risk that the auditor reaches an erroneous conclusion for any reason not related to
sampling risk.
Observation .— Consists of looking at a process or procedure being performed by others, for example, the auditor’s
observation of inventory counting by the entity’s personnel, or of the performance of control activities.
*Opening balances . — Those account balances that exist at the beginning of the period. Opening balances are
based upon the closing balances of the prior period and reflect the effects of transactions and events of prior periods and
accounting policies applied in the prior period. Opening balances also include matters requiring disclosure that existed at the
beginning of the period, such as contingencies and commitments.
*Other information .— Financial and non-financial information (other than the financial statements and the auditor’s
report thereon) which is included, either by law, regulation, or custom, in a document containing audited financial statements
and the auditor’s report thereon.
*Other Matter paragraph . — A paragraph included in the auditor’s report that refers to a matter other than those
presented or disclosed in the financial statements that, in the auditor’s judgment, is relevant to users’ understanding of the
audit, the auditor’s responsibilities or the auditor’s report.
*Outcome of an accounting estimate . — The actual monetary amount which results from the resolution of the
underlying transaction(s), event(s) or condition(s) addressed by the accounting estimate.
Overall audit strategy .— Sets the scope, timing and direction of the audit, and guides the development of the more
detailed audit plan.
GLOSSARY
*†Partner .— Any individual with authority to bind the firm with respect to the performance of a professional
services engagement.
*Performance materiality .— The amount or amounts set by the auditor at less than materiality for the financial
statements as a whole to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected
misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole. If applicable, performance materiality also refers to
the amount or amounts set by the auditor at less than the materiality level or levels for particular classes of transactions,
account balances or disclosures.
*†Personnel .— Partners and staff.
* Pervasive .— A term used, in the context of misstatements, to describe the effects on the financial statements of
misstatements or the possible effects on the financial statements of misstatements, if any, that are undetected due to an

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
13A
inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. Pervasive effects on the financial statements are those that, in the
auditor’s judgment :
(a) Are not confined to specific elements, accounts or items of the financial statements ;
(b) If so confined, represent or could represent a substantial proportion of the financial statements ; or
(c) In relation to disclosures, are fundamental to users’ understanding of the financial statements.
*Population .— The entire set of data from which a sample is selected and about which the auditor wishes to draw
conclusions.
*Positive confirmation request . — A request that the confirming party respond directly to the auditor indicating
whether the confirming party agrees or disagrees with the information in the request, or providing the requested information.
Practitioner .— A professional accountant in public practice.
*Preconditions for an audit . — The use by management of an acceptable financial reporting framework in the
preparation of the financial statements and the agreement of management and, where appropriate, those charged with
governance to the premise
14 on which an audit is conducted.
*Predecessor auditor .— The auditor from a different audit firm, who audited the financial statements of an entity
in the prior period and who has been replaced by the current auditor.
*Premise, relating to the responsibilities of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance,
on which an audit is conducted . — That management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance have
acknowledged and understand that they have the following responsibilities that are fundamental to the conduct of an audit
in accordance with SLAuSs. That is, responsibility:
(a) For the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework,
including where relevant their fair presentation ;
(b) For such internal control as management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance determine is
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error ; and
(c) To provide the auditor with :
(i) Access to all information of which management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance
are aware that is relevant to the preparation of the financial statements such as records, documentation and
other matters;
(ii) Additional information that the auditor may request from management and, where appropriate, those
charged with governance for the purpose of the audit; and
(iii) Unrestricted access to persons within the entity from whom the auditor determines it necessary to obtain
audit evidence.
14 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
14A
15 As defined in the ICASL Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants .
16 As defined in the ICASL Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants .
17 SLSQC 1, "Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Review of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related
Services Engagements."
In the case of a fair presentation framework, (a) above may be restated as “for the preparation and fair presentation
of the financial statements in accordance with the financial reporting framework,” or “for the preparation of financial statements
that give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework.”
The “premise, relating to the responsibilities of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance,
on which an audit is conducted” may also be referred to as the “premise.”
Professional accountant15 .— An individual who is a member of the ICASL.
Professional accountant in public practice16 .— A professional accountant, irrespective of functional classification
(for example, audit, tax or consulting) in a firm that provides professional services. This term is also used to refer to a firm of
professional accountants in public practice.
*Professional judgment . — The application of relevant training, knowledge and experience, within the context
provided by auditing, accounting and ethical standards, in making informed decisions about the courses of action that are
appropriate in the circumstances of the audit engagement.
GLOSSARY
*Professional skepticism . — An attitude that includes a questioning mind, being alert to conditions which may
indicate possible misstatement due to error or fraud, and a critical assessment of evidence.
*Professional standards .— Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) and relevant ethical requirements.
†Professional standards (in the context of SLSQC 1
17) . — Engagement Standards issued by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL), as defined in the ICASL’s Preface to the Sri Lanka Auditing Standards and Sri
Lanka Standard on Quality Control, and relevant ethical requirements.
Projection .— Prospective financial information prepared on the basis of:
(a) Hypothetical assumptions about future events and management actions which are not necessarily expected to
take place, such as when some entities are in a start-up phase or are considering a major change in the nature
of operations ; or
(b) A mixture of best-estimate and hypothetical assumptions.
Prospective financial information .— Financial information based on assumptions about events that may occur in
the future and possible actions by an entity. Prospective financial information can be in the form of a forecast, a projection or
a combination of both. (see Forecast and Projection)
Public sector .— National governments, regional (for example, state, provincial, territorial) governments, local (for
example, city, town) governments and related governmental entities (for example, agencies, boards, commissions and
enterprises).
*†Reasonable assurance (in the context of assurance engagements, including audit engagements, and quality
control) .— A high, but not absolute, level of assurance.
Reasonable assurance engagement . — (see Assurance engagement)
Recalculation .— Consists of checking the mathematical accuracy of documents or records.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
15A
*Related party .— A party that is either :
(a) A related party as defined in the applicable financial reporting framework ; or
(b) Where the applicable financial reporting framework establishes minimal or no related party requirements:
(i) A person or other entity that has control or significant influence, directly or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, over the reporting entity ;
(ii) Another entity over which the reporting entity has control or significant influence, directly or indirectly
through one or more intermediaries ; or
(iii) Another entity that is under common control with the reporting entity through having:
a. Common controlling ownership ;
b. Owners who are close family members ; or
c. Common key management.
However, entities that are under common control by a state (that is, a national, regional or local government) are
not considered related unless they engage in significant transactions or share resources to a significant extent
with one another.
Related services .— Comprise agreed-upon procedures and compilations.
*†Relevant ethical requirements .— Ethical requirements to which the engagement team and engagement quality
control reviewer are subject, which ordinarily comprise Parts A and B of the ICASL’s Code of Ethics for Professional
Accountants (ICASL Code) together with national requirements that are more restrictive.
Reperformance .— The auditor’s independent execution of procedures or controls that were originally performed as
part of the entity’s internal controls.
*Report on the description and design of controls at a service organization (referred to in SLAuS 402
18 as a type
1 report) .— A report that comprises :
(a) A description, prepared by management of the service organization, of the service organization’s system,
control objectives and related controls that have been designed and implemented as at a specified date ; and
(b) A report by the service auditor with the objective of conveying reasonable assurance that includes the service
auditor’s opinion on the description of the service organization’s system, control objectives and related controls
and the suitability of the design of the controls to achieve the specified control objectives.
*Report on the description, design, and operating effectiveness of controls at a service organization (referred to
in SLAuS 402 as a type 2 report) . — A report that comprises :
(a) A description, prepared by management of the service organization, of the service organization’s system,
control objectives and related controls, their design and implementation as at a specified date or throughout a
specified period and, in some cases, their operating effectiveness throughout a specified period ; and
18 SLAuS 402, "Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service Organization."

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
16A
(b) A report by the service auditor with the objective of conveying reasonable assurance that includes :
GLOSSARY
(i) The service auditor’s opinion on the description of the service organization’s system, control objectives
and related controls, the suitability of the design of the controls to achieve the specified control objectives,
and the operating effectiveness of the controls ; and
(ii) A description of the service auditor’s tests of the controls and the results thereof.
Responsible party .— The person (or persons) who :
(a) In a direct reporting engagement, is responsible for the subject matter ; or
(b) In an assertion-based engagement, is responsible for the subject matter information (the assertion), and may be
responsible for the subject matter.
The responsible party may or may not be the party who engages the practitioner (the engaging party).
Review (in relation to quality control) . — Appraising the quality of the work performed and conclusions reached
by others.
Review engagement .— The objective of a review engagement is to enable an auditor to state whether, on the basis
of procedures which do not provide all the evidence that would be required in an audit, anything has come to the auditor’s
attention that causes the auditor to believe that the financial statements are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance
with an applicable financial reporting framework.
Review procedures .— The procedures deemed necessary to meet the objective of a review engagement, primarily
inquiries of entity personnel and analytical procedures applied to financial data.
*Risk assessment procedures . — The audit procedures performed to obtain an understanding of the entity and its
environment, including the entity’s internal control, to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error, at the financial statement and assertion levels.
*Risk of material misstatement .— The risk that the financial statements are materially misstated prior to audit. This
consists of two components, described as follows at the assertion level :
(a) Inherent risk—The susceptibility of an assertion about a class of transaction, account balance or disclosure to
a misstatement that could be material, either individually or when aggregated with other misstatements, before
consideration of any related controls ;
(b) Control risk—The risk that a misstatement that could occur in an assertion about a class of transaction, account
balance or disclosure and that could be material, either individually or when aggregated with other misstatements,
will not be prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis by the entity’s internal control.
*Sampling .— (see Audit sampling)
*Sampling risk .— The risk that the auditor’s conclusion based on a sample may be different from the conclusion
if the entire population were subjected to the same audit procedure. Sampling risk can lead to two types of erroneous
conclusions :
(a) In the case of a test of controls, that controls are more effective than they actually are, or in the case of a test of
details, that a material misstatement does not exist when in fact it does. The auditor is primarily concerned with
this type of erroneous conclusion because it affects audit effectiveness and is more likely to lead to an
inappropriate audit opinion ;

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
17A
(b) In the case of a test of controls, that controls are less effective than they actually are, or in the case of a test of
details, that a material misstatement exists when in fact it does not. This type of erroneous conclusion affects
audit efficiency as it would usually lead to additional work to establish that initial conclusions were incorrect.
*Sampling unit .—  The individual items constituting a population.
Scope of a review .— The review procedures deemed necessary in the circumstances to achieve the objective of the
review.
*Service auditor .—  An auditor who, at the request of the service organization, provides an assurance report on the
controls of a service organization.
*Service organization . — A third-party organization (or segment of a third-party organization) that provides
services to user entities that are part of those entities’ information systems relevant to financial reporting.
*Service organization’ s system .— The policies and procedures designed, implemented and maintained by the
service organization to provide user entities with the services covered by the service auditor’s report.
Significance .— The relative importance of a matter, taken in context. The significance of a matter is judged by the
practitioner in the context in which it is being considered. This might include, for example, the reasonable prospect of its
changing or influencing the decisions of intended users of the practitioner’s report; or, as another example, where the context
is a judgment about whether to report a matter to those charged with governance, whether the matter would be regarded as
important by them in relation to their duties. Significance can be considered in the context of quantitative and qualitative
factors, such as relative magnitude, the nature and effect on the subject matter and the expressed interests of intended users
or recipients.
*Significant component .— A component identified by the group engagement team (i) that is of individual financial
significance to the group, or (ii) that, due to its specific nature or circumstances, is likely to include significant risks of material
misstatement of the group financial statements.
*Significant deficiency in internal control .— A deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control that,
in the auditor’s professional judgment, is of sufficient importance to merit the attention of those charged with governance.
GLOSSARY
*Significant risk . — An identified and assessed risk of material misstatement that, in the auditor’s judgment,
requires special audit consideration.
Smaller entity .— An entity which typically possesses qualitative characteristics such as :
(a) Concentration of ownership and management in a small number of individuals (often a single individual – either
a natural person or another enterprise that owns the entity provided the owner exhibits the relevant qualitative
characteristics) ; and
(b) One or more of the following :
(i) Straightforward or uncomplicated transactions;
(ii) Simple record-keeping;
(iii) Few lines of business and few products within business lines;
(iv) Few internal controls;
(v) Few levels of management with responsibility for a broad range of controls; or
(vi) Few personnel, many having a wide range of duties.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
18A
19 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(a).
These qualitative characteristics are not exhaustive, they are not exclusive to smaller entities, and smaller entities do
not necessarily display all of these characteristics.
*Special purpose financial statements . — Financial statements prepared in accordance with a special purpose
framework.
*Special purpose framework .— A financial reporting framework designed to meet the financial information needs
of specific users. The financial reporting framework may be a fair presentation framework or a compliance framework.19
*Sri Lanka Accounting Standards . —The Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka.
*†Staff .—Professionals, other than partners, including any experts the firm employs.
*Statistical sampling . — An approach to sampling that has the following characteristics :
(a) Random selection of the sample items; and
(b) The use of probability theory to evaluate sample results, including measurement of sampling risk.
A sampling approach that does not have characteristics (a) and (b) is considered non-statistical sampling.
*Stratification .— The process of dividing a population into sub-populations, each of which is a group of sampling
units which have similar characteristics (often monetary value).
Subject matter information .— The outcome of the evaluation or measurement of a subject matter. It is the subject
matter information about which the practitioner gathers sufficient appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for
expressing a conclusion in an assurance report.
*Subsequent events .— Events occurring between the date of the financial statements and the date of the auditor’s
report, and facts that become known to the auditor after the date of the auditor’s report.
*Subservice organization .— A service organization used by another service organization to perform some of the
services provided to user entities that are part of those user entities’ information systems relevant to financial reporting.
*Substantive procedure . — An audit procedure designed to detect material misstatements at the assertion level.
Substantive procedures comprise :
(a) Tests of details (of classes of transactions, account balances, and disclosures) ; and
(b) Substantive analytical procedures.
*Sufficiency (of audit evidence) . — The measure of the quantity of audit evidence. The quantity of the audit
evidence needed is affected by the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement and also by the quality of such
audit evidence.
Suitable criteria . — (see Criteria)

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
19A
*†Suitably qualified external person .— An individual outside the firm with the competence and capabilities to act
as an engagement partner, for example a partner of another firm, or an employee (with appropriate experience) of either a
professional accountancy body whose members may perform audits and reviews of historical financial information, or other
assurance or related services engagements, or of an organization that provides relevant quality control services.
*Summary financial statements (in the context of SLAuS 810) . — Historical financial information that is derived
from financial statements but that contains less detail than the financial statements, while still providing a structured
representation consistent with that provided by the financial statements of the entity’s economic resources or obligations at
a point in time or the changes therein for a period of time.
20 Different jurisdictions may use different terminology to describe
such historical financial information.
Supplementary information . — Information that is presented together with the financial statements that is not
required by the applicable financial reporting framework used to prepare the financial statements, normally presented in
either supplementary schedules or as additional notes.
Test .— The application of procedures to some or all items in a population.
*Tests of controls .— An audit procedure designed to evaluate the operating effectiveness of controls in preventing,
or detecting and correcting, material misstatements at the assertion level.
*Those charged with governance . — The person(s) or organization(s) (for example, a corporate trustee) with
responsibility for overseeing the strategic direction of the entity and obligations related to the accountability of the entity .
This includes overseeing the financial reporting process. For some entities in some jurisdictions, those charged with governance
may include management personnel, for example, executive members of a governance board of a private or public sector
entity, or an owner-manager.
21
*Tolerable misstatement .— A monetary amount set by the auditor in respect of which the auditor seeks to obtain
an appropriate level of assurance that the monetary amount set by the auditor is not exceeded by the actual misstatement in
the population.
*Tolerable rate of deviation .— A rate of deviation from prescribed internal control procedures set by the auditor
in respect of which the auditor seeks to obtain an appropriate level of assurance that the rate of deviation set by the auditor
is not exceeded by the actual rate of deviation in the population.
Uncertainty .— A matter whose outcome depends on future actions or events not under the direct control of the
entity but that may affect the financial statements.
*Uncorrected misstatements .— Misstatements that the auditor has accumulated during the audit and that have not
been corrected.
*Unmodified opinion . — The opinion expressed by the auditor when the auditor concludes that the financial
statements are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
22
*User auditor .— An auditor who audits and reports on the financial statements of a user entity.
*User entity .— An entity that uses a service organization and whose financial statements are being audited.
Walk-through test.— Involves tracing a few transactions through the financial reporting system.
* Written representation .— A written statement by management provided to the auditor to confirm certain matters
or to support other audit evidence. Written representations in this context do no include financial statements, the assertions
therein, or supporting books and records.
20 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(f).
21 For discussion of the diversity of governance structures, see paragraphs A1 - A8 of SLAuS 260, "Communication with Those Charge d
with Governance."
22 SLAuS 700, paragraph 35 - 36 deal with the phrases used to express this opinion in the case of a fair presentation framework an d a
compliance framework respectively.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
20A
SRI LANKA FRAMEWORK FOR
ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENTS
CONTENTS
                                                                                           Paragraph
Introduction ………………………………….……………………… 1-6
Definition and Objective of an Assurance Engagement ……………. 7-11
Scope of the Framework …………………………………………….. 12-16
Engagement Acceptance ……………………………………………. 17-19
Elements of an Assurance Engagement …………………………….. 20-60
Inappropriate Use of the Practitioner’s Name ………………………. 61
Appendix: Differences Between Reasonable Assurance Engagements and Limited Assurance Engagements
Introduction
1. This Framework defines and describes the elements and objectives of an assurance engagement, and identifies
engagements to which Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs), Sri Lanka Standards on Review Engagements (SLSREs)
and Sri Lanka Standards on Assurance Engagements (SLSAEs) apply. It provides a frame of reference for :
(a) Professional accountants in public practice (“practitioners”) when performing assurance engagements.
Professional accountants in the public sector refer to the Public Sector Perspective at the end of the Framework.
Professional accountants who are neither in public practice nor in the public sector are encouraged to consider
the Framework when performing assurance engagements ;
1
(b) Others involved with assurance engagements, including the intended users of an assurance report and the
responsible party ; and
(c) The Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka in its development of SLAuSs, SLSREs and
SLSAEs.
2. This Framework does not itself establish standards or provide procedural requirements for the performance of
assurance engagements. SLAuSs, SLSREs and SLSAEs contain basic principles, essential procedures and related
guidance, consistent with the concepts in this Framework, for the performance of assurance engagements. The
relationship between the Framework and the SLAuSs, SLSREs and SLSAEs is illustrated in the “Structure of
Pronouncements” issued by the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.
1 If a professional accountant not in public practice, for example an internal auditor, applies this Framework, and (a) this Fram ework,
the SLAuSs, SLSREs and SLASEs are referred to in the professional accountant's report ; and (b) the professional accountant or other
members of the assurance team and, when applicable, the professional accountant's employer, are not independent of the entity i n
respect of which the assurance engagement is being performed, the lack of independence and the nature of the relationship(s) wi th the
entity are prominently disclosed in the professional accountant's report. Also, that report does not include the word "independ ent" in
its title, and the purpose and users of the report are restricted.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
21A
3. The following is an overview of this Framework:
* Introduction: This Framework deals with assurance engagements performed by practitioners. It provides a
frame of reference for practitioners and others involved with assurance engagements, such as those engaging
a practitioner (the “engaging party”).
* Definition and objective of an assurance engagement: This section defines assurance engagements and identifies
the objectives of the two types of assurance engagement a practitioner is permitted to perform. This Framework
calls these two types reasonable assurance engagements and limited assurance engagements.
2
*  Scope of the Framework: This section distinguishes assurance engagements from other engagements, such as
consulting engagements.
*  Engagement acceptance: This section sets out characteristics that must be exhibited before a practitioner can
accept an assurance engagement.
* Elements of an assurance engagement: This section identifies and discusses five elements assurance
engagements performed by practitioners exhibit: a three party relationship, a subject matter, criteria, evidence
and an assurance report. It explains important distinctions between reasonable assurance engagements and
limited assurance engagements (also outlined in the Appendix). This section also discusses, for example, the
significant variation in the subject matters of assurance engagements, the required characteristics of suitable
criteria, the role of risk and materiality in assurance engagements, and how conclusions are expressed in each
of the two types of assurance engagement.
* Inappropriate use of the practitioner’s name: This section discusses implications of a practitioner’s association
with a subject matter.
Ethical Principles and Quality Control Standard
4. In addition to this Framework and SLAuSs, SLSREs and SLSAEs, practitioners who perform assurance engagements
are governed by :
(a) The Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the ICASL Code) issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka, which establishes fundamental ethical principles for professional accountants ; and
(b) Sri Lanka Standards on Quality Control (SLSQCs), which establish standards and provide guidance on a firm’s
system of quality control.
3
5. Part A of the ICASL Code sets out the fundamental ethical principles that all professional accountants are required to
observe, including :
(a) Integrity ;
(b) Objectivity ;
(c) Professional competence and due care ;
(d) Confidentiality ; and
(e) Professional behavior.
2 For assurance engagements regarding historical financial information in particular, reasonable assurance engagements are called
audits, and limited assurance engagements are called reviews.
3 Additional standards and guidance on quality control procedures for specific types of assurance engagement are set out in SLAuS s,
SLSREs and SLSAEs.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
22A
6. Part B of the ICASL Code, which applies only to professional accountants in public practice (“practitioners”),
includes a conceptual approach to independence that takes into account, for each assurance engagement, threats to
independence, accepted safeguards and the public interest. It requires firms and members of assurance teams to
identify and evaluate circumstances and relationships that create threats to independence and to take appropriate
action to eliminate these threats or to reduce them to an acceptable level by the application of safeguards.
Definition and Objective of an Assurance Engagement
7. “Assurance engagement” means an engagement in which a practitioner expresses a conclusion designed to enhance
the degree of confidence of the intended users other than the responsible party about the outcome of the evaluation
or measurement of a subject matter against criteria.
8. The outcome of the evaluation or measurement of a subject matter is the information that results from applying the
criteria to the subject matter. For example :
* The recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure represented in the financial statements (outcome)
result from applying a financial reporting framework for recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure,
such as Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, (criteria) to an entity’s financial position, financial performance and
cash flows (subject matter).
* An assertion about the effectiveness of internal control (outcome) results from applying a framework for
evaluating the effectiveness of internal control, such as COSO
4 or CoCo,5 (criteria) to internal control, a process
(subject matter).
In the remainder of this Framework, the term “subject matter information” will be used to mean the outcome of the
evaluation or measurement of a subject matter. It is the subject matter information about which the practitioner
gathers sufficient appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for expressing a conclusion in an assurance
report.
9. Subject matter information can fail to be properly expressed in the context of the subject matter and the criteria, and
can therefore be misstated, potentially to a material extent. This occurs when the subject matter information does not
properly reflect the application of the criteria to the subject matter, for example, when an entity’s financial statements
do not give a true and fair view of (or present fairly, in all material respects) its financial position, financial performance
and cash flows in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, or when an entity’s assertion that its internal
control is effective is not fairly stated, in all material respects, based on a framework used such as COSO or CoCo.
10. In some assurance engagements, the evaluation or measurement of the subject matter is performed by the responsible
party, and the subject matter information is in the form of an assertion by the responsible party that is made available
to the intended users. These engagements are called “assertion-based engagements.” In other assurance engagements,
the practitioner either directly performs the evaluation or measurement of the subject matter, or obtains a representation
from the responsible party that has performed the evaluation or measurement that is not available to the intended
users. The subject matter information is provided to the intended users in the assurance report. These engagements
are called “direct reporting engagements.”
4 "Internal Control - Integrared Framework" The Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission.
5 "Guidance on Assessisng Control - The Coco Principles" Criteria of Control Borad, The Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountan ts.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
23A
11. Under this Framework, there are two types of assurance engagement a practitioner is permitted to perform: a reasonable
assurance engagement and a limited assurance engagement. The objective of a reasonable assurance engagement is
a reduction in assurance engagement risk to an acceptably low level in the circumstances of the engagement 6 as the
basis for a positive form of expression of the practitioner’s conclusion. The objective of a limited assurance engagement
is a reduction in assurance engagement risk to a level that is acceptable in the circumstances of the engagement, but
where that risk is greater than for a reasonable assurance engagement, as the basis for a negative form of expression
of the practitioner’s conclusion.
Scope of the Framework
12. Not all engagements performed by practitioners are assurance engagements. Other frequently performed engagements
that do not meet the above definition (and therefore are not covered by this Framework) include:
* Engagements covered by Sri Lanka Standards for Related Services, such as agreed-upon procedures
engagements and compilations of financial or other information.
* The preparation of tax returns where no conclusion conveying assurance is expressed.
* Consulting (or advisory) engagements,
7 such as management and tax consulting.
13. An assurance engagement may be part of a larger engagement, for example, when a business acquisition consulting
engagement includes a requirement to convey assurance regarding historical or prospective financial information. In
such circumstances, this Framework is relevant only to the assurance portion of the engagement.
14. The following engagements, which may meet the definition in paragraph 7, need not be performed in accordance with
this Framework :
(a) Engagements to testify in legal proceedings regarding accounting, auditing, taxation or other matters ; and
(b) Engagements that include professional opinions, views or wording from which a user may derive some assurance,
if all of the following apply :
(i) Those opinions, views or wording are merely incidental to the overall engagement ;
(ii) Any written report issued is expressly restricted for use by only the intended users specified in the
report ;
(iii) Under a written understanding with the specified intended users, the engagement is not intended to be an
assurance engagement ; and
(iv) The engagement is not represented as an assurance engagement in the professional accountant’s report.
6 Engagement circumstances include the terms of the engagement, including whether it is a reasonable assurance engagement or a
limited assurance engagement, the characteristics of the subject matter, the criteria to be used, the needs of the intended use rs, relevant
characteristics of the responsible party and its environment, and other matters, for example events, transactions, conditions a nd
practices, that may have a significant effect on the engagement.
7 Consulting engagements employ a professional accountant’s technical skills, education, observations, experiences, and knowledge  of
the consulting process. The consulting process is an analytical process that typically involves some combination of activities relating
to: objective-setting, fact-finding, definition of problems or opportunities, evaluation of alternatives, development of recomm endations
including actions, communication of results, and sometimes implementation and follow-up. Reports (if issued) are generally writ ten
in a narrative (or “long form”) style. Generally the work performed is only for the use and benefit of the client. The nature a nd scope
of work is determined by agreement between the professional accountant and the client. Any service that meets the definition of  an
assurance engagement is not a consulting engagement but an assurance engagement

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
24A
Reports on Non-Assurance Engagements
15. A practitioner reporting on an engagement that is not an assurance engagement within the scope of this Framework,
clearly distinguishes that report from an assurance report. So as not to confuse users, a report that is not an
assurance report avoids, for example:
* Implying compliance with this Framework, SLAuSs, SLSREs or SLSAEs.
* Inappropriately using the words “assurance,” “audit” or “review.”
* Including a statement that could reasonably be mistaken for a conclusion designed to enhance the degree of
confidence of intended users about the outcome of the evaluation or measurement of a subject matter against
criteria.
16. The practitioner and the responsible party may agree to apply the principles of this Framework to an engagement
when there are no intended users other than the responsible party but where all other requirements of the SLASuSs,
SLSREs or SLSAEs are met. In such cases, the practitioner’s report includes a statement restricting the use of the
report to the responsible party.
Engagement Acceptance
17. A practitioner accepts an assurance engagement only where the practitioner’s preliminary knowledge of the engagement
circumstances indicates that:
(a) Relevant ethical requirements, such as independence and professional competence will be satisfied ; and
(b) The engagement exhibits all of the following characteristics :
(i) The subject matter is appropriate ;FRAMEWORK
(ii) The criteria to be used are suitable and are available to the intended users ;FRAMEWORK
(iii) The practitioner has access to sufficient appropriate evidence to support the practitioner’s conclusion ;FRAMEWORK
(iv) The practitioner’s conclusion, in the form appropriate to either a reasonable assurance engagement or a
limited assurance engagement, is to be contained in a written report ; andFRAMEWORK
(v) The practitioner is satisfied that there is a rational purpose for the engagement. If there is a significant
limitation on the scope of the practitioner’s work (see paragraph 55), it may be unlikely that the engagement
has a rational purpose. Also, a practitioner may believe the engaging party intends to associate the
practitioner’s name with the subject matter in an inappropriate manner (see paragraph 61).FRAMEWORK
Specific SLAuSs, SLSREs or SLSAEs may include additional requirements that need to be satisfied prior to accepting
an engagement.
18. When a potential engagement cannot be accepted as an assurance engagement because it does not exhibit all the
characteristics in the previous paragraph, the engaging party may be able to identify a different engagement that will
meet the needs of intended users. For example :
(a) If the original criteria were not suitable, an assurance engagement may still be performed if :FRAMEWORK
(i) The engaging party can identify an aspect of the original subject matter for which those criteria are
suitable, and the practitioner could perform an assurance engagement with respect to that aspect as a
subject matter in its own right. In such cases, the assurance report makes it clear that it does not relate to
the original subject matter in its entirety ; or

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
25A
(ii) Alternative criteria suitable for the original subject matter can be selected or developed.
(b) The engaging party may request an engagement that is not an assurance engagement, such as a consulting or
an agreed-upon procedures engagement.
19. Having accepted an assurance engagement, a practitioner may not change that engagement to a non-assurance
engagement, or from a reasonable assurance engagement to a limited assurance engagement without reasonable
justification. A change in circumstances that affects the intended users’ requirements, or a misunderstanding concerning
the nature of the engagement, ordinarily will justify a request for a change in the engagement. If such a change is
made, the practitioner does not disregard evidence that was obtained prior to the change.
Elements of an Assurance Engagement
20. The following elements of an assurance engagement are discussed in this section :
(a) A three party relationship involving a practitioner, a responsible party, and intended users;
(b) An appropriate subject matter;
(c) Suitable criteria;
(d) Sufficient appropriate evidence; and
(e) A written assurance report in the form appropriate to a reasonable assurance engagement or a limited assurance
engagement.
Three Party Relationship
21. Assurance engagements involve three separate parties: a practitioner, a responsible party and intended users.
22. The responsible party and the intended users may be from different entities or the same entity. As an example of the
latter case, in a two-tier board structure, the supervisory board may seek assurance about information provided by
the management board of that entity. The relationship between the responsible party and the intended users needs to
be viewed within the context of a specific engagement and may differ from more traditionally defined lines of
responsibility. For example, an entity’s senior management (an intended user) may engage a practitioner to perform an
assurance engagement on a particular aspect of the entity’s activities that is the immediate responsibility of a lower
level of management (the responsible party), but for which senior management is ultimately responsible.
Practitioner
23. The term “practitioner” as used in this Framework is broader than the term “auditor” as used in SLAuSs & SLSREs,
which relates only to practitioners performing audit or review engagements with respect to historical financial
information.
24. A practitioner may be requested to perform assurance engagements on a wide range of subject matters. Some subject
matters may require specialized skills and knowledge beyond those ordinarily possessed by an individual practitioner.
As noted in paragraph 17 (a), a practitioner does not accept an engagement if preliminary knowledge of the engagement
circumstances indicates that ethical requirements regarding professional competence will not be satisfied. In some
cases this requirement can be satisfied by the practitioner using the work of persons from other professional disciplines,
referred to as experts. In such cases, the practitioner is satisfied that those persons carrying out the engagement
collectively possess the requisite skills and knowledge, and that the practitioner has an adequate level of involvement
in the engagement and understanding of the work for which any expert is used.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
26A
Responsible Party
25. The responsible party is the person (or persons) who :
(a) In a direct reporting engagement, is responsible for the subject matter ; or
(b) In an assertion-based engagement, is responsible for the subject matter information (the assertion), and may be
responsible for the subject matter. An example of when the responsible party is responsible for both the subject
matter information and the subject matter, is when an entity engages a practitioner to perform an assurance
engagement regarding a report it has prepared about its own sustainability practices. An example of when the
responsible party is responsible for the subject matter information but not the subject matter, is when a
government organization engages a practitioner to perform an assurance engagement regarding a report about
a private company’s sustainability practices that the organization has prepared and is to distribute to intended
users.
The responsible party may or may not be the party who engages the practitioner (the engaging party).
26. The responsible party ordinarily provides the practitioner with a written representation that evaluates or measures
the subject matter against the identified criteria, whether or not it is to be made available as an assertion to the
intended users. In a direct reporting engagement, the practitioner may not be able to obtain such a representation
when the engaging party is different from the responsible party.
Intended Users
27. The intended users are the person, persons or class of persons for whom the practitioner prepares the assurance
report. The responsible party can be one of the intended users, but not the only one.
28. Whenever practical, the assurance report is addressed to all the intended users, but in some cases there may be other
intended users. The practitioner may not be able to identify all those who will read the assurance report, particularly
where there is a large number of people who have access to it. In such cases, particularly where possible readers are
likely to have a broad range of interests in the subject matter, intended users may be limited to major stakeholders with
significant and common interests. Intended users may be identified in different ways, for example, by agreement
between the practitioner and the responsible party or engaging party, or by law.
29. Whenever practical, intended users or their representatives are involved with the practitioner and the responsible
party (and the engaging party if different) in determining the requirements of the engagement. Regardless of the
involvement of others however, and unlike an agreed-upon procedures engagement (which involves reporting findings
based upon the procedures, rather than a conclusion) :
(a) The practitioner is responsible for determining the nature, timing and extent of procedures ; and
(b) The practitioner is required to pursue any matter the practitioner becomes aware of that leads the practitioner
to question whether a material modification should be made to the subject matter information.
30. In some cases, intended users (for example, bankers and regulators) impose a requirement on, or request the responsible
party (or the engaging party if different) to arrange for, an assurance engagement to be performed for a specific
purpose. When engagements are designed for specified intended users or a specific purpose, the practitioner considers
including a restriction in the assurance report that limits its use to those users or that purpose.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
27A
Subject Matter
31. The subject matter, and subject matter information, of an assurance engagement can take many forms, such as :
*  Financial performance or conditions (for example, historical or prospective financial position, financial
performance and cash flows) for which the subject matter information may be the recognition, measurement,
presentation and disclosure represented in financial statements.
* Non-financial performance or conditions (for example, performance of an entity) for which the subject matter
information may be key indicators of efficiency and effectiveness.
* Physical characteristics (for example, capacity of a facility) for which the subject matter information may be a
specifications document.
* Systems and processes (for example, an entity’s internal control or IT system) for which the subject matter
information may be an assertion about effectiveness.
* Behavior (for example, corporate governance, compliance with regulation, human resource practices) for which
the subject matter information may be a statement of compliance or a statement of effectiveness.
32. Subject matters have different characteristics, including the degree to which information about them is qualitative
versus quantitative, objective versus subjective, historical versus prospective, and relates to a point in time or covers
a period. Such characteristics affect the :
(a) Precision with which the subject matter can be evaluated or measured against criteria ; and
(b) The persuasiveness of available evidence.
The assurance report notes characteristics of particular relevance to the intended users.
33. An appropriate subject matter is :
FRAMEWORK
(a) Identifiable, and capable of consistent evaluation or measurement against the identified criteria ; and
(b) Such that the information about it can be subjected to procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence
to support a reasonable assurance or limited assurance conclusion, as appropriate.
Criteria
34. Criteria are the benchmarks used to evaluate or measure the subject matter including, where relevant, benchmarks for
presentation and disclosure. Criteria can be formal, for example in the preparation of financial statements, the criteria
may be Sri Lanka Accounting Standards or Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standards; when reporting on internal
control, the criteria may be an established internal control framework or individual control objectives specifically
designed for the engagement; and when reporting on compliance, the criteria may be the applicable law, regulation or
contract. Examples of less formal criteria are an internally developed code of conduct or an agreed level of performance
(such as the number of times a particular committee is expected to meet in a year).
35. Suitable criteria are required for reasonably consistent evaluation or measurement of a subject matter within the
context of professional judgment. Without the frame of reference provided by suitable criteria, any conclusion is
open to individual interpretation and misunderstanding. Suitable criteria are context-sensitive, that is, relevant to the
engagement circumstances. Even for the same subject matter there can be different criteria. For example, one responsible
party might select the number of customer complaints resolved to the acknowledged satisfaction of the customer for
the subject matter of customer satisfaction; another responsible party might select the number of repeat purchases in
the three months following the initial purchase.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
28A
36. Suitable criteria exhibit the following characteristics :
(a) Relevance: relevant criteria contribute to conclusions that assist decision-making by the intended users ;
(b) Completeness: criteria are sufficiently complete when relevant factors that could affect the conclusions in the
context of the engagement circumstances are not omitted. Complete criteria include, where relevant, benchmarks
for presentation and disclosure ;
(c) Reliability: reliable criteria allow reasonably consistent evaluation or measurement of the subject matter including,
where relevant, presentation and disclosure, when used in similar circumstances by similarly qualified
practitioners ;
(d) Neutrality: neutral criteria contribute to conclusions that are free from bias ;
(e) Understandability: understandable criteria contribute to conclusions that are clear, comprehensive, and not
subject to significantly different interpretations.
The evaluation or measurement of a subject matter on the basis of the practitioner’s own expectations, judgments and
individual experience would not constitute suitable criteria.
37. The practitioner assesses the suitability of criteria for a particular engagement by considering whether they reflect
the above characteristics. The relative importance of each characteristic to a particular engagement is a matter of
judgment. Criteria can either be established or specifically developed. Established criteria are those embodied in laws
or regulations, or issued by authorized or recognized bodies of experts that follow a transparent due process.
Specifically developed criteria are those designed for the purpose of the engagement. Whether criteria are established
or specifically developed affects the work that the practitioner carries out to assess their suitability for a particular
engagement.
38. Criteria need to be available to the intended users to allow them to understand how the subject matter has been
evaluated or measured. Criteria are made available to the intended users in one or more of the following ways :
(a) Publicly ;
(b) Through inclusion in a clear manner in the presentation of the subject matter information ;
(c) Through inclusion in a clear manner in the assurance report ;
(d) By general understanding, for example the criterion for measuring time in hours and minutes.
Criteria may also be available only to specific intended users, for example the terms of a contract, or criteria issued by
an industry association that are available only to those in the industry. When identified criteria are available only to
specific intended users, or are relevant only to a specific purpose, use of the assurance report is restricted to those
users or for that purpose.
8
FORK
Evidence
39. The practitioner plans and performs an assurance engagement with an attitude of professional skepticism to obtain
sufficient appropriate evidence about whether the subject matter information is free of material misstatement. The
8 While an assurance report may be restricted whenever it is intended only for specified intended users or for a specific purpose , the
absence of a restriction regarding a particular reader or purpose, does not itself indicate that a legal responsibility is owed  by the
practitioner in relation to that reader or for that purpose. Whether a legal responsibility is owed will depend on the circumst ances of
each case and the relevant jurisdiction.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
29A
practitioner considers materiality, assurance engagement risk, and the quantity and quality of available evidence
when planning and performing the engagement, in particular when determining the nature, timing and extent of
evidence-gathering procedures.
Professional Skepticism
40. The practitioner plans and performs an assurance engagement with an attitude of professional skepticism recognizing
that circumstances may exist that cause the subject matter information to be materially misstated. An attitude of
professional skepticism means the practitioner makes a critical assessment, with a questioning mind, of the validity of
evidence obtained and is alert to evidence that contradicts or brings into question the reliability of documents or
representations by the responsible party. For example, an attitude of professional skepticism is necessary throughout
the engagement process for the practitioner to reduce the risk of overlooking suspicious circumstances, of over
generalizing when drawing conclusions from observations, and of using faulty assumptions in determining the
nature, timing and extent of evidence gathering procedures and evaluating the results thereof.
41. An assurance engagement rarely involves the authentication of documentation, nor is the practitioner trained as or
expected to be an expert in such authentication. However, the practitioner considers the reliability of the information
to be used as evidence, for example photocopies, facsimiles, filmed, digitized or other electronic documents, including
consideration of controls over their preparation and maintenance where relevant.
Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Evidence
42. Sufficiency is the measure of the quantity of evidence. Appropriateness is the measure of the quality of evidence;
that is, its relevance and its reliability. The quantity of evidence needed is affected by the risk of the subject matter
information being materially misstated (the greater the risk, the more evidence is likely to be required) and also by the
quality of such evidence (the higher the quality, the less may be required). Accordingly, the sufficiency and
appropriateness of evidence are interrelated. However, merely obtaining more evidence may not compensate for its
poor quality.
43. The reliability of evidence is influenced by its source and by its nature, and is dependent on the individual circumstances
under which it is obtained. Generalizations about the reliability of various kinds of evidence can be made; however,
such generalizations are subject to important exceptions. Even when evidence is obtained from sources external to
the entity, circumstances may exist that could affect the reliability of the information obtained. For example, evidence
obtained from an independent external source may not be reliable if the source is not knowledgeable. While recognizing
that exceptions may exist, the following generalizations about the reliability of evidence may be useful:
* Evidence is more reliable when it is obtained from independent sources outside the entity.
*  Evidence that is generated internally is more reliable when the related controls are effective.
* Evidence obtained directly by the practitioner (for example, observation of the application of a control) is more
reliable than evidence obtained indirectly or by inference (for example, inquiry about the application of a
control).
* Evidence is more reliable when it exists in documentary form, whether paper, electronic, or other media (for
example, a contemporaneously written record of a meeting is more reliable than a subsequent oral representation
of what was discussed).
* Evidence provided by original documents is more reliable than evidence provided by photocopies or facsimiles.
44. The practitioner ordinarily obtains more assurance from consistent evidence obtained from different sources or of a
different nature than from items of evidence considered individually. In addition, obtaining evidence from different
sources or of a different nature may indicate that an individual item of evidence is not reliable. For example, corroborating
information obtained from a source independent of the entity may increase the assurance the practitioner obtains

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
30A
from a representation from the responsible party. Conversely, when evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent
with that obtained from another, the practitioner determines what additional evidence-gathering procedures are
necessary to resolve the inconsistency.
45. In terms of obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence, it is generally more difficult to obtain assurance about subject
matter information covering a period than about subject matter information at a point in time. In addition, conclusions
provided on processes ordinarily are limited to the period covered by the engagement; the practitioner provides no
conclusion about whether the process will continue to function in the specified manner in the future.
46. The practitioner considers the relationship between the cost of obtaining evidence and the usefulness of the information
obtained. However, the matter of difficulty or expense involved is not in itself a valid basis for omitting an evidence-
gathering procedure for which there is no alternative. The practitioner uses professional judgment and exercises
professional skepticism in evaluating the quantity and quality of evidence, and thus its sufficiency and appropriateness,
to support the assurance report.
Materiality
47. Materiality is relevant when the practitioner determines the nature, timing and extent of evidence-gathering procedures,
and when assessing whether the subject matter information is free of misstatement. When considering materiality, the
practitioner understands and assesses what factors might influence the decisions of the intended users. For example,
when the identified criteria allow for variations in the presentation of the subject matter information, the practitioner
considers how the adopted presentation might influence the decisions of the intended users. Materiality is considered
in the context of quantitative and qualitative factors, such as relative magnitude, the nature and extent of the effect of
these factors on the evaluation or measurement of the subject matter, and the interests of the intended users. The
assessment of materiality and the relative importance of quantitative and qualitative factors in a particular engagement
are matters for the practitioner’s judgment.
Assurance Engagement Risk
48. Assurance engagement risk is the risk that the practitioner expresses an inappropriate conclusion when the subject
matter information is materially misstated.
9 In a reasonable assurance engagement, the practitioner reduces assurance
engagement risk to an acceptably low level in the circumstances of the engagement to obtain reasonable assurance
as the basis for a positive form of expression of the practitioner’s conclusion. The level of assurance engagement risk
is higher in a limited assurance engagement than in a reasonable assurance engagement because of the different
nature, timing or extent of evidence-gathering procedures. However in a limited assurance engagement, the combination
of the nature, timing and extent of evidence-gathering procedures is at least sufficient for the practitioner to obtain a
meaningful level of assurance as the basis for a negative form of expression. To be meaningful, the level of assurance
obtained by the practitioner is likely to enhance the intended users’ confidence about the subject matter information
to a degree that is clearly more than inconsequential.
49. In general, assurance engagement risk can be represented by the following components, although not all of these
components will necessarily be present or significant for all assurance engagements :
(a) The risk that the subject matter information is materially misstated, which in turn consists of :
(i) Inherent risk: the susceptibility of the subject matter information to a material misstatement, assuming that
there are no related controls ; and
9 (a) This includes the risk, in those direct reporting engagements where the subject matter information is presented only in the
practitioner’s conclusion, that the practitioner inappropriately concludes that the subject matter does, in all material respec ts,
conform with the criteria, for example: “In our opinion, internal control is effective, in all material respects, based on XYZ
criteria.”
(b) In addition to assurance engagement risk, the practitioner is exposed to the risk of expressing an inappropriate conclusion wh en
the subject matter information is not materially misstated, and risks through loss from litigation, adverse publicity, or other
events arising in connection with a subject matter reported on. These risks are not part of assurance engagement risk.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
31A
(ii) Control risk: the risk that a material misstatement that could occur will not be prevented, or detected and
corrected, on a timely basis by related internal controls. When control risk is relevant to the subject matter,
some control risk will always exist because of the inherent limitations of the design and operation of
internal control ; and
(b) Detection risk: the risk that the practitioner will not detect a material misstatement that exists.
The degree to which the practitioner considers each of these components is affected by the engagement circumstances,
in particular by the nature of the subject matter and whether a reasonable assurance or a limited assurance engagement
is being performed.
Nature, Timing and Extent of Evidence-Gathering Procedures
50. The exact nature, timing and extent of evidence-gathering procedures will vary from one engagement to the next. In
theory, infinite variations in evidence-gathering procedures are possible. In practice, however, these are difficult to
communicate clearly and unambiguously. The practitioner attempts to communicate them clearly and unambiguously
and uses the form appropriate to a reasonable assurance engagement or a limited assurance engagement.
10
51. “Reasonable assurance” is a concept relating to accumulating evidence necessary for the practitioner to conclude in
relation to the subject matter information taken as a whole. To be in a position to express a conclusion in the positive
form required in a reasonable assurance engagement, it is necessary for the practitioner to obtain sufficient appropriate
evidence as part of an iterative, systematic engagement process involving :
FRAMEWORK
(a) Obtaining an understanding of the subject matter and other engagement circumstances which, depending on
the subject matter, includes obtaining an understanding of internal control
(b) Based on that understanding, assessing the risks that the subject matter information may be materially misstated
;
(c) Responding to assessed risks, including developing overall responses, and determining the nature, timing and
extent of further procedures ;
(d) Performing further procedures clearly linked to the identified risks, using a combination of inspection, observation,
confirmation, re-calculation, re-performance, analytical procedures and inquiry. Such further procedures involve
substantive procedures including, where applicable, obtaining corroborating information from sources
independent of the responsible party, and depending on the nature of the subject matter, tests of the operating
effectiveness of controls ; and
(e) Evaluating the sufficiency and appropriateness of evidence.
52. “Reasonable assurance” is less than absolute assurance. Reducing assurance engagement risk to zero is very rarely
attainable or cost beneficial as a result of factors such as the following:
*  The use of selective testing.
*  The inherent limitations of internal control.
10 Where the subject matter information is made up of a number of aspects, separate conclusions may be provided on each aspect. Wh ile
not all such conclusions need to relate to the same level of evidence-gathering procedures, each conclusion is expressed in the  form
that is appropriate to either a reasonable assurance or a limited assurance engagement.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
32A
*  The fact that much of the evidence available to the practitioner is persuasive rather than conclusive.
*  The use of judgment in gathering and evaluating evidence and forming conclusions based on that evidence.
* In some cases, the characteristics of the subject matter when evaluated or measured against the identified
criteria.
53. Both reasonable assurance and limited assurance engagements require the application of assurance skills and
techniques and the gathering of sufficient appropriate evidence as part of an iterative, systematic engagement
process that includes obtaining an understanding of the subject matter and other engagement circumstances. The
nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence in a limited assurance engagement
are, however, deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. For some subject matters, there may
be specific pronouncements to provide guidance on procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence for a
limited assurance engagement. For example, SLSRE 2400, “Engagements to Review Financial Statements” establishes
that sufficient appropriate evidence for reviews of financial statements is obtained primarily through analytical
procedures and inquiries. In the absence of a relevant pronouncement, the procedures for gathering sufficient
appropriate evidence will vary with the circumstances of the engagement, in particular, the subject matter, and the
needs of the intended users and the engaging party, including relevant time and cost constraints. For both reasonable
assurance and limited assurance engagements, if the practitioner becomes aware of a matter that leads the practitioner
to question whether a material modification should be made to the subject matter information, the practitioner
pursues the matter by performing other procedures sufficient to enable the practitioner to report.
Quantity and Quality of Available Evidence
54. The quantity or quality of available evidence is affected by :
(a) The characteristics of the subject matter and subject matter information. For example, less objective evidence
might be expected when information about the subject matter is future oriented rather than historical (see
paragraph 32) ; and
(b) Circumstances of the engagement other than the characteristics of the subject matter, when evidence that could
reasonably be expected to exist is not available because of, for example, the timing of the practitioner’s
appointment, an entity’s document retention policy, or a restriction imposed by the responsible party.
Ordinarily, available evidence will be persuasive rather than conclusive.
55. An unqualified conclusion is not appropriate for either type of assurance engagement in the case of a material
limitation on the scope of the practitioner’s work, that is, when :
(a) Circumstances prevent the practitioner from obtaining evidence required to reduce assurance engagement risk
to the appropriate level ; or
(b) The responsible party or the engaging party imposes a restriction that prevents the practitioner from obtaining
evidence required to reduce assurance engagement risk to the appropriate level.
Assurance Report
56. The practitioner provides a written report containing a conclusion that conveys the assurance obtained about the
subject matter information. SLAuSs, SLSREs and SLSAEs establish basic elements for assurance reports. In addition,
the practitioner considers other reporting responsibilities, including communicating with those charged with
governance when it is appropriate to do so.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
33A
FRAMEWORK
57. In an assertion-based engagement, the practitioner’s conclusion can be worded either :
(a) In terms of the responsible party’s assertion (for example: “In our opinion the responsible party’s assertion that
internal control is effective, in all material respects, based on XYZ criteria, is fairly stated”) ; or
(b) Directly in terms of the subject matter and the criteria (for example: “In our opinion internal control is effective,
in all material respects, based on XYZ criteria”).
In a direct reporting engagement, the practitioner’s conclusion is worded directly in terms of the subject matter and
the criteria.
58. In a reasonable assurance engagement, the practitioner expresses the conclusion in the positive form, for example:
“In our opinion internal control is effective, in all material respects, based on XYZ criteria.” This form of expression
conveys “reasonable assurance.” Having performed evidence-gathering procedures of a nature, timing and extent
that were reasonable given the characteristics of the subject matter and other relevant engagement circumstances
described in the assurance report, the practitioner has obtained sufficient appropriate evidence to reduce assurance
engagement risk to an acceptably low level.
59. In a limited assurance engagement, the practitioner expresses the conclusion in the negative form, for example,
“Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that internal
control is not effective, in all material respects, based on XYZ criteria.” This form of expression conveys a level of
“limited assurance” that is proportional to the level of the practitioner’s evidence-gathering procedures given the
characteristics of the subject matter and other engagement circumstances described in the assurance report.
60. A practitioner does not express an unqualified conclusion for either type of assurance engagement when the following
circumstances exist and, in the practitioner’s judgment, the effect of the matter is or may be material :
(a) There is a limitation on the scope of the practitioner’s work (see paragraph 55). The practitioner expresses a
qualified conclusion or a disclaimer of conclusion depending on how material or pervasive the limitation is. In
some cases the practitioner considers withdrawing from the engagement ;
(b) In those cases where :
(i) The practitioner’s conclusion is worded in terms of the responsible party’s assertion, and that assertion is
not fairly stated, in all material respects ; or
(ii) The practitioner’s conclusion is worded directly in terms of the subject matter and the criteria, and the
subject matter information is materially misstated,
11
the practitioner expresses a qualified or adverse conclusion depending on how material or pervasive the matter
is.
(c) When it is discovered after the engagement has been accepted, that the criteria are unsuitable or the subject
matter is not appropriate for an assurance engagement. The practitioner expresses :
(i) A qualified conclusion or adverse conclusion depending on how material or pervasive the matter is, when
the unsuitable criteria or inappropriate subject matter is likely to mislead the intended users; or
11 In those direct reporting engagements where the subject matter information is presented only in the practitioner’s conclusion, and the
practitioner concludes that the subject matter does not, in all material respects, conform with the criteria, for example: “In our opinion,
except for […], internal control is effective, in all material respects, based on XYZ criteria, ” such a conclusion would also be considered
to be qualified (or adverse as appropriate).

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
34A
(ii) A qualified conclusion or a disclaimer of conclusion depending on how material or pervasive the matter is,
in other cases.
In some cases the practitioner considers withdrawing from the engagement.
Inappropriate Use of the Practitioner’s Name
61. A practitioner is associated with a subject matter when the practitioner reports on information about that subject
matter or consents to the use of the practitioner’s name in a professional connection with that subject matter. If the
practitioner is not associated in this manner, third parties can assume no responsibility of the practitioner. If the
practitioner learns that a party is inappropriately using the practitioner’s name in association with a subject matter, the
practitioner requires the party to cease doing so. The practitioner also considers what other steps may be needed,
such as informing any known third party users of the inappropriate use of the practitioner’s name or seeking legal
advice.
FRAM
Public Sector Perspective
1. This Framework is relevant to all professional accountants in the public sector who are independent of the entity
for which they perform assurance engagements. Where professional accountants in the public sector are not
independent of the entity for which they perform an assurance engagement, the guidance in footnote 1 should be
adopted.
Appendix
Differences Between Reasonable Assurance Engagements and Limited Assurance Engagements
This Appendix outlines the differences between a reasonable assurance engagement and a limited assurance
engagement discussed in the Framework (see in particular the referenced paragraphs).
Type of engagement Objective Evidence-gathering The assurance report
procedures
12
12 A detailed discussion of evidence-gathering requirements is only possible within SLSAEs for specific subject matters.
Reasonable assurance
engagement
A reduction in Assurance
engagement risk to an
acceptabllow level in the
circumstances of the
engagement,as the basis for a
positive form of expression of
the practitioner’s conclusion
(Paragraph 11)
Sufficient appropriate evidence
is obtained as part of a
systematic engagement
process sthat includes:
* Obtaining an under
standing of the
engagement
circumstances ;
 * Assessing risks ;
* Responding to assessed
risks;
* Performing further
procedures using a

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
35A
combination of inspection,
observation, confirmation,
re calculation,
reperformance, analytical
procedures and inquiry.
Such further procedures
involve substantive
procedures,including ,
where applicable
obtaining corroborating
information, and
depending on the nature
of thesubject matter, tests
of  the operating
effectiveness ofcontrols;
and ;
* Evaluating the evidence
obtained (Paragraphs
51and 52)
Description of the
engagement
circumstances,and a
positive form of
expression of the
conclusion (Paragraph
58)
Type of engagement Objective Evidence-gathering The assurance report
procedures
12
SCHEDULE  (Contd.)
Limited  assurance
engagement
A reduction in assurance
engagement risk to a level that
is acceptable in the
circumstances of the
engagement but where that
risk is greater than for a
reasonable assurance
engagement, as the basis  for a
negative form of expression of
the practitioner’s conclusion
(Paragraph 11)
Sufficient appropriate evidence
is obtained as part of a
systematic engagement
process that  includes
obtaining an understanding of
the subject matter and other
engagement circumstances,
but in which procedures are
deliberately limited  relative to
a reasonable assurance
engagement (Paragraph 53)
Description of the
engagement
circumstances,and a
negative form of
expression of the
conclusion (Paragraph
59)

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
36A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  200
OVERALL OBJECTIVES OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR AND THE CONDUCT OF AN AUDIT IN
ACCORDANCE WITH SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARDS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS  ............................................................................ 1 - 2
An Audit of Financial Statements ........................................................ 3 - 9
Effective Date  ....................................................................................... 10
Overall Objectives of the Auditor ..................................................... 11 - 12
Definitions  ........................................................................................... 13
Requirements
Ethical Requirements Relating to an Audit of Financial Statements ... 14
Professional Skepticism ....................................................................... 15
Professional Judgment .......................................................................... 16
Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence and Audit Risk ....................... 17
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with SLAuSs .............................. 18 - 24
Application and Other Explanatory Material
An Audit of Financial Statements  ........................................................ A1 - A13
Ethical Requirements Relating to an Audit of Financial Statements ... A14 - A17
Professional Skepticism  ....................................................................... A18 - A22
Professional Judgment  ......................................................................... A23 - A27
Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence and Audit Risk ....................... A28 - A52
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with SLAuSs  ............................... A53 - A76
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the independent auditor’s overall responsibilities when
conducting an audit of financial statements in accordance with SLAuSs. Specifically, it sets out the overall objectives
of the independent auditor, and explains the nature and scope of an audit designed to enable the independent auditor
to meet those objectives. It also explains the scope, authority and structure of the SLAuSs, and includes requirements
establishing the general responsibilities of the independent auditor applicable in all audits, including the obligation
to comply with the SLAuSs. The independent auditor is referred to as “the auditor” hereafter.
2. SLAuSs are written in the context of an audit of financial statements by an auditor. They are to be adapted as
necessary in the circumstances when applied to audits of other historical financial information. SLAuSs do not
address the responsibilities of the auditor that may exist in legislation, regulation or otherwise in connection with, for
example, the offering of securities to the public. Such responsibilities may differ from those established in the
SLAuSs. Accordingly, while the auditor may find aspects of the SLAuSs helpful in such circumstances, it is the
responsibility of the auditor to ensure compliance with all relevant legal, regulatory or professional obligations.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
37A
An Audit of Financial Statements
3. The purpose of an audit is to enhance the degree of confidence of intended users in the financial statements. This is
achieved by the expression of an opinion by the auditor on whether the financial statements are prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with an applicable financial reporting framework. In the case of most general purpose
frameworks, that opinion is on whether the financial statements are presented fairly, in all material respects, or give a
true and fair view in accordance with the framework. An audit conducted in accordance with SLAuSs and relevant
ethical requirements enables the auditor to form that opinion. (Ref: Para. A1)
4. The financial statements subject to audit are those of the entity, prepared by management of the entity with oversight
from those charged with governance. SLAuSs do not impose responsibilities on management or those charged with
governance and do not override laws and regulations that govern their responsibilities. However, an audit in accordance
with SLAuSs is conducted on the premise that management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance
have acknowledged certain responsibilities that are fundamental to the conduct of the audit. The audit of the financial
statements does not relieve management or those charged with governance of their responsibilities. (Ref: Para.
A2-A11)
AUDITING
5. As the basis for the auditor’s opinion, SLAuSs require the auditor to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance. It is obtained when the auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate audit
evidence to reduce audit risk (that is, the risk that the auditor expresses an inappropriate opinion when the financial
statements are materially misstated) to an acceptably low level. However, reasonable assurance is not an absolute
level of assurance, because there are inherent limitations of an audit which result in most of the audit evidence on
which the auditor draws conclusions and bases the auditor’s opinion being persuasive rather than conclusive. (Ref:
Para. A28-A52)
6. The concept of materiality is applied by the auditor both in planning and performing the audit, and in evaluating the
effect of identified misstatements on the audit and of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements.
1
In general, misstatements, including omissions, are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial
statements. Judgments about materiality are made in the light of surrounding circumstances, and are affected by the
auditor’s perception of the financial information needs of users of the financial statements, and by the size or nature
of a misstatement, or a combination of both. The auditor’s opinion deals with the financial statements as a whole and
therefore the auditor is not responsible for the detection of misstatements that are not material to the financial
statements as a whole.
7. The SLAuSs contain objectives, requirements and application and other explanatory material that are designed to
support the auditor in obtaining reasonable assurance. The SLAuSs require that the auditor exercise professional
judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the planning and performance of the audit and, among
other things:
*  Identify and assess risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, based on an understanding of
the entity and its environment, including the entity’s internal control.
*  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about whether material misstatements exist, through designing
and implementing appropriate responses to the assessed risks.
*  Form an opinion on the financial statements based on conclusions drawn from the audit evidence obtained.
1 SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit” and SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the
Audit.”

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
38A
8. The form of opinion expressed by the auditor will depend upon the applicable financial reporting framework and any
applicable law or regulation. (Ref: Para. A12-A13)
9. The auditor may also have certain other communication and reporting responsibilities to users, management, those
charged with governance, or parties outside the entity, in relation to matters arising from the audit. These may be
established by the SLAuSs or by applicable law or regulation.
2
Effective Date
10. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Overall Objectives of the Auditor
11. In conducting an audit of financial statements, the overall objectives of the auditor are:
(a) To obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, thereby enabling the auditor to express an opinion on whether the
financial statements are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with an applicable financial reporting
framework; and
(b) To report on the financial statements, and communicate as required by the SLAuSs, in accordance with the
auditor’s findings.
12. In all cases when reasonable assurance cannot be obtained and a qualified opinion in the auditor’s report is insufficient
in the circumstances for purposes of reporting to the intended users of the financial statements, the SLAuSs require
that the auditor disclaim an opinion or withdraw (or resign)
3 from the engagement, where withdrawal is possible under
applicable law or regulation.
Definitions
13. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Applicable financial reporting framework – The financial reporting framework adopted by management and,
where appropriate, those charged with governance in the preparation of the financial statements that is acceptable
in view of the nature of the entity and the objective of the financial statements, or that is required by law or
regulation.
AUDITING
The term “fair presentation framework” is used to refer to a financial reporting framework that requires compliance
with the requirements of the framework and:
(i) Acknowledges explicitly or implicitly that, to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements, it may
be necessary for management to provide disclosures beyond those specifically required by the framework;
or
(ii) Acknowledges explicitly that it may be necessary for management to depart from a requirement of the
framework to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements. Such departures are expected to be
necessary only in extremely rare circumstances.
The term “compliance framework” is used to refer to a financial reporting framework that requires compliance
with the requirements of the framework, but does not contain the acknowledgements in (i) or (ii) above.
2 See, for example, SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance;” and paragraph 43 of SLAuS 240, “The
Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements.”
3 In the SLAuSs, only the term “withdrawal” is used.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
39A
(b) Audit evidence – Information used by the auditor in arriving at the conclusions on which the auditor’s opinion
is based. Audit evidence includes both information contained in the accounting records underlying the financial
statements and other information. For purposes of the SLAuSs:
(i) Sufficiency of audit evidence is the measure of the quantity of audit evidence. The quantity of the audit
evidence needed is affected by the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement and also by
the quality of such audit evidence.
(ii) Appropriateness of audit evidence is the measure of the quality of audit evidence; that is, its relevance
and its reliability in providing support for the conclusions on which the auditor’s opinion is based.
(c) Audit risk – The risk that the auditor expresses an inappropriate audit opinion when the financial statements are
materially misstated. Audit risk is a function of the risks of material misstatement and detection risk.
(d) Auditor – “Auditor” is used to refer to the person or persons conducting the audit, usually the engagement
partner or other members of the engagement team, or, as applicable, the firm. Where a SLAuS expressly intends
that a requirement or responsibility be fulfilled by the engagement partner, the term “engagement partner”
rather than “auditor” is used. “Engagement partner” and “firm” are to be read as referring to their public sector
equivalents where relevant.
(e) Detection risk – The risk that the procedures performed by the auditor to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low
level will not detect a misstatement that exists and that could be material, either individually or when aggregated
with other misstatements.
(f) Financial statements – A structured representation of historical financial information, including related notes,
intended to communicate an entity’s economic resources or obligations at a point in time or the changes therein
for a period of time in accordance with a financial reporting framework. The related notes ordinarily comprise a
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The term “financial statements”
ordinarily refers to a complete set of financial statements as determined by the requirements of the applicable
financial reporting framework, but can also refer to a single financial statement.
(g) Historical financial information – Information expressed in financial terms in relation to a particular entity,
derived primarily from that entity’s accounting system, about economic events occurring in past time periods
or about economic conditions or circumstances at points in time in the past.
(h) Management – The person(s) with executive responsibility for the conduct of the entity’s operations. For some
entities in some jurisdictions, management includes some or all of those charged with governance, for example,
executive members of a governance board, or an owner-manager.
(i) Misstatement – A difference between the amount, classification, presentation, or disclosure of a reported
financial statement item and the amount, classification, presentation, or disclosure that is required for the item
to be in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. Misstatements can arise from error or
fraud.
Where the auditor expresses an opinion on whether the financial statements are presented fairly, in all material
respects, or give a true and fair view, misstatements also include those adjustments of amounts, classifications,
presentation, or disclosures that, in the auditor’s judgment, are necessary for the financial statements to be
presented fairly, in all material respects, or to give a true and fair view.
(j) Premise, relating to the responsibilities of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance,
on which an audit is conducted – That management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance
have acknowledged and understand that they have the following responsibilities that are fundamental to the
conduct of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs. That is, responsibility:

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
40A
(i) For the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework, including where relevant their fair presentation;
(ii) For such internal control as management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance determine
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error; and
UDITING
(iii) To provide the auditor with:
a. Access to all information of which management and, where appropriate, those charged with
governance are aware that is relevant to the preparation of the financial statements such as records,
documentation and other matters;
b. Additional information that the auditor may request from management and, where appropriate,
those charged with governance for the purpose of the audit; and
c. Unrestricted access to persons within the entity from whom the auditor determines it necessary to
obtain audit evidence.
In the case of a fair presentation framework, (i) above may be restated as “for the preparation and fair presentation
of the financial statements in accordance with the financial reporting framework,” or “for the preparation of
financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework.”
The “premise, relating to the responsibilities of management and, where appropriate, those charged with
governance, on which an audit is conducted” may also be referred to as the “premise.”
(k) Professional judgment – The application of relevant training, knowledge and experience, within the context
provided by auditing, accounting and ethical standards, in making informed decisions about the courses of
action that are appropriate in the circumstances of the audit engagement.
(l) Professional skepticism – An attitude that includes a questioning mind, being alert to conditions which may
indicate possible misstatement due to error or fraud, and a critical assessment of audit evidence.
(m) Reasonable assurance – In the context of an audit of financial statements, a high, but not absolute, level of
assurance.
(n) Risk of material misstatement – The risk that the financial statements are materially misstated prior to audit. This
consists of two components, described as follows at the assertion level:
(i) Inherent risk – The susceptibility of an assertion about a class of transaction, account balance or disclosure
to a misstatement that could be material, either individually or when aggregated with other misstatements,
before consideration of any related controls.
(ii) Control risk – The risk that a misstatement that could occur in an assertion about a class of transaction,
account balance or disclosure and that could be material, either individually or when aggregated with
other misstatements, will not be prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis by the entity’s
internal control.
(o) Those charged with governance – The person(s) or organization(s) (for example, a corporate trustee) with
responsibility for overseeing the strategic direction of the entity and obligations related to the accountability
of the entity. This includes overseeing the financial reporting process. For some entities in some jurisdictions,
those charged with governance may include management personnel, for example, executive members of a
governance board of a private or public sector entity, or an owner-manager.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
41A
Requirements
Ethical Requirements Relating to an Audit of Financial Statements
14. The auditor shall comply with relevant ethical requirements, including those pertaining to independence, relating to
financial statement audit engagements. (Ref: Para. A14-A17)
Professional Skepticism
15. The auditor shall plan and perform an audit with professional skepticism recognizing that circumstances may exist
that cause the financial statements to be materially misstated. (Ref: Para. A18-A22)
Professional Judgment
16. The auditor shall exercise professional judgment in planning and performing an audit of financial statements. (Ref:
Para. A23-A27)
Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence and Audit Risk
17. To obtain reasonable assurance, the auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to reduce audit risk to
an acceptably low level and thereby enable the auditor to draw reasonable conclusions on which to base the auditor’s
opinion. (Ref: Para. A28-A52)
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with SLAuSs
Complying with SLAuSs Relevant to the Audit
18. The auditor shall comply with all SLAuSs relevant to the audit. A SLAuS is relevant to the audit when the SLAuS is
in effect and the circumstances addressed by the SLAuS exist. (Ref: Para. A53-A57)
19. The auditor shall have an understanding of the entire text of a SLAuS, including its application and other explanatory
material, to understand its objectives and to apply its requirements properly. (Ref: Para. A58-A66)
20. The auditor shall not represent compliance with SLAuSs in the auditor’s report unless the auditor has complied with
the requirements of this SLAuS and all other SLAuSs relevant to the audit.
AUDITING
Objectives Stated in Individual SLAuSs
21. To achieve the overall objectives of the auditor, the auditor shall use the objectives stated in relevant SLAuSs in
planning and performing the audit, having regard to the interrelationships among the SLAuSs, to: (Ref: Para.
A67-A69)
(a) Determine whether any audit procedures in addition to those required by the SLAuSs are necessary in pursuance
of the objectives stated in the SLAuSs; and (Ref: Para. A70)
(b) Evaluate whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained. (Ref: Para. A71)
Complying with Relevant Requirements
22. Subject to paragraph 23, the auditor shall comply with each requirement of a SLAuS unless, in the circumstances of
the audit:
(a) The entire SLAuS is not relevant; or
(b) The requirement is not relevant because it is conditional and the condition does not exist. (Ref: Para. A72-A73)

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
42A
23. In exceptional circumstances, the auditor may judge it necessary to depart from a relevant requirement in a SLAuS. In
such circumstances, the auditor shall perform alternative audit procedures to achieve the aim of that requirement. The
need for the auditor to depart from a relevant requirement is expected to arise only where the requirement is for a
specific procedure to be performed and, in the specific circumstances of the audit, that procedure would be ineffective
in achieving the aim of the requirement. (Ref: Para. A74)
Failure to Achieve an Objective
24. If an objective in a relevant SLAuS cannot be achieved, the auditor shall evaluate whether this prevents the auditor
from achieving the overall objectives of the auditor and thereby requires the auditor, in accordance with the SLAuSs,
to modify the auditor’s opinion or withdraw from the engagement (where withdrawal is possible under applicable law
or regulation). Failure to achieve an objective represents a significant matter requiring documentation in accordance
with SLAuS 230.
4 (Ref: Para. A75-A76)
* * *
Application and Other Explanatory Material
An Audit of Financial Statements
Scope of the Audit (Ref: Para. 3)
A1. The auditor’s opinion on the financial statements deals with whether the financial statements are prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. Such an opinion is common to all
audits of financial statements. The auditor’s opinion therefore does not assure, for example, the future viability of the
entity nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which management has conducted the affairs of the entity. In some
jurisdictions, however, applicable law or regulation may require auditors to provide opinions on other specific
matters, such as the effectiveness of internal control, or the consistency of a separate management report with the
financial statements. While the SLAuSs include requirements and guidance in relation to such matters to the extent
that they are relevant to forming an opinion on the financial statements, the auditor would be required to undertake
further work if the auditor had additional responsibilities to provide such opinions.
Preparation of the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 4)
A2. Law or regulation may establish the responsibilities of management and, where appropriate, those charged with
governance in relation to financial reporting. However, the extent of these responsibilities, or the way in which they
are described, may differ across jurisdictions. Despite these differences, an audit in accordance with SLAuSs is
conducted on the premise that management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance have
acknowledged and understand that they have responsibility:
(a) For the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework,
including where relevant their fair presentation;
(b) For such internal control as management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance determine is
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error; and
4 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraph 8(c).

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
43A
(c) To provide the auditor with:
(i) Access to all information of which management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance
are aware that is relevant to the preparation of the financial statements such as records, documentation
and other matters;
(ii) Additional information that the auditor may request from management and, where appropriate, those
charged with governance for the purpose of the audit; and
(iii) Unrestricted access to persons within the entity from whom the auditor determines it necessary to obtain
audit evidence.
A3. The preparation of the financial statements by management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance
requires:
* The identification of the applicable financial reporting framework, in the context of any relevant laws or
regulations.
* The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with that framework.
* The inclusion of an adequate description of that framework in the financial statements.
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to exercise judgment in making accounting estimates
that are reasonable in the circumstances, as well as to select and apply appropriate accounting policies. These
judgments are made in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework.
A4. The financial statements may be prepared in accordance with a financial reporting framework designed to meet:
*  The common financial information needs of a wide range of users (that is, “general purpose financial statements”);
or
* The financial information needs of specific users (that is, “special purpose financial statements”).
A5. The applicable financial reporting framework often encompasses financial reporting standards established by an
authorized or recognized standards setting organization, or legislative or regulatory requirements. In some cases, the
financial reporting framework may encompass both financial reporting standards established by an authorized or
recognized standards setting organization and legislative or regulatory requirements. Other sources may provide
direction on the application of the applicable financial reporting framework. In some cases, the applicable financial
reporting framework may encompass such other sources, or may even consist only of such sources. Such other
sources may include:
*  The legal and ethical environment, including statutes, regulations, court decisions, and professional ethical
obligations in relation to accounting matters;
*  Published accounting interpretations of varying authority issued by standards setting, professional or regulatory
organizations;
*  Published views of varying authority on emerging accounting issues issued by standards setting, professional
or regulatory organizations;
*  General and industry practices widely recognized and prevalent; and
*  Accounting literature.
Where conflicts exist between the financial reporting framework and the sources from which direction on its application
may be obtained, or among the sources that encompass the financial reporting framework, the source with the highest
authority prevails.

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
44A
A6. The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework determine the form and content of the financial
statements. Although the framework may not specify how to account for or disclose all transactions or events, it
ordinarily embodies sufficient broad principles that can serve as a basis for developing and applying accounting
policies that are consistent with the concepts underlying the requirements of the framework.
A7. Some financial reporting frameworks are fair presentation frameworks, while others are compliance frameworks.
Financial reporting frameworks that encompass primarily the financial reporting standards established by an
organization that is authorized or recognized to promulgate standards to be used by entities for preparing general
purpose financial statements are often designed to achieve fair presentation, for example, Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards (SLFRSs) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL).
A8. The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework also determine what constitutes a complete set of
financial statements. In the case of many frameworks, financial statements are intended to provide information about
the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of an entity. For such frameworks, a complete set of
financial statements would include a balance sheet; an income statement; a statement of changes in equity; a cash
flow statement; and related notes. For some other financial reporting frameworks, a single financial statement and the
related notes might constitute a complete set of financial statements:
*  For example, the primary financial statement is a statement of cash receipts and payments when a public sector
entity prepares its financial statements in accordance with cash basis of accounting.
*  Other examples of a single financial statement, each of which would include related notes, are:
o Balance sheet.
o Statement of income or statement of operations.
o Statement of retained earnings.
AUDITING
o Statement of cash flows.
o Statement of assets and liabilities that does not include owner’s equity.
o Statement of changes in owners’ equity.
o Statement of revenue and expenses.
o Statement of operations by product lines.
A9. SLAuS 210 establishes requirements and provides guidance on determining the acceptability of the applicable
financial reporting framework.
5 SLAuS 800 deals with special considerations when financial statements are prepared
in accordance with a special purpose framework.6
A10. Because of the significance of the premise to the conduct of an audit, the auditor is required to obtain the agreement
of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance that they acknowledge and understand that
they have the responsibilities set out in paragraph A2 as a precondition for accepting the audit engagement.
7
5 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements,” paragraph 6(a).
6 SLAuS 800, “Special Considerations—Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks,”
paragraph 8.
7 SLAuS 210, paragraph 6(b).

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
45A
Considerations Specific to Audits in the Public Sector
A11. The mandates for audits of the financial statements of public sector entities may be broader than those of other
entities. As a result, the premise, relating to management’s responsibilities, on which an audit of the financial statements
of a public sector entity is conducted may include additional responsibilities, such as the responsibility for the
execution of transactions and events in accordance with law, regulation or other authority.
8
Form of the Auditor’ s Opinion (Ref: Para. 8)
A12. The opinion expressed by the auditor is on whether the financial statements are prepared, in all material respects, in
accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. The form of the auditor’s opinion, however, will depend
upon the applicable financial reporting framework and any applicable law or regulation. Most financial reporting
frameworks include requirements relating to the presentation of the financial statements; for such frameworks,
preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework includes
presentation .
A13. Where the financial reporting framework is a fair presentation framework, as is generally the case for general purpose
financial statements, the opinion required by the SLAuSs is on whether the financial statements are presented fairly,
in all material respects, or give a true and fair view. Where the financial reporting framework is a compliance framework,
the opinion required is on whether the financial statements are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with
the framework. Unless specifically stated otherwise, references in the SLAuSs to the auditor’s opinion cover both
forms of opinion.
Ethical Requirements Relating to an Audit of Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 14)
A14. The auditor is subject to relevant ethical requirements, including those pertaining to independence, relating to
financial statement audit engagements. Relevant ethical requirements ordinarily comprise Parts A and B of the Code
of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (the ICASL
Code) related to an audit of financial statements together with national requirements that are more restrictive.
A15. Part A of the ICASL Code establishes the fundamental principles of professional ethics relevant to the auditor when
conducting an audit of financial statements and provides a conceptual framework for applying those principles. The
fundamental principles with which the auditor is required to comply by the ICASL Code are:
(a) Integrity;
(b) Objectivity;
(c) Professional competence and due care;
(d) Confidentiality; and
(e) Professional behavior.
Part B of the ICASL Code illustrates how the conceptual framework is to be applied in specific situations.
A16. In the case of an audit engagement it is in the public interest and, therefore, required by the ICASL Code, that the
auditor be independent of the entity subject to the audit. The ICASL Code describes independence as comprising
both independence of mind and independence in appearance. The auditor’s independence from the entity safeguards
the auditor’s ability to form an audit opinion without being affected by influences that might compromise that
opinion. Independence enhances the auditor’s ability to act with integrity, to be objective and to maintain an attitude
of professional skepticism.
AUDITING
8 See paragraph A 57.

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
46A
A17. Sri Lanka Standard on Quality Control (SLSQC) 19, 10 deal with the firm’s responsibilities to establish and maintain its
system of quality control for audit engagements. SLSQC 1 sets out the responsibilities of the firm for establishing
policies and procedures designed to provide it with reasonable assurance that the firm and its personnel comply with
relevant ethical requirements, including those pertaining to independence.
11 SLAuS 220 sets out the engagement
partner’s responsibilities with respect to relevant ethical requirements. These include remaining alert, through
observation and making inquiries as necessary, for evidence of non-compliance with relevant ethical requirements by
members of the engagement team, determining the appropriate action if matters come to the engagement partner’s
attention that indicate that members of the engagement team have not complied with relevant ethical requirements,
and forming a conclusion on compliance with independence requirements that apply to the audit engagement.
12
SLAuS 220 recognizes that the engagement team is entitled to rely on a firm’s system of quality control in meeting its
responsibilities with respect to quality control procedures applicable to the individual audit engagement, unless
information provided by the firm or other parties suggests otherwise.
Professional Skepticism (Ref: Para. 15)
A18. Professional skepticism includes being alert to, for example:
*  Audit evidence that contradicts other audit evidence obtained.
*  Information that brings into question the reliability of documents and responses to inquiries to be used as
audit evidence.
*  Conditions that may indicate possible fraud.
*  Circumstances that suggest the need for audit procedures in addition to those required by the SLAuSs.
A19. Maintaining professional skepticism throughout the audit is necessary if the auditor is, for example, to reduce the
risks of:
*  Overlooking unusual circumstances.
*  Over generalizing when drawing conclusions from audit observations.
*  Using inappropriate assumptions in determining the nature, timing, and extent of the audit procedures and
evaluating the results thereof.
A20. Professional skepticism is necessary to the critical assessment of audit evidence. This includes questioning
contradictory audit evidence and the reliability of documents and responses to inquiries and other information
obtained from management and those charged with governance. It also includes consideration of the sufficiency and
appropriateness of audit evidence obtained in the light of the circumstances, for example in the case where fraud risk
factors exist and a single document, of a nature that is susceptible to fraud, is the sole supporting evidence for a
material financial statement amount.
A21. The auditor may accept records and documents as genuine unless the auditor has reason to believe the contrary.
Nevertheless, the auditor is required to consider the reliability of information to be used as audit evidence.
13 In cases
of doubt about the reliability of information or indications of possible fraud (for example, if conditions identified
during the audit cause the auditor to believe that a document may not be authentic or that terms in a document may
have been falsified), the SLAuSs require that the auditor investigate further and determine what modifications or
additions to audit procedures are necessary to resolve the matter.
14
9 Sri Lanka Standard on Quality Control (SLSQC) 1, “Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial
Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.”
10 Not used
11 SLSQC 1, paragraphs 20-25.
12 SLAuS 220, paragraphs 9-12
13 SLAuS 500, "Audit Evidence," paragraphs 7-9
14 SLAuS 240, paragraphs 13 ; SLAuS 500, paragraph 11 ; SLAuS 505, "External Confirmations," paragraph 10-11, and 16.

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
47A
A22. The auditor cannot be expected to disregard past experience of the honesty and integrity of the entity’s management
and those charged with governance. Nevertheless, a belief that management and those charged with governance are
honest and have integrity does not relieve the auditor of the need to maintain professional skepticism or allow the
auditor to be satisfied with less-than-persuasive audit evidence when obtaining reasonable assurance.
Professional Judgment (Ref: Para. 16)
A23. Professional judgment is essential to the proper conduct of an audit. This is because interpretation of relevant ethical
requirements and the SLAuSs and the informed decisions required throughout the audit cannot be made without the
application of relevant knowledge and experience to the facts and circumstances. Professional judgment is necessary
in particular regarding decisions about:
*  Materiality and audit risk.
*  The nature, timing, and extent of audit procedures used to meet the requirements of the SLAuSs and gather
audit evidence.
*  Evaluating whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained, and whether more needs to be
done to achieve the objectives of the SLAuSs and thereby, the overall objectives of the auditor.
·AUDITING
*  The evaluation of management’s judgments in applying the entity’s applicable financial reporting framework.
*  The drawing of conclusions based on the audit evidence obtained, for example, assessing the reasonableness
of the estimates made by management in preparing the financial statements.
A24. The distinguishing feature of the professional judgment expected of an auditor is that it is exercised by an auditor
whose training, knowledge and experience have assisted in developing the necessary competencies to achieve
reasonable judgments.
A25. The exercise of professional judgment in any particular case is based on the facts and circumstances that are known
by the auditor. Consultation on difficult or contentious matters during the course of the audit, both within the
engagement team and between the engagement team and others at the appropriate level within or outside the firm,
such as that required by SLAuS 220,
15 assist the auditor in making informed and reasonable judgments.
A26. Professional judgment can be evaluated based on whether the judgment reached reflects a competent application of
auditing and accounting principles and is appropriate in the light of, and consistent with, the facts and circumstances
that were known to the auditor up to the date of the auditor’s report.
A27. Professional judgment needs to be exercised throughout the audit. It also needs to be appropriately documented. In
this regard, the auditor is required to prepare audit documentation sufficient to enable an experienced auditor, having
no previous connection with the audit, to understand the significant professional judgments made in reaching
conclusions on significant matters arising during the audit.
16 Professional judgment is not to be used as the justification
for decisions that are not otherwise supported by the facts and circumstances of the engagement or sufficient
appropriate audit evidence.
15 SLAuS 220, paragraphs 18.
16 SLAuS 230, paragraphs 8.

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
48A
Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence and Audit Risk (Ref: Para. 5 and 17)
Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence
A28. Audit evidence is necessary to support the auditor’s opinion and report. It is cumulative in nature and is primarily
obtained from audit procedures performed during the course of the audit. It may, however, also include information
obtained from other sources such as previous audits (provided the auditor has determined whether changes have
occurred since the previous audit that may affect its relevance to the current audit
17) or a firm’s quality control
procedures for client acceptance and continuance. In addition to other sources inside and outside the entity, the
entity’s accounting records are an important source of audit evidence. Also, information that may be used as audit
evidence may have been prepared by an expert employed or engaged by the entity. Audit evidence comprises both
information that supports and corroborates management’s assertions, and any information that contradicts such
assertions. In addition, in some cases, the absence of information (for example, management’s refusal to provide a
requested representation) is used by the auditor, and therefore, also constitutes audit evidence. Most of the auditor’s
work in forming the auditor’s opinion consists of obtaining and evaluating audit evidence.
A29. The sufficiency and appropriateness of audit evidence are interrelated. Sufficiency is the measure of the quantity of
audit evidence. The quantity of audit evidence needed is affected by the auditor’s assessment of the risks of
misstatement (the higher the assessed risks, the more audit evidence is likely to be required) and also by the quality
of such audit evidence (the higher the quality, the less may be required). Obtaining more audit evidence, however,
may not compensate for its poor quality.
A30. Appropriateness is the measure of the quality of audit evidence; that is, its relevance and its reliability in providing
support for the conclusions on which the auditor’s opinion is based. The reliability of evidence is influenced by its
source and by its nature, and is dependent on the individual circumstances under which it is obtained.
A31. Whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level, and
thereby enable the auditor to draw reasonable conclusions on which to base the auditor’s opinion, is a matter of
professional judgment. SLAuS 500 and other relevant SLAuSs establish additional requirements and provide further
guidance applicable throughout the audit regarding the auditor’s considerations in obtaining sufficient appropriate
audit evidence.
Audit Risk
A32. Audit risk is a function of the risks of material misstatement and detection risk. The assessment of risks is based on
audit procedures to obtain information necessary for that purpose and evidence obtained throughout the audit. The
assessment of risks is a matter of professional judgment, rather than a matter capable of precise measurement.
AUDITING
A33. For purposes of the SLAuSs, audit risk does not include the risk that the auditor might express an opinion that the
financial statements are materially misstated when they are not. This risk is ordinarily insignificant. Further, audit risk
is a technical term related to the process of auditing; it does not refer to the auditor’s business risks such as loss from
litigation, adverse publicity, or other events arising in connection with the audit of financial statements.
Risks of Material Misstatement
A34. The risks of material misstatement may exist at two levels:
*  The overall financial statement level; and
*  The assertion level for classes of transactions, account balances, and disclosures.
17 SLAuS 315, "Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its
Environment,", paragraphs 9.

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
49A
A35. Risks of material misstatement at the overall financial statement level refer to risks of material misstatement that relate
pervasively to the financial statements as a whole and potentially affect many assertions.
A36. Risks of material misstatement at the assertion level are assessed in order to determine the nature, timing, and extent
of further audit procedures necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. This evidence enables the
auditor to express an opinion on the financial statements at an acceptably low level of audit risk. Auditors use various
approaches to accomplish the objective of assessing the risks of material misstatement. For example, the auditor may
make use of a model that expresses the general relationship of the components of audit risk in mathematical terms to
arrive at an acceptable level of detection risk. Some auditors find such a model to be useful when planning audit
procedures.
A37. The risks of material misstatement at the assertion level consist of two components: inherent risk and control risk.
Inherent risk and control risk are the entity’s risks; they exist independently of the audit of the financial statements.
A38. Inherent risk is higher for some assertions and related classes of transactions, account balances, and disclosures
than for others. For example, it may be higher for complex calculations or for accounts consisting of amounts derived
from accounting estimates that are subject to significant estimation uncertainty. External circumstances giving rise to
business risks may also influence inherent risk. For example, technological developments might make a particular
product obsolete, thereby causing inventory to be more susceptible to overstatement. Factors in the entity and its
environment that relate to several or all of the classes of transactions, account balances, or disclosures may also
influence the inherent risk related to a specific assertion. Such factors may include, for example, a lack of sufficient
working capital to continue operations or a declining industry characterized by a large number of business failures.
A39. Control risk is a function of the effectiveness of the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control by
management to address identified risks that threaten the achievement of the entity’s objectives relevant to preparation
of the entity’s financial statements. However, internal control, no matter how well designed and operated, can only
reduce, but not eliminate, risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, because of the inherent limitations
of internal control. These include, for example, the possibility of human errors or mistakes, or of controls being
circumvented by collusion or inappropriate management override. Accordingly, some control risk will always exist.
The SLAuSs provide the conditions under which the auditor is required to, or may choose to, test the operating
effectiveness of controls in determining the nature, timing and extent of substantive procedures to be performed.
18
A40. The SLAuSs do not ordinarily refer to inherent risk and control risk separately, but rather to a combined assessment
of the “risks of material misstatement.” However, the auditor may make separate or combined assessments of inherent
and control risk depending on preferred audit techniques or methodologies and practical considerations. The
assessment of the risks of material misstatement may be expressed in quantitative terms, such as in percentages, or in
non-quantitative terms. In any case, the need for the auditor to make appropriate risk assessments is more important
than the different approaches by which they may be made.
A41. SLAuS 315 establishes requirements and provides guidance on identifying and assessing the risks of material
misstatement at the financial statement and assertion levels.
Detection Risk
A42. For a given level of audit risk, the acceptable level of detection risk bears an inverse relationship to the assessed risks
of material misstatement at the assertion level. For example, the greater the risks of material misstatement the auditor
believes exists, the less the detection risk that can be accepted and, accordingly, the more persuasive the audit
evidence required by the auditor.
18 SLAuS 330, "The Auditor's Reponses to Assessed Risks," paragraphs 7-17.

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
50A
A43. Det ection risk relates to the nature, timing, and extent of the auditor’s procedures that are determined by the auditor
to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level. It is therefore a function of the effectiveness of an audit procedure and
of its application by the auditor. Matters such as:
*  adequate planning;
*  proper assignment of personnel to the engagement team;
*  the application of professional scepticism; and
*  supervision and review of the audit work performed,
assist to enhance the effectiveness of an audit procedure and of its application and reduce the possibility that an
auditor might select an inappropriate audit procedure, misapply an appropriate audit procedure, or misinterpret the
audit results.
A44. SLAuS 300
19 and SLAuS 330 establish requirements and provide guidance on planning an audit of financial statements
and the auditor’s responses to assessed risks. Detection risk, however, can only be reduced, not eliminated, because
of the inherent limitations of an audit. Accordingly, some detection risk will always exist.
Inherent Limitations of an Audit
A45. The auditor is not expected to, and cannot, reduce audit risk to zero and cannot therefore obtain absolute assurance
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement due to fraud or error. This is because there are
inherent limitations of an audit, which result in most of the audit evidence on which the auditor draws conclusions
and bases the auditor’s opinion being persuasive rather than conclusive. The inherent limitations of an audit arise
from:
*  The nature of financial reporting;
*  The nature of audit procedures; and
*  The need for the audit to be conducted within a reasonable period of time and at a reasonable cost.
The Nature of Financial Reporting
A46. The preparation of financial statements involves judgment by management in applying the requirements of the
entity’s applicable financial reporting framework to the facts and circumstances of the entity. In addition, many
financial statement items involve subjective decisions or assessments or a degree of uncertainty, and there may be a
range of acceptable interpretations or judgments that may be made. Consequently, some financial statement items are
subject to an inherent level of variability which cannot be eliminated by the application of additional auditing
procedures. For example, this is often the case with respect to certain accounting estimates. Nevertheless, the
SLAuSs require the auditor to give specific consideration to whether accounting estimates are reasonable in the
context of the applicable financial reporting framework and related disclosures, and to the qualitative aspects of the
entity’s accounting practices, including indicators of possible bias in management’s judgments.
20
The Nature of Audit Procedures
A47. There are practical and legal limitations on the auditor’s ability to obtain audit evidence. For example:
19 SLAuS 300, "Planning an Audit of Financial Statement".
20 SLAuS 540, "Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures," and SLAuS
700", "Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements," paragraph 12.

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
51A
* There is the possibility that management or others may not provide, intentionally or unintentionally, the
complete information that is relevant to the preparation of the financial statements or that has been requested
by the auditor. Accordingly, the auditor cannot be certain of the completeness of information, even though the
auditor has performed audit procedures to obtain assurance that all relevant information has been obtained.
* Fraud may involve sophisticated and carefully organized schemes designed to conceal it. Therefore, audit
procedures used to gather audit evidence may be ineffective for detecting an intentional misstatement that
involves, for example, collusion to falsify documentation which may cause the auditor to believe that audit
evidence is valid when it is not. The auditor is neither trained as nor expected to be an expert in the authentication
of documents.
* An audit is not an official investigation into alleged wrongdoing. Accordingly, the auditor is not given specific
legal powers, such as the power of search, which may be necessary for such an investigation.
Timeliness of Financial Reporting and the Balance between Benefit and Cost
A48. The matter of difficulty, time, or cost involved is not in itself a valid basis for the auditor to omit an audit procedure for
which there is no alternative or to be satisfied with audit evidence that is less than persuasive. Appropriate planning
assists in making sufficient time and resources available for the conduct of the audit. Notwithstanding this, the
relevance of information, and thereby its value, tends to diminish over time, and there is a balance to be struck
between the reliability of information and its cost. This is recognized in certain financial reporting frameworks (see, for
example, the ICASL’s “Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements”). Therefore, there is
an expectation by users of financial statements that the auditor will form an opinion on the financial statements within
a reasonable period of time and at a reasonable cost, recognizing that it is impracticable to address all information that
may exist or to pursue every matter exhaustively on the assumption that information is in error or fraudulent until
proved otherwise.
A49. Consequently, it is necessary for the auditor to:
* Plan the audit so that it will be performed in an effective manner;
·AUDITING
* Direct audit effort to areas most expected to contain risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
with correspondingly less effort directed at other areas; and
* Use testing and other means of examining populations for misstatements.
A50. In light of the approaches described in paragraph A49, the SLAuSs contain requirements for the planning and
performance of the audit and require the auditor, among other things, to:
*  Have a basis for the identification and assessment of risks of material misstatement at the financial statement
and assertion levels by performing risk assessment procedures and related activities;
21 and
*  Use testing and other means of examining populations in a manner that provides a reasonable basis for the
auditor to draw conclusions about the population. 22
Other Matters that Affect the Inherent Limitations of an Audit
A51. In the case of certain assertions or subject matters, the potential effects of the inherent limitations on the auditor’s
ability to detect material misstatements are particularly significant. Such assertions or subject matters include:
21 SLAuS 315, paragraph 5 - 10.
22 SLAuS 330 ; SLAuS 500 ; SLAuS 520, "Analytical Procedures", SLAuS 530, "Audit Sampling."

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
52A
*  Fraud, particularly fraud involving senior management or collusion. See SLAuS 240 for further discussion.
*  The existence and completeness of related party relationships and transactions. See SLAuS 550 23 for further
discussion.
* The occurrence of non-compliance with laws and regulations. See SLAuS 250 24 for further discussion.
* Future events or conditions that may cause an entity to cease to continue as a going concern. See SLAuS 57025
for further discussion.
Relevant SLAuSs identify specific audit procedures to assist in mitigating the effect of the inherent limitations.
A52. Because of the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that some material misstatements of the
financial statements may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance
with SLAuSs. Accordingly, the subsequent discovery of a material misstatement of the financial statements resulting
from fraud or error does not by itself indicate a failure to conduct an audit in accordance with SLAuSs. However, the
inherent limitations of an audit are not a justification for the auditor to be satisfied with less-than-persuasive audit
evidence. Whether the auditor has performed an audit in accordance with SLAuSs is determined by the audit
procedures performed in the circumstances, the sufficiency and appropriateness of the audit evidence obtained as a
result thereof and the suitability of the auditor’s report based on an evaluation of that evidence in light of the overall
objectives of the auditor.
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with SLAuSs
Nature of the SLAuSs (Ref: Para. 18)
A53. The SLAuSs, taken together, provide the standards for the auditor’s work in fulfilling the overall objectives of the
auditor. The SLAuSs deal with the general responsibilities of the auditor, as well as the auditor’s further considerations
relevant to the application of those responsibilities to specific topics.
A54. The scope, effective date and any specific limitation of the applicability of a specific SLAuS is made clear in the
SLAuS. Unless otherwise stated in the SLAuS, the auditor is permitted to apply a SLAuS before the effective date
specified therein.
A55. In performing an audit, the auditor may be required to comply with legal or regulatory requirements in addition to the
SLAuSs. The SLAuSs do not override law or regulation that governs an audit of financial statements. In the event
that such law or regulation differs from the SLAuSs, an audit conducted only in accordance with law or regulation will
not automatically comply with SLAuSs.
A56. The auditor may also conduct the audit in accordance with both SLAuSs and auditing standards of a specific
jurisdiction or country. In such cases, in addition to complying with each of the SLAuSs relevant to the audit, it may
be necessary for the auditor to perform additional audit procedures in order to comply with the relevant standards of
that jurisdiction or country.
Considerations Specific to Audits in the Public Sector
A57. The SLAuSs are relevant to engagements in the public sector. The public sector auditor’s responsibilities, however,
may be affected by the audit mandate, or by obligations on public sector entities arising from law, regulation or other
authority (such as ministerial directives, government policy requirements, or resolutions of the legislature), which
may encompass a broader scope than an audit of financial statements in accordance with the SLAuSs. These
additional responsibilities are not dealt with in the SLAuSs. They may be dealt with in the pronouncements of the
International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions, or in guidance developed by government audit agencies.
AUDITING
23 SLAuS 550, "Related Parties".
24 SLAuS 250, "Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements".
25 SLAuS 570, "Going Concern".

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
53A
Contents of the SLAuSs (Ref: Para. 19)
A58. In addition to objectives and requirements (requirements are expressed in the SLAuSs using “shall”), a SLAuS
contains related guidance in the form of application and other explanatory material. It may also contain introductory
material that provides context relevant to a proper understanding of the SLAuS, and definitions. The entire text of a
SLAuS, therefore, is relevant to an understanding of the objectives stated in a SLAuS and the proper application of
the requirements of a SLAuS.
A59. Where necessary, the application and other explanatory material provides further explanation of the requirements of
a SLAuS and guidance for carrying them out. In particular, it may:
*  Explain more precisely what a requirement means or is intended to cover.
*  Include examples of procedures that may be appropriate in the circumstances.
While such guidance does not in itself impose a requirement, it is relevant to the proper application of the requirements
of a SLAuS. The application and other explanatory material may also provide background information on matters
addressed in a SLAuS.
A60. Appendices form part of the application and other explanatory material. The purpose and intended use of an appendix
are explained in the body of the related SLAuS or within the title and introduction of the appendix itself.
A61. Introductory material may include, as needed, such matters as explanation of:
* The purpose and scope of the SLAuS, including how the SLAuS relates to other SLAuSs.
*  The subject matter of the SLAuS.
*  The respective responsibilities of the auditor and others in relation to the subject matter of the SLAuS.
*  The context in which the SLAuS is set.
A62. A SLAuS may include, in a separate section under the heading “Definitions,” a description of the meanings attributed
to certain terms for purposes of the SLAuSs. These are provided to assist in the consistent application and
interpretation of the SLAuSs, and are not intended to override definitions that may be established for other purposes,
whether in law, regulation or otherwise. Unless otherwise indicated, those terms will carry the same meanings throughout
the SLAuSs. The Glossary of Terms relating to Sri Lanka Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of Sri Lanka in the Sri Lanka Auditing Standards and Sri Lanka Standard on Quality Control 1 published by ICASL
contains a complete listing of terms defined in the SLAuSs. It also includes descriptions of other terms found in
SLAuSs to assist in common and consistent interpretation and translation.
A63. When appropriate, additional considerations specific to audits of smaller entities and public sector entities are
included within the application and other explanatory material of a SLAuS. These additional considerations assist in
the application of the requirements of the SLAuS in the audit of such entities. They do not, however, limit or reduce
the responsibility of the auditor to apply and comply with the requirements of the SLAuSs.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A64. For purposes of specifying additional considerations to audits of smaller entities, a “smaller entity” refers to an entity
which typically possesses qualitative characteristics such as:
(a) Concentration of ownership and management in a small number of individuals (often a single individual – either
a natural person or another enterprise that owns the entity provided the owner exhibits the relevant qualitative
characteristics) ; and

<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
54A
(b) One or more of the following:
(i)  Straightforward or uncomplicated transactions;
(ii) Simple record-keeping;
(iii) Few lines of business and few products within business lines;
(iv) Few internal controls;
(v) Few levels of management with responsibility for a broad range of controls; or
(vi) Few personnel, many having a wide range of duties.
These qualitative characteristics are not exhaustive, they are not exclusive to smaller entities, and smaller entities do
not necessarily display all of these characteristics.
A65. The considerations specific to smaller entities included in the SLAuSs have been developed primarily with unlisted
entities in mind. Some of the considerations, however, may be helpful in audits of smaller listed entities.
A66. The S LAuSs refer to the proprietor of a smaller entity who is involved in running the entity on a day-to-day basis as
the “owner-manager.”
Objectives Stated in Individual SLAuSs (Ref: Para. 21)
A67. Each SLAuS contains one or more objectives which provide a link between the requirements and the overall objectives
of the auditor. The objectives in individual SLAuSs serve to focus the auditor on the desired outcome of the SLAuS,
while being specific enough to assist the auditor in:
* Understanding what needs to be accomplished and, where necessary, the appropriate means of doing so; and
* Deciding whether more needs to be done to achieve them in the particular circumstances of the audit.
A68. Objectives are to be understood in the context of the overall objectives of the auditor stated in paragraph 11 of this
SLAuS. As with the overall objectives of the auditor, the ability to achieve an individual objective is equally subject
to the inherent limitations of an audit.
A69. In using the objectives, the auditor is required to have regard to the interrelationships among the SLAuSs. This is
because, as indicated in paragraph A53, the SLAuSs deal in some cases with general responsibilities and in others
with the application of those responsibilities to specific topics. For example, this SLAuS requires the auditor to adopt
an attitude of professional skepticism; this is necessary in all aspects of planning and performing an audit but is not
repeated as a requirement of each SLAuS. At a more detailed level, SLAuS 315 and SLAuS 330 contain, among other
things, objectives and requirements that deal with the auditor’s responsibilities to identify and assess the risks of
material misstatement and to design and perform further audit procedures to respond to those assessed risks,
respectively; these objectives and requirements apply throughout the audit. A SLAuS dealing with specific aspects
of the audit (for example, SLAuS 540) may expand on how the objectives and requirements of such SLAuSs as SLAuS
315 and SLAuS 330 are to be applied in relation to the subject of the SLAuS but does not repeat them. Thus, in
achieving the objective stated in SLAuS 540, the auditor has regard to the objectives and requirements of other
relevant SLAuSs.
Use of Objectives to Determine Need for Additional Audit Procedures (Ref: Para. 21(a))
A70. The requirements of the SLAuSs are designed to enable the auditor to achieve the objectives specified in the
SLAuSs, and thereby the overall objectives of the auditor. The proper application of the requirements of the SLAuSs
by the auditor is therefore expected to provide a sufficient basis for the auditor’s achievement of the objectives.
However, because the circumstances of audit engagements vary widely and all such circumstances cannot be

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
55A
anticipated in the SLAuSs, the auditor is responsible for determining the audit procedures necessary to fulfill the
requirements of the SLAuSs and to achieve the objectives. In the circumstances of an engagement, there may be
particular matters that require the auditor to perform audit procedures in addition to those required by the SLAuSs to
meet the objectives specified in the SLAuSs.
Use of Objectives to Evaluate Whether Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence Has Been Obtained (Ref: Para. 21(b))
A71. The auditor is required to use the objectives to evaluate whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been
obtained in the context of the overall objectives of the auditor. If as a result the auditor concludes that the audit
evidence is not sufficient and appropriate, then the auditor may follow one or more of the following approaches to
meeting the requirement of paragraph 21(b):
* Evaluate whether further relevant audit evidence has been, or will be, obtained as a result of complying with
other SLAuSs;
*  Extend the work performed in applying one or more requirements; or
*  Perform other procedures judged by the auditor to be necessary in the circumstances.
Where none of the above is expected to be practical or possible in the circumstances, the auditor will not be able to
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence and is required by the SLAuSs to determine the effect on the auditor’s
report or on the auditor’s ability to complete the engagement.
Complying with Relevant Requirements
Relevant Requirements (Ref: Para. 22)
A72. In some cases, a SLAuS (and therefore all of its requirements) may not be relevant in the circumstances. For example,
if an entity does not have an internal audit function, nothing in SLAuS 610
26 is relevant.
A73. Within a relevant SLAuS, there may be conditional requirements. Such a requirement is relevant when the circumstances
envisioned in the requirement apply and the condition exists. In general, the conditionality of a requirement will either
be explicit or implicit, for example:
* The requirement to modify the auditor’s opinion if there is a limitation of scope27 represents an explicit conditional
requirement.
* The requirement to communicate significant deficiencies in internal control identified during the audit to those
charged with governance,28 which depends on the existence of such identified significant deficiencies; and the
requirement to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the presentation and disclosure of segment
information in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework,29 which depends on that framework
requiring or permitting such disclosure, represent implicit conditional requirements.
26 SLAuS 610, "Using the Work of Internal Auditors".
27 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report,” paragraph 13.
28 SLAuS 265, “Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and Management,” paragraph 9.

<!-- page 56 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
56A
In some cases, a requirement may be expressed as being conditional on applicable law or regulation. For example, the
auditor may be required to withdraw from the audit engagement, where withdrawal is possible under applicable law
or regulation, or the auditor may be required to do something, unless prohibited by law or regulation . Depending
on the jurisdiction, the legal or regulatory permission or prohibition may be explicit or implicit.
Departure from a Requirement (Ref: Para. 23)
A74. SLAuS 230 establishes documentation requirements in those exceptional circumstances where the auditor departs
from a relevant requirement.30 The SLAuSs do not call for compliance with a requirement that is not relevant in the
circumstances of the audit.
Failure to Achieve an Objective (Ref: Para. 24)
A75. Whether an objective has been achieved is a matter for the auditor’s professional judgment. That judgment takes
account of the results of audit procedures performed in complying with the requirements of the SLAuSs, and the
auditor’s evaluation of whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained and whether more needs to
be done in the particular circumstances of the audit to achieve the objectives stated in the SLAuSs. Accordingly,
circumstances that may give rise to a failure to achieve an objective include those that:
* Prevent the auditor from complying with the relevant requirements of a SLAuS.
* Result in its not being practicable or possible for the auditor to carry out the additional audit procedures or
obtain further audit evidence as determined necessary from the use of the objectives in accordance with
paragraph 21, for example due to a limitation in the available audit evidence.
A76. Audit documentation that meets the requirements of SLAuS 230 and the specific documentation requirements of
other relevant SLAuSs provides evidence of the auditor’s basis for a conclusion about the achievement of the overall
objectives of the auditor. While it is unnecessary for the auditor to document separately (as in a checklist, for
example) that individual objectives have been achieved, the documentation of a failure to achieve an objective assists
the auditor’s evaluation of whether such a failure has prevented the auditor from achieving the overall objectives of
the auditor.
29 SLAuS 501, "Audit Evidence — Specific Consideration for Selected Items," paragraph 13.
30 SLAuS 230, paragraph 12.

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
57A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  210
AGREEING THE TERMS OF AUDIT ENGAGEMENTS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS .. ......................................................................... 1
Effective Date  ...................................................................................... 2
Objective ............................................................................................. 3
Definitions ........................................................................................... 4-5
Requirements
Preconditions for an Audit ................................................................... 6-8
Agreement on Audit Engagement Terms ............................................. 9-12
Recurring Audits .................................................................................. 13
Acceptance of a Change in the Terms of the Audit Engagement …..... 14-17
Additional Considerations in Engagement Acceptance ...................... 18-21
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................ A1
Preconditions for an Audit ................................................................... A2-A20
Agreement on Audit Engagement Terms ............................................ A21-A27
Recurring Audits ................................................................................. A28
Acceptance of a Change in the Terms of the Audit Engagement ........ A29-A33
Additional Considerations in Engagement Acceptance ....................... A34-A37
Appendix 1: Example of an Audit Engagement Letter
Appendix 2: Determining the Acceptability of General Purpose Frameworks
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements” should
be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200 “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and
the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”

<!-- page 58 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
58A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities in agreeing the terms of the audit
engagement with management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance. This includes establishing
that certain preconditions for an audit, responsibility for which rests with management and, where appropriate, those
charged with governance, are present. SLAuS 220
1 deals with those aspects of engagement acceptance that are
within the control of the auditor. (Ref: Para. A1)
Effective Date
2. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 12 January 2014.
Objective
3. The objective of the auditor is to accept or continue an audit engagement only when the basis upon which it is to
be performed has been agreed, through:
(a) Establishing whether the preconditions for an audit are present; and
(b) Confirming that there is a common understanding between the auditor and management and, where appropriate,
those charged with governance of the terms of the audit engagement.
Definitions
4. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following term has the meaning attributed below:
Preconditions for an audit – The use by management of an acceptable financial reporting framework in the preparation
of the financial statements and the agreement of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance
to the premise
2 on which an audit is conducted.
5. For the purposes of this SLAuS, references to “management” should be read hereafter as “management and, where
appropriate, those charged with governance.”
Requirements
Preconditions for an Audit
6. In order to establish whether the preconditions for an audit are present, the auditor shall:
(a) Determine whether the financial reporting framework to be applied in the preparation of the financial statements
is acceptable; and (Ref: Para. A2-A10)
(b) Obtain the agreement of management that it acknowledges and understands its responsibility: (Ref: Para. A11-
A14, A20)
(i) For the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework, including where relevant their fair presentation; (Ref: Para. A15)
1 SLAuS 220, “Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements.”
2 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph 13.

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
59A
(ii) For such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and (Ref: Para.
A16-A19)
(iii) To provide the auditor with:
a. Access to all information of which management is aware that is relevant to the preparation of the
financial statements such as records, documentation and other matters;
b. Additional information that the auditor may request from management for the purpose of the audit;
and
c. Unrestricted access to persons within the entity from whom the auditor determines it necessary to
obtain audit evidence.
Limitation on Scope Prior to Audit Engagement Acceptance
7. If management or those charged with governance impose a limitation on the scope of the auditor’s work in the terms
of a proposed audit engagement such that the auditor believes the limitation will result in the auditor disclaiming an
opinion on the financial statements, the auditor shall not accept such a limited engagement as an audit engagement,
unless required by law or regulation to do so.
Other Factors Affecting Audit Engagement Acceptance
8. If the preconditions for an audit are not present, the auditor shall discuss the matter with management. Unless
required by law or regulation to do so, the auditor shall not accept the proposed audit engagement:
(a) If the auditor has determined that the financial reporting framework to be applied in the preparation of the
financial statements is unacceptable, except as provided in paragraph 19; or
(b) If the agreement referred to in paragraph 6(b) has not been obtained.
Agreement on Audit Engagement Terms
9. The auditor shall agree the terms of the audit engagement with management or those charged with governance, as
appropriate. (Ref: Para. A21)
10. Subject to paragraph 11, the agreed terms of the audit engagement shall be recorded in an audit engagement letter or
other suitable form of written agreement and shall include: (Ref: Para. A22-A25)
(a) The objective and scope of the audit of the financial statements;
(b) The responsibilities of the auditor;
(c) The responsibilities of management;
(d) Identification of the applicable financial reporting framework for the preparation of the financial statements;
and
(e) Reference to the expected form and content of any reports to be issued by the auditor and a statement that there
may be circumstances in which a report may differ from its expected form and content.
11. If law or regulation prescribes in sufficient detail the terms of the audit engagement referred to in paragraph 10, the
auditor need not record them in a written agreement, except for the fact that such law or regulation applies and that
management acknowledges and understands its responsibilities as set out in paragraph 6(b). (Ref: Para. A22, A26-A27)

<!-- page 60 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
60A
12. If law or regulation prescribes responsibilities of management similar to those described in paragraph 6(b), the auditor
may determine that the law or regulation includes responsibilities that, in the auditor’s judgment, are  equivalent in
effect to those set out in that paragraph. For such responsibilities that are equivalent, the auditor may use the
wording of the law or regulation to describe them in the written agreement. For those responsibilities that are not
prescribed by law or regulation such that their effect is equivalent, the written agreement shall use the description in
paragraph 6(b). (Ref: Para. A26)
Recurring Audits
13. On recurring audits, the auditor shall assess whether circumstances require the terms of the audit engagement to be
revised and whether there is a need to remind the entity of the existing terms of the audit engagement. (Ref: Para. A28)
Acceptance of a Change in the Terms of the Audit Engagement
14. The auditor shall not agree to a change in the terms of the audit engagement where there is no reasonable justification
for doing so. (Ref: Para. A29-A31)
15. If, prior to completing the audit engagement, the auditor is requested to change the audit engagement to an engagement
that conveys a lower level of assurance, the auditor shall determine whether there is reasonable justification for doing
so. (Ref: Para. A32-A33)
16. If the terms of the audit engagement are changed, the auditor and management shall agree on and record the new
terms of the engagement in an engagement letter or other suitable form of written agreement.
17. If the auditor is unable to agree to a change of the terms of the audit engagement and is not permitted by management
to continue the original audit engagement, the auditor shall:
(a) Withdraw from the audit engagement where possible under applicable law or regulation; and
(b) Determine whether there is any obligation, either contractual or otherwise, to report the circumstances to other
parties, such as those charged with governance, owners or regulators.
Additional Considerations in Engagement Acceptance
Financial Reporting Standards Supplemented by Law or Regulation
18. If financial reporting standards established by an authorized or recognized standards setting organization are
supplemented by law or regulation, the auditor shall determine whether there are any conflicts between the financial
reporting standards and the additional requirements. If such conflicts exist, the auditor shall discuss with management
the nature of the additional requirements and shall agree whether:
(a) The additional requirements can be met through additional disclosures in the financial statements; or
(b) The description of the applicable financial reporting framework in the financial statements can be amended
accordingly.
If neither of the above actions is possible, the auditor shall determine whether it will be necessary to modify the
auditor’s opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705.
3 (Ref: Para. A34)
3 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
61A
Financial Reporting Framework Prescribed by Law or Regulation—Other Matters Affecting Acceptance
19. If the auditor has determined that the financial reporting framework prescribed by law or regulation would be
unacceptable but for the fact that it is prescribed by law or regulation, the auditor shall accept the audit engagement
only if the following conditions are present: (Ref: Para. A35)
(a) Management agrees to provide additional disclosures in the financial statements required to avoid the financial
statements being misleading; and
DITING
(b) It is recognized in the terms of the audit engagement that:
(i) The auditor’s report on the financial statements will incorporate an Emphasis of Matter paragraph,
drawing users’ attention to the additional disclosures, in accordance with SLAuS 706;4 and
(ii) Unless the auditor is required by law or regulation to express the auditor’s opinion on the financial
statements by using the phrases “present fairly, in all material respects,” or “give a true and fair view” in
accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework, the auditor’s opinion on the financial
statements will not include such phrases.
20. If the conditions outlined in paragraph 19 are not present and the auditor is required by law or regulation to undertake
the audit engagement, the auditor shall:
(a) Evaluate the effect of the misleading nature of the financial statements on the auditor’s report; and
(b) Include appropriate reference to this matter in the terms of the audit engagement.
Auditor’ s Report Prescribed by Law or Regulation
21. In some cases, law or regulation of the relevant jurisdiction prescribes the layout or wording of the auditor’s report in
a form or in terms that are significantly different from the requirements of SLAuSs. In these circumstances, the auditor
shall evaluate:
(a) Whether users might misunderstand the assurance obtained from the audit of the financial statements and, if
so,
(b) Whether additional explanation in the auditor’s report can mitigate possible misunderstanding. 5
If the auditor concludes that additional explanation in the auditor’s report cannot mitigate possible misunderstanding,
the auditor shall not accept the audit engagement, unless required by law or regulation to do so. An audit conducted
in accordance with such law or regulation does not comply with SLAuSs. Accordingly, the auditor shall not include
any reference within the auditor’s report to the audit having been conducted in accordance with SLAuSs.6 (Ref: Para.
A36-A37)
4 SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”
5 SLAuS 706.
6 See also SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements,” paragraph 43.

<!-- page 62 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
62A
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Scope of this SLAuS (Ref: Para. 1)
A1. Assurance engagements, which include audit engagements, may only be accepted when the practitioner considers
that relevant ethical requirements such as independence and professional competence will be satisfied, and when the
engagement exhibits certain characteristics.
7 The auditor’s responsibilities in respect of ethical requirements in the
context of the acceptance of an audit engagement and in so far as they are within the control of the auditor are dealt
with in SLAuS 220.
8 This SLAuS deals with those matters (or preconditions) that are within the control of the entity
and upon which it is necessary for the auditor and the entity’s management to agree.
Preconditions for an Audit
The Financial Reporting Framework (Ref: Para. 6(a))
A2. A condition for acceptance of an assurance engagement is that the criteria referred to in the definition of an assurance
engagement are suitable and available to intended users.
9 Criteria are the benchmarks used to evaluate or measure the
subject matter including, where relevant, benchmarks for presentation and disclosure. Suitable criteria enable
reasonably consistent evaluation or measurement of a subject matter within the context of professional judgment. For
purposes of the SLAuSs, the applicable financial reporting framework provides the criteria the auditor uses to audit
the financial statements, including where relevant their fair presentation.
A3. Without an acceptable financial reporting framework, management does not have an appropriate basis for the
preparation of the financial statements and the auditor does not have suitable criteria for auditing the financial
statements. In many cases the auditor may presume that the applicable financial reporting framework is acceptable, as
described in paragraphs A8-A9.
Determining the Acceptability of the Financial Reporting Framework
A4. Factors that are relevant to the auditor’s determination of the acceptability of the financial reporting framework to be
applied in the preparation of the financial statements include:
* The nature of the entity (for example, whether it is a business enterprise, a public sector entity or a not for profit
organization);
—DITING
* The purpose of the financial statements (for example, whether they are prepared to meet the common financial
information needs of a wide range of users or the financial information needs of specific users);
* The nature of the financial statements (for example, whether the financial statements are a complete set of
financial statements or a single financial statement); and
* Whether law or regulation prescribes the applicable financial reporting framework.
A5. Many users of financial statements are not in a position to demand financial statements tailored to meet their specific
information needs. While all the information needs of specific users cannot be met, there are financial information
needs that are common to a wide range of users. Financial statements prepared in accordance with a financial
reporting framework designed to meet the common financial information needs of a wide range of users are referred to
as general purpose financial statements.
7 “Sri Lanka Framework for Assurance Engagements,” paragraph 17.
8 SLAuS 220, paragraphs 9-11.
9 “Sri Lanka Framework for Assurance Engagements,” paragraph 17(b)(ii).

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
63A
A6. In some cases, the financial statements will be prepared in accordance with a financial reporting framework designed
to meet the financial information needs of specific users. Such financial statements are referred to as special purpose
financial statements. The financial information needs of the intended users will determine the applicable financial
reporting framework in these circumstances. SLAuS 800 discusses the acceptability of financial reporting frameworks
designed to meet the financial information needs of specific users.
10
A7. Deficiencies in the applicable financial reporting framework that indicate that the framework is not acceptable may be
encountered after the audit engagement has been accepted. When use of that framework is prescribed by law or
regulation, the requirements of paragraphs 19-20 apply. When use of that framework is not prescribed by law or
regulation, management may decide to adopt another framework that is acceptable. When management does so, as
required by paragraph 16, new terms of the audit engagement are agreed to reflect the change in the framework as the
previously agreed terms will no longer be accurate.
General purpose frameworks
A8. At present, there is no objective and authoritative basis that has been generally recognized globally for judging the
acceptability of general purpose frameworks. In the absence of such a basis, financial reporting standards established
by organizations that are authorized or recognized to promulgate standards to be used by certain types of entities are
presumed to be acceptable for general purpose financial statements prepared by such entities, provided the
organizations follow an established and transparent process involving deliberation and consideration of the views of
a wide range of stakeholders. Examples of such financial reporting standards include:
* Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs) promulgated by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka;
* Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standards (SLPSASs) promulgated by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka; and
* Accounting principles promulgated by an authorized or recognized standards setting organization in a particular
jurisdiction, provided the organization follows an established and transparent process involving deliberation
and consideration of the views of a wide range of stakeholders.
These financial reporting standards are often identified as the applicable financial reporting framework in law or
regulation governing the preparation of general purpose financial statements.
Financial reporting frameworks prescribed by law or regulation
A9. In accordance with paragraph 6(a), the auditor is required to determine whether the financial reporting framework, to
be applied in the preparation of the financial statements, is acceptable. In some jurisdictions, law or regulation may
prescribe the financial reporting framework to be used in the preparation of general purpose financial statements for
certain types of entities. In the absence of indications to the contrary, such a financial reporting framework is
presumed to be acceptable for general purpose financial statements prepared by such entities. In the event that the
framework is not considered to be acceptable, paragraphs 19-20 apply.
Jurisdictions that do not have standards setting organizations or prescribed financial reporting frameworks
A10. When an entity is registered or operating in a jurisdiction that does not have an authorized or recognized standards
setting organization, or where use of the financial reporting framework is not prescribed by law or regulation,
management identifies a financial reporting framework to be applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
Appendix 2 contains guidance on determining the acceptability of financial reporting frameworks in such circumstances.
10 SLAuS 800, “Special Considerations—Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks,”
paragraph 8.

<!-- page 64 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
64A
Agreement of the Responsibilities of Management (Ref: Para. 6(b))
A11. An audit in accordance with SLAuSs is conducted on the premise that management has acknowledged and understands
that it has the responsibilities set out in paragraph 6(b). 11 In certain jurisdictions, such responsibilities may be
specified in law or regulation. In others, there may be little or no legal or regulatory definition of such responsibilities.
SLAuSs do not override law or regulation in such matters. However, the concept of an independent audit requires that
the auditor’s role does not involve taking responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements or for the
entity’s related internal control, and that the auditor has a reasonable expectation of obtaining the information
necessary for the audit in so far as management is able to provide or procure it. Accordingly, the premise is fundamental
to the conduct of an independent audit. To avoid misunderstanding, agreement is reached with management that it
acknowledges and understands that it has such responsibilities as part of agreeing and recording the terms of the
audit engagement in paragraphs 9-12.
A12. The way in which the responsibilities for financial reporting are divided between management and those charged with
governance will vary according to the resources and structure of the entity and any relevant law or regulation, and
the respective roles of management and those charged with governance within the entity. In most cases, management
is responsible for execution while those charged with governance have oversight of management. In some cases,
those charged with governance will have, or will assume, responsibility for approving the financial statements or
monitoring the entity’s internal control related to financial reporting. In larger or public entities, a subgroup of those
charged with governance, such as an audit committee, may be charged with certain oversight responsibilities.
A13. SLAuS 580 requires the auditor to request management to provide written representations that it has fulfilled certain
of its responsibilities.
12 It may therefore be appropriate to make management aware that receipt of such written
representations will be expected, together with written representations required by other SLAuSs and, where necessary,
written representations to support other audit evidence relevant to the financial statements or one or more specific
assertions in the financial statements.
A14. Where management will not acknowledge its responsibilities, or agree to provide the written representations, the
auditor will be unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
13 In such circumstances, it would not be
appropriate for the auditor to accept the audit engagement, unless law or regulation requires the auditor to do so. In
cases where the auditor is required to accept the audit engagement, the auditor may need to explain to management
the importance of these matters, and the implications for the auditor’s report.
Preparation of the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 6(b)(i))
A15. Most financial reporting frameworks include requirements relating to the presentation of the financial statements; for
such frameworks, preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial reporting framework
includes presentation. In the case of a fair presentation framework the importance of the reporting objective of fair
presentation is such that the premise agreed with management includes specific reference to fair presentation, or to
the responsibility to ensure that the financial statements will “give a true and fair view” in accordance with the
financial reporting framework.
Internal Control (Ref: Para. 6(b)(ii))
A16. Management maintains such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Internal control, no matter how
effective, can provide an entity with only reasonable assurance about achieving the entity’s financial reporting
objectives due to the inherent limitations of internal control.
14
11 SLAuS 200, paragraph A2.
12 SLAuS 580, “Written Representations,” paragraphs 10-11.
13 SLAuS 580, paragraph A26.
14 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment,”
paragraph A46.

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
65A
A17. An independent audit conducted in accordance with the SLAuSs does not act as a substitute for the maintenance of
internal control necessary for the preparation of financial statements by management. Accordingly, the auditor is
required to obtain the agreement of management that it acknowledges and understands its responsibility for internal
control. However, the agreement required by paragraph 6(b)(ii) does not imply that the auditor will find that internal
control maintained by management has achieved its purpose or will be free of deficiencies.
A18. It is for management to determine what internal control is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial
statements. The term “internal control” encompasses a wide range of activities within components that may be
described as the control environment; the entity’s risk assessment process; the information system, including the
related business processes relevant to financial reporting, and communication; control activities; and monitoring of
controls. This division, however, does not necessarily reflect how a particular entity may design, implement and
maintain its internal control, or how it may classify any particular component.
15 An entity’s internal control (in
particular, its accounting books and records, or accounting systems) will reflect the needs of management, the
complexity of the business, the nature of the risks to which the entity is subject, and relevant laws or regulation.
UDITING
A19. In some jurisdictions, law or regulation may refer to the responsibility of management for the adequacy of accounting
books and records, or accounting systems. In some cases, general practice may assume a distinction between
accounting books and records or accounting systems on the one hand, and internal control or controls on the other.
As accounting books and records, or accounting systems, are an integral part of internal control as referred to in
paragraph A18, no specific reference is made to them in paragraph 6(b)(ii) for the description of the responsibility of
management. To avoid misunderstanding, it may be appropriate for the auditor to explain to management the scope of
this responsibility.
Considerations Relevant to Smaller Entities (Ref: Para. 6(b))
A20. One of the purposes of agreeing the terms of the audit engagement is to avoid misunderstanding about the respective
responsibilities of management and the auditor. For example, when a third party has assisted with the preparation of
the financial statements, it may be useful to remind management that the preparation of the financial statements in
accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework remains its responsibility.
Agreement on Audit Engagement Terms
Agreeing the Terms of the Audit Engagement (Ref: Para. 9)
A21. The roles of management and those charged with governance in agreeing the terms of the audit engagement for the
entity depend on the governance structure of the entity and relevant law or regulation.
Audit Engagement Letter or Other Form of Written Agreement
16 (Ref: Para. 10-11)
A22. It is in the interests of both the entity and the auditor that the auditor sends an audit engagement letter before the
commencement of the audit to help avoid misunderstandings with respect to the audit. In some countries, however,
the objective and scope of an audit and the responsibilities of management and of the auditor may be sufficiently
established by law, that is, they prescribe the matters described in paragraph 10. Although in these circumstances
paragraph 11 permits the auditor to include in the engagement letter only reference to the fact that relevant law or
regulation applies and that management acknowledges and understands its responsibilities as set out in paragraph
6(b), the auditor may nevertheless consider it appropriate to include the matters described in paragraph 10 in an
engagement letter for the information of management.
15 SLAuS 315, paragraph A51 and Appendix 1.
16 In the paragraphs that follow, any reference to an audit engagement letter is to be taken as a reference to an audit engagement  letter
or other suitable form of written agreement.

<!-- page 66 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
66A
Form and Content of the Audit Engagement Letter
A23. The form and content of the audit engagement letter may vary for each entity. Information included in the audit
engagement letter on the auditor’s responsibilities may be based on SLAuS 200. 17 Paragraphs 6(b) and 12 of this
SLAuS deal with the description of the responsibilities of management. In addition to including the matters required
by paragraph 10, an audit engagement letter may make reference to, for example:
* Elaboration of the scope of the audit, including reference to applicable legislation, regulations, SLAuSs, and
ethical and other pronouncements of professional bodies to which the auditor adheres.
* The form of any other communication of results of the audit engagement.
* The fact that because of the inherent limitations of an audit, together with the inherent limitations of internal
control, there is an unavoidable risk that some material misstatements may not be detected, even though the
audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with SLAuSs.
* Arrangements regarding the planning and performance of the audit, including the composition of the audit
team.
* The expectation that management will provide written representations (see also paragraph A13).
* The agreement of management to make available to the auditor draft financial statements and any accompanying
other information in time to allow the auditor to complete the audit in accordance with the proposed timetable.
* The agreement of management to inform the auditor of facts that may affect the financial statements, of which
management may become aware during the period from the date of the auditor’s report to the date the financial
statements are issued.
* The basis on which fees are computed and any billing arrangements.
* A request for management to acknowledge receipt of the audit engagement letter and to agree to the terms of
the engagement outlined therein.
A24. When relevant, the following points could also be made in the audit engagement letter:
* Arrangements concerning the involvement of other auditors and experts in some aspects of the audit.
—UDITING
* Arrangements concerning the involvement of internal auditors and other staff of the entity.
* Arrangements to be made with the predecessor auditor, if any, in the case of an initial audit.
* Any restriction of the auditor’s liability when such possibility exists.
* A reference to any further agreements between the auditor and the entity.
* Any obligations to provide audit working papers to other parties.
An example of an audit engagement letter is set out in Appendix 1.
17 SLAuS 200, paragraphs 3-9.

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
67A
Audits of Components
A25. When the auditor of a parent entity is also the auditor of a component, the factors that may influence the decision
whether to send a separate audit engagement letter to the component include the following:
* Who appoints the component auditor;
* Whether a separate auditor’s report is to be issued on the component;
* Legal requirements in relation to audit appointments;
* Degree of ownership by parent; and
* Degree of independence of the component management from the parent entity.
Responsibilities of Management Prescribed by Law or Regulation (Ref: Para. 11-12)
A26. If, in the circumstances described in paragraphs A22 and A27, the auditor concludes that it is not necessary to record
certain terms of the audit engagement in an audit engagement letter, the auditor is still required by paragraph 11 to
seek the written agreement from management that it acknowledges and understands that it has the responsibilities set
out in paragraph 6(b). However, in accordance with paragraph 12, such written agreement may use the wording of the
law or regulation if such law or regulation establishes responsibilities for management that are equivalent in effect to
those described in paragraph 6(b). The accounting profession, audit standards setter, or audit regulator in a jurisdiction
may have provided guidance as to whether the description in law or regulation is equivalent.
Considerations specific to public sector entities
A27. Law or regulation governing the operations of public sector audits generally mandate the appointment of a public
sector auditor and commonly set out the public sector auditor’s responsibilities and powers, including the power to
access an entity’s records and other information. When law or regulation prescribes in sufficient detail the terms of
the audit engagement, the public sector auditor may nonetheless consider that there are benefits in issuing a fuller
audit engagement letter than permitted by paragraph 11.
Recurring Audits (Ref: Para. 13)
A28. The auditor may decide not to send a new audit engagement letter or other written agreement each period. However,
the following factors may make it appropriate to revise the terms of the audit engagement or to remind the entity of
existing terms:
* Any indication that the entity misunderstands the objective and scope of the audit.
* Any revised or special terms of the audit engagement.
* A recent change of senior management.
* A significant change in ownership.
* A significant change in nature or size of the entity’s business.
* A change in legal or regulatory requirements.
* A change in the financial reporting framework adopted in the preparation of the financial statements.
* A change in other reporting requirements.

<!-- page 68 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
68A
Acceptance of a Change in the Terms of the Audit Engagement
Request to Change the Terms of the Audit Engagement (Ref: Para. 14)
A29. A request from the entity for the auditor to change the terms of the audit engagement may result from a change in
circumstances affecting the need for the service, a misunderstanding as to the nature of an audit as originally
requested or a restriction on the scope of the audit engagement, whether imposed by management or caused by other
circumstances. The auditor, as required by paragraph 14, considers the justification given for the request, particularly
the implications of a restriction on the scope of the audit engagement.
A30. A change in circumstances that affects the entity’s requirements or a misunderstanding concerning the nature of the
service originally requested may be considered a reasonable basis for requesting a change in the audit engagement.
A31. In contrast, a change may not be considered reasonable if it appears that the change relates to information that is
incorrect, incomplete or otherwise unsatisfactory. An example might be where the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence regarding receivables and the entity asks for the audit engagement to be changed to a
review engagement to avoid a qualified opinion or a disclaimer of opinion.
UDITING
Request to Change to a Review or a Related Service (Ref: Para. 15)
A32. Before agreeing to change an audit engagement to a review or a related service, an auditor who was engaged to
perform an audit in accordance with SLAuSs may need to assess, in addition to the matters referred to in paragraphs
A29-A31 above, any legal or contractual implications of the change.
A33. If the auditor concludes that there is reasonable justification to change the audit engagement to a review or a related
service, the audit work performed to the date of change may be relevant to the changed engagement; however, the
work required to be performed and the report to be issued would be those appropriate to the revised engagement. In
order to avoid confusing the reader, the report on the related service would not include reference to:
(a) The original audit engagement; or
(b) Any procedures that may have been performed in the original audit engagement, except where the audit
engagement is changed to an engagement to undertake agreed-upon procedures and thus reference to the
procedures performed is a normal part of the report.
Additional Considerations in Engagement Acceptance
Financial Reporting Standards Supplemented by Law or Regulation (Ref: Para. 18)
A34. In some jurisdictions, law or regulation may supplement the financial reporting standards established by an authorized
or recognized standards setting organization with additional requirements relating to the preparation of financial
statements. In those jurisdictions, the applicable financial reporting framework for the purposes of applying the
SLAuSs encompasses both the identified financial reporting framework and such additional requirements provided
they do not conflict with the identified financial reporting framework. This may, for example, be the case when law or
regulation prescribes disclosures in addition to those required by the financial reporting standards or when they
narrow the range of acceptable choices that can be made within the financial reporting standards.
18
18 SLAuS 700, paragraph 15, includes a requirement regarding the evaluation of whether the financial statements adequately refer t o or
describe the applicable financial reporting framework.

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
69A
Financial Reporting Framework Prescribed by Law or Regulation—Other Matters Affecting Acceptance (Ref: Para. 19)
A35. Law or regulation may prescribe that the wording of the auditor’s opinion use the phrases “present fairly, in all
material respects” or “give a true and fair view” in a case where the auditor concludes that the applicable financial
reporting framework prescribed by law or regulation would otherwise have been unacceptable. In this case, the terms
of the prescribed wording of the auditor’s report are significantly different from the requirements of SLAuSs (see
paragraph 21).
Auditor’ s Report Prescribed by Law or Regulation (Ref: Para. 21)
A36. SLAuSs require that the auditor shall not represent compliance with SLAuSs unless the auditor has complied with all
of the SLAuSs relevant to the audit.
19 When law or regulation prescribes the layout or wording of the auditor’s report
in a form or in terms that are significantly different from the requirements of SLAuSs and the auditor concludes that
additional explanation in the auditor’s report cannot mitigate possible misunderstanding, the auditor may consider
including a statement in the auditor’s report that the audit is not conducted in accordance with SLAuSs. The auditor
is, however, encouraged to apply SLAuSs, including the SLAuSs that address the auditor’s report, to the extent
practicable, notwithstanding that the auditor is not permitted to refer to the audit being conducted in accordance with
SLAuSs.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A37. In the public sector, specific requirements may exist within the legislation governing the audit mandate; for example,
the auditor may be required to report directly to a minister, the legislature or the public if the entity attempts to limit the
scope of the audit.
Appendix 1
(Ref: Paras. A23-24)
Example of an Audit Engagement Letter
The following is an example of an audit engagement letter for an audit of general purpose financial statements
prepared in accordance with Sri lanka Accounting Standards. This letter is not authoritative but is intended only to be a guide
that may be used in conjunction with the considerations outlined in this SLAuS. It will need to be varied according to
individual requirements and circumstances. It is drafted to refer to the audit of financial statements for a single reporting
period and would require adaptation if intended or expected to apply to recurring audits (see paragraph 13 of this SLAuS). It
may be appropriate to seek legal advice that any proposed letter is suitable.
* * *
To the appropriate representative of management or those charged with governance of ABC Company:
20
[The objective and scope of the audit ]
You21 have requested that we audit the financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as
at December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then
ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. We are pleased to confirm our
acceptance and our understanding of this audit engagement by means of this letter. Our audit will be conducted with the
objective of our expressing an opinion on the financial statements.
19 SLAuS 200, paragraph 20.
20 The addressees and references in the letter would be those that are appropriate in the circumstances of the engagement, includi ng the
relevant jurisdiction. It is important to refer to the appropriate persons – see paragraph A21.
21 Throughout this letter, references to “you,” “we,” “us,” “management,” “those charged with governance” and “auditor” would be u sed
or amended as appropriate in the circumstances.

<!-- page 70 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
70A
[The responsibilities of the auditor ]
We will conduct our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Those standards require that
we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence
about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment,
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. An
audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of an audit, together with the inherent limitations of internal control, there is an
unavoidable risk that some material misstatements may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and
performed in accordance with SLAuSs.
In making our risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the financial
statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. However, we will communicate to you in writing concerning
any significant deficiencies in internal control relevant to the audit of the financial statements that we have identified during
the audit.
[The responsibilities of management and identification of the applicable financial reporting framework (for
purposes of this example it is assumed that the auditor has not determined that the law or regulation prescribes those
responsibilities in appropriate terms; the descriptions in paragraph 6(b) of this SLAuS are therefore used). ]
Our audit will be conducted on the basis that [management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance]
22
acknowledge and understand that they have responsibility:
(a) For the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards; 23
(b) For such internal control as [management] determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and
(c) To provide us with:
(i) Access to all information of which [management] is aware that is relevant to the preparation of the financial
statements such as records, documentation and other matters;
(ii) Additional information that we may request from [management] for the purpose of the audit; and
(iii) Unrestricted access to persons within the entity from whom we determine it necessary to obtain audit
evidence.
As part of our audit process, we will request from [management and, where appropriate, those charged with
governance], written confirmation concerning representations made to us in connection with the audit.
UDITING
We look forward to full cooperation from your staff during our audit.
22 Use terminology as appropriate in the circumstances.
23 Or, if appropriate, “For the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Ac counting
Standards.”

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
71A
[Other relevant information ]
[Insert other information, such as fee arrangements, billings and other specific terms, as appropriate .]
[Reporting ]
[Insert appropriate reference to the expected form and content of the auditor’ s report.]
The form and content of our report may need to be amended in the light of our audit findings.
Please sign and return the attached copy of this letter to indicate your acknowledgement of, and agreement with, the
arrangements for our audit of the financial statements including our respective responsibilities.
XYZ & Co.
Acknowledged and agreed on behalf of ABC Company by
(signed)
......................
Name and Title
Date
Appendix 2
(Ref: Para. A10)
Determining the Acceptability of General Purpose Frameworks
Jurisdictions that Do Not Have Authorized or Recognized Standards Setting Organizations or Financial Reporting
Frameworks Prescribed by Law or Regulation
1. As explained in paragraph A10 of this SLAuS, when an entity is registered or operating in a jurisdiction that does not
have an authorized or recognized standards setting organization, or where use of the financial reporting framework is
not prescribed by law or regulation, management identifies an applicable financial reporting framework. Practice in
such jurisdictions is often to use the financial reporting standards established by one of the organizations described
in paragraph A8 of this SLAuS.
2. Alternatively, there may be established accounting conventions in a particular jurisdiction that are generally recognized
as the financial reporting framework for general purpose financial statements prepared by certain specified entities
operating in that jurisdiction. When such a financial reporting framework is adopted, the auditor is required by
paragraph 6(a) of this SLAuS to determine whether the accounting conventions collectively can be considered to
constitute an acceptable financial reporting framework for general purpose financial statements. When the accounting
conventions are widely used in a particular jurisdiction, the accounting profession in that jurisdiction may have
considered the acceptability of the financial reporting framework on behalf of the auditors. Alternatively, the auditor
may make this determination by considering whether the accounting conventions exhibit attributes normally exhibited
by acceptable financial reporting frameworks (see paragraph 3 below), or by comparing the accounting conventions
to the requirements of an existing financial reporting framework considered to be acceptable (see paragraph 4 below).

<!-- page 72 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
72A
3. Acceptable financial reporting frameworks normally exhibit the following attributes that result in information provided
in financial statements that is useful to the intended users:
(a) Relevance, in that the information provided in the financial statements is relevant to the nature of the entity and
the purpose of the financial statements. For example, in the case of a business enterprise that prepares general
purpose financial statements, relevance is assessed in terms of the information necessary to meet the common
financial information needs of a wide range of users in making economic decisions. These needs are ordinarily
met by presenting the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the business enterprise.
AUDITING
(b) Completeness, in that transactions and events, account balances and disclosures that could affect conclusions
based on the financial statements are not omitted.
(c) Reliability, in that the information provided in the financial statements:
(i) Where applicable, reflects the economic substance of events and transactions and not merely their legal
form; and
(ii) Results in reasonably consistent evaluation, measurement, presentation and disclosure, when used in
similar circumstances.
(d) Neutrality, in that it contributes to information in the financial statements that is free from bias.
(e) Understandability, in that the information in the financial statements is clear and comprehensive and not
subject to significantly different interpretation.
4. The auditor may decide to compare the accounting conventions to the requirements of an existing financial reporting
framework considered to be acceptable. For example, the auditor may compare the accounting conventions to SLFRSs.
For an audit of a small entity, the auditor may decide to compare the accounting conventions to a financial reporting
framework specifically developed for such entities by an authorized or recognized standards setting organization.
When the auditor makes such a comparison and differences are identified, the decision as to whether the accounting
conventions adopted in the preparation of the financial statements constitute an acceptable financial reporting
framework includes considering the reasons for the differences and whether application of the accounting conventions,
or the description of the financial reporting framework in the financial statements, could result in financial statements
that are misleading.
5. A conglomeration of accounting conventions devised to suit individual preferences is not an acceptable financial
reporting framework for general purpose financial statements. Similarly, a compliance framework will not be an acceptable
financial reporting framework, unless it is generally accepted in the particular jurisdictions by preparers and users.

<!-- page 73 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
73A
SRI  LANKA   AUDITING  STANDARD  220
QUALITY CONTROL FOR AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................ 1
System of Quality Control and Role of Engagement Teams ............... 2-4
Effective Date ...................................................................................... 5
Objective ............................................................................................. 6
Definitions ........................................................................................... 7
Requirements
Leadership Responsibilities for Quality on Audits .............................. 8
Relevant Ethical Requirements ............................................................ 9-11
Acceptance and Continuance of Client Relationships and Audit
Engagements  .................................................................................. 12-13
Assignment of Engagement Teams ...................................................... 14
Engagement Performance .................................................................... 15-22
Monitoring ............................................................................................ 23
Documentation ..................................................................................... 24-25
Application and Other Explanatory Material
System of Quality Control and Role of Engagement Teams  …........... A1-A2
Leadership Responsibilities for Quality on Audits .............................. A3
Relevant Ethical Requirements ........................................................... A4-A7
Acceptance and Continuance of Client Relationships and Audit
Engagements ................................................................................. A8-A9
Assignment of Engagement Teams .....................................................A10-A12
Engagement Performance ....................................................................A13-A31
Monitoring ...........................................................................................A32-A34
Documentation ..................................................................................... A35
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 220, “Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements”
should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200 “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”

<!-- page 74 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
74A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the specific responsibilities of the auditor regarding quality
control procedures for an audit of financial statements. It also addresses, where applicable, the responsibilities of the
engagement quality control reviewer. This SLAuS is to be read in conjunction with relevant ethical requirements.
System of Quality Control and Role of Engagement Teams
2. Quality control systems, policies and procedures are the responsibility of the audit firm. Under SLSQC 1, the firm has
an obligation to establish and maintain a system of quality control to provide it with reasonable assurance that:
(a) The firm and its personnel comply with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements;
and
(b) The reports issued by the firm or engagement partners are appropriate in the circumstances.
1
This SLAuS is premised on the basis that the firm is subject to SLSQC 1. (Ref: Para. A1)
3. Within the context of the firm’s system of quality control, engagement teams have a responsibility to implement
quality control procedures that are applicable to the audit engagement and provide the firm with relevant information
to enable the functioning of that part of the firm’s system of quality control relating to independence.
4. Engagement teams are entitled to rely on the firm’s system of quality control, unless information provided by the firm
or other parties suggests otherwise. (Ref: Para. A2)
Effective Date
5. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
6. The objective of the auditor is to implement quality control procedures at the engagement level that provide the
auditor with reasonable assurance that:
(a) The audit complies with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements; and
DITING
(b) The auditor’s report issued is appropriate in the circumstances.
Definitions
7. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Engagement partner
2 – The partner or other person in the firm who is responsible for the audit engagement and
its performance, and for the auditor’s report that is issued on behalf of the firm, and who, where required, has the
appropriate authority from a professional, legal or regulatory body.
1 SLSQC 1, “Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related
Services Engagements,” paragraph 11.
2 “Engagement partner,” “partner,” and “firm” should be read as referring to their public sector equivalents where relevant.

<!-- page 75 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
75A
(b) Engagement quality control review – A process designed to provide an objective evaluation, on or before the
date of the auditor’s report, of the significant judgments the engagement team made and the conclusions it
reached in formulating the auditor’s report. The engagement quality control review process is only for audits of
financial statements of listed entities and those other audit engagements, if any, for which the firm has determined
an engagement quality control review is required.
(c) Engagement quality control reviewer – A partner, other person in the firm, suitably qualified external person, or
a team made up of such individuals, none of whom is part of the engagement team, with sufficient and appropriate
experience and authority to objectively evaluate the significant judgments the engagement team made and the
conclusions it reached in formulating the auditor’s report.
(d) Engagement team – All partners and staff performing the engagement, and any individuals engaged by the firm
or a network firm who perform audit procedures on the engagement. This excludes an auditor’s external expert
engaged by the firm or a network firm.
3
(e) Firm – A sole practitioner, partnership or corporation or other entity of professional accountants.
(f) Inspection – In relation to completed audit engagements, procedures designed to provide evidence of compliance
by engagement teams with the firm’s quality control policies and procedures.
(g) Listed entity – An entity whose shares, stock or debt are quoted or listed on a recognized stock exchange, or
are marketed under the regulations of a recognized stock exchange or other equivalent body.
(h) Monitoring – A process comprising an ongoing consideration and evaluation of the firm’s system of quality
control, including a periodic inspection of a selection of completed engagements, designed to provide the firm
with reasonable assurance that its system of quality control is operating effectively.
(i) Network firm – A firm or entity that belongs to a network.
(j) Network – A larger structure:
(i) That is aimed at cooperation, and
(ii) That is clearly aimed at profit or cost-sharing or shares common ownership, control or management,
common quality control policies and procedures, common business strategy, the use of a common brand
name, or a significant part of professional resources.
(k) Partner – Any individual with authority to bind the firm with respect to the performance of a professional
services engagement.
(l) Personnel – Partners and staff.
(m) Professional standards – Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) and relevant ethical requirements.
(n) Relevant ethical requirements – Ethical requirements to which the engagement team and engagement quality
control reviewer are subject, which ordinarily comprise Parts A and B of the ICASL’s Code of Ethics for
Professional Accountants  (ICASL Code) related to an audit of financial statements together with national
requirements that are more restrictive.
3 SLAuS 620, “Using the Work of an Auditor’s Expert,” paragraph 6(a), defines the term “auditor’s expert.”

<!-- page 76 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
76A
(o) Staff – Professionals, other than partners, including any experts the firm employs.
(p) Suitably qualified external person – An individual outside the firm with the competence and capabilities to act
as an engagement partner, for example a partner of another firm, or an employee (with appropriate experience) of
either a professional accountancy body whose members may perform audits of historical financial information
or of an organization that provides relevant quality control services.
Requirements
Leadership Responsibilities for Quality on Audits
8. The engagement partner shall take responsibility for the overall quality on each audit engagement to which that
partner is assigned. (Ref: Para. A3)
DITING
Relevant Ethical Requirements
9. Throughout the audit engagement, the engagement partner shall remain alert, through observation and making
inquiries as necessary, for evidence of non-compliance with relevant ethical requirements by members of the
engagement team. (Ref: Para. A4-A5)
10. If matters come to the engagement partner’s attention through the firm’s system of quality control or otherwise that
indicate that members of the engagement team have not complied with relevant ethical requirements, the engagement
partner, in consultation with others in the firm, shall determine the appropriate action. (Ref: Para. A5)
Independence
11. The engagement partner shall form a conclusion on compliance with independence requirements that apply to the
audit engagement. In doing so, the engagement partner shall: (Ref: Para. A5)
(a) Obtain relevant information from the firm and, where applicable, network firms, to identify and evaluate
circumstances and relationships that create threats to independence;
(b) Evaluate information on identified breaches, if any, of the firm’s independence policies and procedures to
determine whether they create a threat to independence for the audit engagement; and
(c) Take appropriate action to eliminate such threats or reduce them to an acceptable level by applying safeguards,
or, if considered appropriate, to withdraw from the audit engagement, where withdrawal is possible under
applicable law or regulation. The engagement partner shall promptly report to the firm any inability to resolve
the matter for appropriate action. (Ref: Para. A6-A7)
Acceptance and Continuance of Client Relationships and Audit Engagements
12. The engagement partner shall be satisfied that appropriate procedures regarding the acceptance and continuance of
client relationships and audit engagements have been followed, and shall determine that conclusions reached in this
regard are appropriate. (Ref: Para. A8-A9)
13. If the engagement partner obtains information that would have caused the firm to decline the audit engagement had
that information been available earlier, the engagement partner shall communicate that information promptly to the
firm, so that the firm and the engagement partner can take the necessary action. (Ref: Para. A9)

<!-- page 77 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
77A
Assignment of Engagement Teams
14. The engagement partner shall be satisfied that the engagement team, and any auditor’s experts who are not part of the
engagement team, collectively have the appropriate competence and capabilities to:
(a) Perform the audit engagement in accordance with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory
requirements; and
(b) Enable an auditor’s report that is appropriate in the circumstances to be issued. (Ref: Para. A10-A12)
Engagement Performance
Direction, Supervision and Performance
15. The engagement partner shall take responsibility for:
(a) The direction, supervision and performance of the audit engagement in compliance with professional standards
and applicable legal and regulatory requirements; and (Ref: Para. A13-A15, A20)
(b) The auditor’s report being appropriate in the circumstances.
Reviews
16. The engagement partner shall take responsibility for reviews being performed in accordance with the firm’s review
policies and procedures. (Ref: Para. A16-A17, A20)
17. On or before the date of the auditor’s report, the engagement partner shall, through a review of the audit documentation
and discussion with the engagement team, be satisfied that sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained
to support the conclusions reached and for the auditor’s report to be issued. (Ref: Para. A18-A20)
Consultation
18. The engagement partner shall:
(a) Take responsibility for the engagement team undertaking appropriate consultation on difficult or contentious
matters;
(b) Be satisfied that members of the engagement team have undertaken appropriate consultation during the course
of the engagement, both within the engagement team and between the engagement team and others at the
appropriate level within or outside the firm;
(c) Be satisfied that the nature and scope of, and conclusions resulting from, such consultations are agreed with
the party consulted; and
(d) Determine that conclusions resulting from such consultations have been implemented. (Ref: Para. A21-A22)
Engagement Quality Control Review
19. For audits of financial statements of listed entities, and those other audit engagements, if any, for which the firm has
determined that an engagement quality control review is required, the engagement partner shall:
(a) Determine that an engagement quality control reviewer has been appointed;
(b) Discuss significant matters arising during the audit engagement, including those identified during the engagement
quality control review, with the engagement quality control reviewer; and
(c) Not date the auditor’s report until the completion of the engagement quality control review. (Ref: Para.
A23-A25)

<!-- page 78 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
78A
20. The engagement quality control reviewer shall perform an objective evaluation of the significant judgments made by
the engagement team, and the conclusions reached in formulating the auditor’s report. This evaluation shall involve:
(a) Discussion of significant matters with the engagement partner;
(b) Review of the financial statements and the proposed auditor’s report;
(c) Review of selected audit documentation relating to the significant judgments the engagement team made and
the conclusions it reached; and
(d) Evaluation of the conclusions reached in formulating the auditor’s report and consideration of whether the
proposed auditor’s report is appropriate. (Ref: Para. A26-A27, A29-A31)
21. For audits of financial statements of listed entities, the engagement quality control reviewer, on performing an
engagement quality control review, shall also consider the following:
(a) The engagement team’s evaluation of the firm’s independence in relation to the audit engagement;
(b) Whether appropriate consultation has taken place on matters involving differences of opinion or other difficult
or contentious matters, and the conclusions arising from those consultations; and
(c) Whether audit documentation selected for review reflects the work performed in relation to the significant
judgments and supports the conclusions reached. (Ref: Para. A28-A31)
Differences of Opinion
22. If differences of opinion arise within the engagement team, with those consulted or, where applicable, between the
engagement partner and the engagement quality control reviewer, the engagement team shall follow the firm’s policies
and procedures for dealing with and resolving differences of opinion.
Monitoring
23. An effective system of quality control includes a monitoring process designed to provide the firm with reasonable
assurance that its policies and procedures relating to the system of quality control are relevant, adequate, and
operating effectively. The engagement partner shall consider the results of the firm’s monitoring process as evidenced
in the latest information circulated by the firm and, if applicable, other network firms and whether deficiencies noted
in that information may affect the audit engagement. (Ref: Para A32-A34)
Documentation
24. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation:
4
(a) Issues identified with respect to compliance with relevant ethical requirements and how they were resolved.
(b) Conclusions on compliance with independence requirements that apply to the audit engagement, and any
relevant discussions with the firm that support these conclusions.
(c) Conclusions reached regarding the acceptance and continuance of client relationships and audit engagements.
(d) The nature and scope of, and conclusions resulting from, consultations undertaken during the course of the
audit engagement. (Ref: Para. A35)
4 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.

<!-- page 79 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
79A
25. The engagement quality control reviewer shall document, for the audit engagement reviewed, that:
(a) The procedures required by the firm’s policies on engagement quality control review have been performed;
(b) The engagement quality control review has been completed on or before the date of the auditor’s report; and
(c) The reviewer is not aware of any unresolved matters that would cause the reviewer to believe that the significant
judgments the engagement team made and the conclusions it reached were not appropriate.
Application and Other Explanatory Material
System of Quality Control and Role of Engagement Teams (Ref: Para. 2)
A1. SLSQC 1, deals with the firm’s responsibilities to establish and maintain its system of quality control for audit
engagements. The system of quality control includes policies and procedures that address each of the following
elements:
* Leadership responsibilities for quality within the firm;
* Relevant ethical requirements;
* Acceptance and continuance of client relationships and specific engagements;
* Human resources;
* Engagement performance; and
* Monitoring.
National requirements that deal with the firm’s responsibilities to establish and maintain a system of quality control
are at least as demanding as SLSQC 1 when they address all the elements referred to in this paragraph and impose
obligations on the firm that achieve the aims of the requirements set out in SLSQC 1.
Reliance on the Firm’ s System of Quality Control (Ref: Para. 4)
A2. Unless information provided by the firm or other parties suggest otherwise, the engagement team may rely on the
firm’s system of quality control in relation to, for example:
* Competence of personnel through their recruitment and formal training.
* Independence through the accumulation and communication of relevant independence information.
* Maintenance of client relationships through acceptance and continuance systems.
* Adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements through the monitoring process.
Leadership Responsibilities for Quality on Audits (Ref: Para. 8)
A3. The actions of the engagement partner and appropriate messages to the other members of the engagement team, in
taking responsibility for the overall quality on each audit engagement, emphasize:
(a) The importance to audit quality of:
(i) Performing work that complies with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements;
(ii) Complying with the firm’s quality control policies and procedures as applicable;
(iii) Issuing auditor’s reports that are appropriate in the circumstances; and
(iv) The engagement team’s ability to raise concerns without fear of reprisals; and
(b) The fact that quality is essential in performing audit engagements.

<!-- page 80 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
80A
Relevant Ethical Requirements
Compliance with Relevant Ethical Requirements (Ref: Para. 9)
A4. The ICASL Code establishes the fundamental principles of professional ethics, which include:
(a) Integrity;
(b) Objectivity;
(c) Professional competence and due care;
(d) Confidentiality; and
(e) Professional behavior.
Definition of “Firm,” “Network” and “Network Firm” (Ref: Para. 9-11)
A5. The definitions of “firm,” “network” or “network firm” in relevant ethical requirements may differ from those set out
in this SLAuS. For example, the ICASL Code defines the “firm” as:
(a) A sole practitioner, partnership or corporation of professional accountants;
(b) An entity that controls such parties through ownership, management or other means; and
(c) An entity controlled by such parties through ownership, management or other means.
The ICASL Code also provides guidance in relation to the terms “network” and “network firm.”
In complying with the requirements in paragraphs 9-11, the definitions used in the relevant ethical requirements apply
in so far as is necessary to interpret those ethical requirements.
Threats to Independence (Ref: Para. 11(c))
A6. The engagement partner may identify a threat to independence regarding the audit engagement that safeguards may
not be able to eliminate or reduce to an acceptable level. In that case, as required by paragraph 11(c), the engagement
partner reports to the relevant person(s) within the firm to determine appropriate action, which may include eliminating
the activity or interest that creates the threat, or withdrawing from the audit engagement, where withdrawal is
possible under applicable law or regulation.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A7. Statutory measures may provide safeguards for the independence of public sector auditors. However, public sector
auditors or audit firms carrying out public sector audits on behalf of the statutory auditor may, depending on the
terms of the mandate in a particular jurisdiction, need to adapt their approach in order to promote compliance with the
spirit of paragraph 11. This may include, where the public sector auditor’s mandate does not permit withdrawal from
the engagement, disclosure through a public report, of circumstances that have arisen that would, if they were in the
private sector, lead the auditor to withdraw.
Acceptance and Continuance of Client Relationships and Audit Engagements (Ref: Para. 12)
A8. SLSQC 1 requires the firm to obtain information considered necessary in the circumstances before accepting an
engagement with a new client, when deciding whether to continue an existing engagement, and when considering
acceptance of a new engagement with an existing client.
5 Information such as the following assists the engagement
partner in determining whether the conclusions reached regarding the acceptance and continuance of client
relationships and audit engagements are appropriate:
5 SLSQC 1, paragraph 27(a).

<!-- page 81 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
81A
* The integrity of the principal owners, key management and those charged with governance of the entity;
* Whether the engagement team is competent to perform the audit engagement and has the necessary capabilities,
including time and resources;
* Whether the firm and the engagement team can comply with relevant ethical requirements; and
* Significant matters that have arisen during the current or previous audit engagement, and their implications for
continuing the relationship.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities (Ref: Para. 12-13)
A9. In the public sector, auditors may be appointed in accordance with statutory procedures. Accordingly, certain of the
requirements and considerations regarding the acceptance and continuance of client relationships and audit
engagements as set out in paragraphs 12, 13 and A8 may not be relevant. Nonetheless, information gathered as a
result of the process described may be valuable to public sector auditors in performing risk assessments and in
carrying out reporting responsibilities.
Assignment of Engagement Teams (Ref: Para. 14)
A10. An engagement team includes a person using expertise in a specialized area of accounting or auditing, whether
engaged or employed by the firm, if any, who performs audit procedures on the engagement. However, a person with
such expertise is not a member of the engagement team if that person’s involvement with the engagement is only
consultation. Consultations are addressed in paragraph 18, and paragraph A21-A22.
A11. When considering the appropriate competence and capabilities expected of the engagement team as a whole, the
engagement partner may take into consideration such matters as the team’s:
* Understanding of, and practical experience with, audit engagements of a similar nature and complexity through
appropriate training and participation.
* Understanding of professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
* Technical expertise, including expertise with relevant information technology and specialized areas of accounting
or auditing.
* Knowledge of relevant industries in which the client operates.
* Ability to apply professional judgment.
* Understanding of the firm’s quality control policies and procedures.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A12. In the public sector, additional appropriate competence may include skills that are necessary to discharge the terms
of the audit mandate in a particular jurisdiction. Such competence may include an understanding of the applicable
reporting arrangements, including reporting to the legislature or other governing body or in the public interest. The
wider scope of a public sector audit may include, for example, some aspects of performance auditing or a comprehensive
assessment of compliance with law, regulation or other authority and preventing and detecting fraud and corruption.
UDITING
Engagement Performance
Direction, Supervision and Performance (Ref: Para. 15(a))
A13. Direction of the engagement team involves informing the members of the engagement team of matters such as:

<!-- page 82 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
82A
* Their responsibilities, including the need to comply with relevant ethical requirements, and to plan and perform
an audit with professional skepticism as required by SLAuS 200.6
* Responsibilities of respective partners where more than one partner is involved in the conduct of an audit
engagement.
* The objectives of the work to be performed.
* The nature of the entity’s business.
* Risk-related issues.
* Problems that may arise.
* The detailed approach to the performance of the engagement.
Discussion among members of the engagement team allows less experienced team members to raise questions with
more experienced team members so that appropriate communication can occur within the engagement team.
A14. Appropriate teamwork and training assist less experienced members of the engagement team to clearly understand
the objectives of the assigned work.
A15. Supervision includes matters such as:
* Tracking the progress of the audit engagement.
* Considering the competence and capabilities of individual members of the engagement team, including whether
they have sufficient time to carry out their work, whether they understand their instructions, and whether the
work is being carried out in accordance with the planned approach to the audit engagement.
* Addressing significant matters arising during the audit engagement, considering their significance and modifying
the planned approach appropriately.
* Identifying matters for consultation or consideration by more experienced engagement team members during
the audit engagement.
Reviews
Review Responsibilities (Ref: Para. 16)
A16. Under SLSQC 1, the firm’s review responsibility policies and procedures are determined on the basis that work of less
experienced team members is reviewed by more experienced team members.
7
A17. A review consists of consideration whether, for example:
* The work has been performed in accordance with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory
requirements;
* Significant matters have been raised for further consideration;
* Appropriate consultations have taken place and the resulting conclusions have been documented and
implemented;
* There is a need to revise the nature, timing and extent of work performed;
6 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph 15.
7 SLSQC 1, paragraph 33.

<!-- page 83 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
83A
* The work performed supports the conclusions reached and is appropriately documented;
* The evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support the auditor’s report; and
* The objectives of the engagement procedures have been achieved.
The Engagement Partner’s Review of Work Performed (Ref: Para. 17)
A18. Timely reviews of the following by the engagement partner at appropriate stages during the engagement allow
significant matters to be resolved on a timely basis to the engagement partner’s satisfaction on or before the date of
the auditor’s report:
* Critical areas of judgment, especially those relating to difficult or contentious matters identified during the
course of the engagement;
* Significant risks; and
* Other areas the engagement partner considers important.
The engagement partner need not review all audit documentation, but may do so. However, as required by SLAuS
230, the partner documents the extent and timing of the reviews.
8
A19. An engagement partner taking over an audit during the engagement may apply the review procedures as described
in paragraphs A18 to review the work performed to the date of a change in order to assume the responsibilities of an
engagement partner.
Considerations Relevant Where a Member of the Engagement Team with Expertise in a Specialized Area of Accounting or
Auditing Is Used (Ref: Para. 15-17)
A20. Where a member of the engagement team with expertise in a specialized area of accounting or auditing is used,
direction, supervision and review of that engagement team member’s work may include matters such as:
* Agreeing with that member the nature, scope and objectives of that member’s work; and the respective roles of,
and the nature, timing and extent of communication between that member and other members of the engagement
team.
* Evaluating the adequacy of that member’s work including the relevance and reasonableness of that member’s
findings or conclusions and their consistency with other audit evidence.
Consultation (Ref: Para. 18)
A21. Ef fective consultation on significant technical, ethical, and other matters within the firm or, where applicable, outside
the firm can be achieved when those consulted :
* Are given all the relevant facts that will enable them to provide informed advice ; and
* Have appropriate knowledge, seniority and experience.
A22. It may be appropriate for the engagement team to consult outside the firm, for example, where the firm lacks appropriate
internal resources. They may take advantage of advisory services provided by other firms, professional and regulatory
bodies, or commercial organizations that provide relevant quality control services.
8 SLAuS 230, paragraph 9(c).

<!-- page 84 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
84A
Engagement Quality Control Review
Completion of the Engagement Quality Control Review before Dating of the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 19(c))
A23. SLAuS 700 requires the auditor’s report to be dated no earlier than the date on which the auditor has obtained
sufficient appropriate evidence on which to base the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements. 9 In cases of an
audit of financial statements of listed entities or when an engagement meets the criteria for an engagement quality
control review, such a review assists the auditor in determining whether sufficient appropriate evidence has been
obtained.
A24. Conducting the engagement quality control review in a timely manner at appropriate stages during the engagement
allows significant matters to be promptly resolved to the engagement quality control reviewer’s satisfaction on or
before the date of the auditor’s report.
A25. Completion of the engagement quality control review means the completion by the engagement quality control
reviewer of the requirements in paragraphs 20-21, and where applicable, compliance with paragraph 22.
Documentation of the engagement quality control review may be completed after the date of the auditor’s report as
part of the assembly of the final audit file. SLAuS 230 establishes requirements and provides guidance in this
regard.
10
Nature, Extent and Timing of Engagement Quality Control Review (Ref: Para. 20)
A26. Remaining alert for changes in circumstances allows the engagement partner to identify situations in which an
engagement quality control review is necessary, even though at the start of the engagement, such a review was not
required.
A27. The extent of the engagement quality control review may depend, among other things, on the complexity of the audit
engagement, whether the entity is a listed entity, and the risk that the auditor’s report might not be appropriate in the
circumstances. The performance of an engagement quality control review does not reduce the responsibilities of the
engagement partner for the audit engagement and its performance.
Engagement Quality Control Review of Listed Entities (Ref: Para. 21)
A28. Other matters relevant to evaluating the significant judgments made by the engagement team that may be considered
in an engagement quality control review of a listed entity include:
* Significant risks identified during the engagement in accordance with SLAuS 315,
11 and the responses to those
risks in accordance with SLAuS 330, 12 including the engagement team’s assessment of, and response to, the
risk of fraud in accordance with SLAuS 240.13
* Judgments made, particularly with respect to materiality and significant risks.
* The significance and disposition of corrected and uncorrected misstatements identified during the audit.
* The matters to be communicated to management and those charged with governance and, where applicable,
other parties such as regulatory bodies.
* These other matters, depending on the circumstances, may also be applicable for engagement quality control
reviews for audits of financial statements of other entities.
9 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements,” paragraph 41.
10 SLAuS 230, paragraphs 14-16.
11 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment.”
12  SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”
13 SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements.”

<!-- page 85 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
85A
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities (Ref: Para. 20-21)
A29. In addition to the audits of financial statements of listed entities, an engagement quality control review is required for
audit engagements that meet the criteria established by the firm that subjects engagements to an engagement quality
control review. In some cases, none of the firm’s audit engagements may meet the criteria that would subject them to
such a review.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities (Ref: Para. 20-21)
A30. In the public sector, a statutorily appointed auditor (for example, an Auditor General, or other suitably qualified
person appointed on behalf of the Auditor General), may act in a role equivalent to that of engagement partner with
overall responsibility for public sector audits. In such circumstances, where applicable, the selection of the engagement
quality control reviewer includes consideration of the need for independence from the audited entity and the ability
of the engagement quality control reviewer to provide an objective evaluation.
A31. Listed entities as referred to in paragraphs 21 and A28 are not common in the public sector. However, there may be
other public sector entities that are significant due to size, complexity or public interest aspects, and which consequently
have a wide range of stakeholders. Examples include state owned corporations and public utilities. Ongoing
transformations within the public sector may also give rise to new types of significant entities. There are no fixed
objective criteria on which the determination of significance is based. Nonetheless, public sector auditors evaluate
which entities may be of sufficient significance to warrant performance of an engagement quality control review.
Monitoring (Ref: Para. 23)
A32. SLSQC 1 requires the firm to establish a monitoring process designed to provide it with reasonable assurance that the
policies and procedures relating to the system of quality control are relevant, adequate and operating effectively.
14
A33. In considering deficiencies that may affect the audit engagement, the engagement partner may have regard to
measures the firm took to rectify the situation that the engagement partner considers are sufficient in the context of
that audit.
A34. A deficiency in the firm’s system of quality control does not necessarily indicate that a particular audit
engagement was not performed in accordance with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory
requirements, or that the auditor’s report was not appropriate.
Documentation
Documentation of Consultations (Ref: Para. 24(d))
A35. Documentation of consultations with other professionals that involve difficult or contentious matters that is
sufficiently complete and detailed contributes to an understanding of:
* The issue on which consultation was sought; and
* The results of the consultation, including any decisions taken, the basis for those decisions and how they were
implemented.
14 SLSQC 1, paragraph 48.

<!-- page 86 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
86A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  230
Audit Documentation
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ........................................................................................................................................ 1
Nature and Purposes of Audit Documentation .................................... ....................................................... 2-3
Effective Date .................................................................................................................................................... 4
Objective  ........................................................................................................................................................... 5
Definitions  ........................................................................................................................................................ 6
Requirements
Timely Preparation of Audit Documentation  ............................................................................................... 7
Documentation of the Audit Procedures Performed and Audit Evidence Obtained ................................ 8-13
Assembly of the Final Audit File .................................................................................................................... 14-16
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Timely Preparation of Audit Documentation ................................................................................................ A1
Documentation of the Audit Procedures Performed and Audit Evidence Obtained ................................ A2-A20
Assembly of the Final Audit File .................................................................................................................... A21-A24
Appendix: Specific Audit Documentation Requirements in Other SLAuSs
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 230, “Audit Documentation” should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200,
“Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to prepare audit documentation for
an audit of financial statements. The Appendix lists other SLAuSs that contain specific documentation requirements
and guidance. The specific documentation requirements of other SLAuSs do not limit the application of this SLAuS.
Law or regulation may establish additional documentation requirements.
Nature and Purposes of Audit Documentation

<!-- page 87 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
87A
2. Audit documentation that meets the requirements of this SLAuS and the specific documentation requirements of
other relevant SLAuSs provides:
(a) Evidence of the auditor’s basis for a conclusion about the achievement of the overall objectives of the
auditor ;1 and
(b) Evidence that the audit was planned and performed in accordance with SLAuSs and applicable legal and
regulatory requirements.
3. Audit documentation serves a number of additional purposes, including the following:
* Assisting the engagement team to plan and perform the audit.
* Assisting members of the engagement team responsible for supervision to direct and supervise the audit work,
and to discharge their review responsibilities in accordance with SLAuS 220.
2
* Enabling the engagement team to be accountable for its work.
* Retaining a record of matters of continuing significance to future audits.
* Enabling the conduct of quality control reviews and inspections in accordance with SLSQC 1
3. 4
* Enabling the conduct of external inspections in accordance with applicable legal, regulatory or other requirements.
AUDITING
Effective Date
4. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
5. The objective of the auditor is to prepare documentation that provides :
(a) A sufficient and appropriate record of the basis for the auditor’s report ; and
(b) Evidence that the audit was planned and performed in accordance with SLAuSs and applicable legal and
regulatory requirements.
Definitions
6. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below :
(a) Audit documentation – The record of audit procedures performed, relevant audit evidence obtained, and
conclusions the auditor reached (terms such as “working papers” or “workpapers” are also sometimes used) ;
(b) Audit file – One or more folders or other storage media, in physical or electronic form, containing the records
that comprise the audit documentation for a specific engagement.
1 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph 11.
2 SLAuS 220, “Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraphs 15-17.
3 SLSQC 1, “Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related
Services Engagements,” paragraphs 32-33, 35-38, and 48.
4 Not used.

<!-- page 88 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
88A
(c) Experienced auditor – An individual (whether internal or external to the firm) who has practical audit experience,
and a reasonable understanding of :
(i) Audit processes ;
(ii) SLAuSs and applicable legal and regulatory requirements ;
(iii) The business environment in which the entity operates ; and
(iv) Auditing and financial reporting issues relevant to the entity’s industry.
Requirements
Timely Preparation of Audit Documentation
7. The auditor shall prepare audit documentation on a timely basis. (Ref: Para. A1)
Documentation of the Audit Procedures Performed and Audit Evidence Obtained
Form, Content and Extent of Audit Documentation
8. The auditor shall prepare audit documentation that is sufficient to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous
connection with the audit, to understand : (Ref: Para. A2-A5, A16-A17)
(a) The nature, timing and extent of the audit procedures performed to comply with the SLAuSs and applicable
legal and regulatory requirements ; (Ref: Para. A6-A7)
(b) The results of the audit procedures performed, and the audit evidence obtained ; and
(c) Significant matters arising during the audit, the conclusions reached thereon, and significant professional
judgments made in reaching those conclusions. (Ref: Para. A8-A11)
9. In documenting the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed, the auditor shall record:
(a) The identifying characteristics of the specific items or matters tested; (Ref: Para. A12)
(b) Who performed the audit work and the date such work was completed; and
(c) Who reviewed the audit work performed and the date and extent of such review. (Ref: Para. A13)
10. The auditor shall document discussions of significant matters with management, those charged with governance,
and others, including the nature of the significant matters discussed and when and with whom the discussions took
place. (Ref: Para. A14)
11. If the auditor identified information that is inconsistent with the auditor’s final conclusion regarding a significant
matter, the auditor shall document how the auditor addressed the inconsistency. (Ref: Para. A15)
Departure from a Relevant Requirement
12. If, in exceptional circumstances, the auditor judges it necessary to depart from a relevant requirement in a SLAuS, the
auditor shall document how the alternative audit procedures performed achieve the aim of that requirement, and the
reasons for the departure. (Ref: Para. A18-A19)
DITING

<!-- page 89 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
89A
Matters Arising after the Date of the Auditor’ s Report
13. If, in exceptional circumstances, the auditor performs new or additional audit procedures or draws new conclusions
after the date of the auditor’s report, the auditor shall document : (Ref: Para. A20)
(a) The circumstances encountered ;
(b) The new or additional audit procedures performed, audit evidence obtained, and conclusions reached, and
their effect on the auditor’s report ; and
(c) When and by whom the resulting changes to audit documentation were made and reviewed.
Assembly of the Final Audit File
14. The auditor shall assemble the audit documentation in an audit file and complete the administrative process of
assembling the final audit file on a timely basis after the date of the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A21-A22)
15. After the assembly of the final audit file has been completed, the auditor shall not delete or discard audit documentation
of any nature before the end of its retention period. (Ref: Para. A23)
16. In circumstances other than those envisaged in paragraph 13 where the auditor finds it necessary to modify existing
audit documentation or add new audit documentation after the assembly of the final audit file has been completed, the
auditor shall, regardless of the nature of the modifications or additions, document : (Ref: Para. A24)
(a) The specific reasons for making them ; and
(b) When and by whom they were made and reviewed.
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Timely Preparation of Audit Documentation (Ref: Para. 7)
A1. Preparing sufficient and appropriate audit documentation on a timely basis helps to enhance the quality of the audit
and facilitates the effective review and evaluation of the audit evidence obtained and conclusions reached before the
auditor’s report is finalized. Documentation prepared after the audit work has been performed is likely to be less
accurate than documentation prepared at the time such work is performed.
Documentation of the Audit Procedures Performed and Audit Evidence Obtained
Form, Content and Extent of Audit Documentation (Ref: Para. 8)
A2. The form, content and extent of audit documentation depend on factors such as :
* The size and complexity of the entity.
* The nature of the audit procedures to be performed.
* The identified risks of material misstatement.
* The significance of the audit evidence obtained.

<!-- page 90 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
90A
* The nature and extent of exceptions identified.
* The need to document a conclusion or the basis for a conclusion not readily determinable from the documentation
of the work performed or audit evidence obtained.
* The audit methodology and tools used.
A3. Audit documentation may be recorded on paper or on electronic or other media. Examples of audit documentation
include :
* Audit programs.
* Analyses.
* Issues memoranda.
* Summaries of significant matters.
* Letters of confirmation and representation.
* Checklists.
* Correspondence (including e-mail) concerning significant matters.
The auditor may include abstracts or copies of the entity’s records (for example, significant and specific contracts and
agreements) as part of audit documentation. Audit documentation, however, is not a substitute for the entity’s
accounting records.
A4. The auditor need not include in audit documentation superseded drafts of working papers and financial statements,
notes that reflect incomplete or preliminary thinking, previous copies of documents corrected for typographical or
other errors, and duplicates of documents.
A5. Oral explanations by the auditor, on their own, do not represent adequate support for the work the auditor performed
or conclusions the auditor reached, but may be used to explain or clarify information contained in the audit
documentation.
Documentation of Compliance with SLAuSs  (Ref: Para. 8(a))
A6. In principle, compliance with the requirements of this SLAuS will result in the audit documentation being sufficient
and appropriate in the circumstances. Other SLAuSs contain specific documentation requirements that are intended
to clarify the application of this SLAuS in the particular circumstances of those other SLAuSs. The specific
documentation requirements of other SLAuSs do not limit the application of this SLAuS. Furthermore, the absence of
a documentation requirement in any particular SLAuS is not intended to suggest that there is no documentation that
will be prepared as a result of complying with that SLAuS.
A7. Audit documentation provides evidence that the audit complies with the SLAuSs. However, it is neither necessary
nor practicable for the auditor to document every matter considered, or professional judgment made, in an audit.
Further, it is unnecessary for the auditor to document separately (as in a checklist, for example) compliance with
matters for which compliance is demonstrated by documents included within the audit file. For example:
* The existence of an adequately documented audit plan demonstrates that the auditor has planned the audit.
* The existence of a signed engagement letter in the audit file demonstrates that the auditor has agreed the terms
of the audit engagement with management or, where appropriate, those charged with governance.

<!-- page 91 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
91A
* An auditor’s report containing an appropriately qualified opinion on the financial statements demonstrates that
the auditor has complied with the requirement to express a qualified opinion under the circumstances specified
in the SLAuSs.
* In relation to requirements that apply generally throughout the audit, there may be a number of ways in which
compliance with them may be demonstrated within the audit file:
º For example, there may be no single way in which the auditor’s professional skepticism is documented. But
the audit documentation may nevertheless provide evidence of the auditor’s exercise of professional
skepticism in accordance with the SLAuSs. Such evidence may include specific procedures performed to
corroborate management’s responses to the auditor’s inquiries.
º Similarly, that the engagement partner has taken responsibility for the direction, supervision and performance
of the audit in compliance with the SLAuSs may be evidenced in a number of ways within the audit
documentation. This may include documentation of the engagement partner’s timely involvement in aspects
of the audit, such as participation in the team discussions required by SLAuS 315.
5
Documentation of Significant Matters and Related Significant Professional Judgments (Ref: Para. 8(c))
A8. Judging the significance of a matter requires an objective analysis of the facts and circumstances. Examples of
significant matters include:
* Matters that give rise to significant risks (as defined in SLAuS 315). 6
* Results of audit procedures indicating (a) that the financial statements could be materially misstated, or (b) a
need to revise the auditor’s previous assessment of the risks of material misstatement and the auditor’s responses
to those risks.
* Circumstances that cause the auditor significant difficulty in applying necessary audit procedures.
* Findings that could result in a modification to the audit opinion or the inclusion of an Emphasis of Matter
paragraph in the auditor’s report.
A9. An important factor in determining the form, content and extent of audit documentation of significant matters is the
extent of professional judgment exercised in performing the work and evaluating the results. Documentation of the
professional judgments made, where significant, serves to explain the auditor’s conclusions and to reinforce the
quality of the judgment. Such matters are of particular interest to those responsible for reviewing audit documentation,
including those carrying out subsequent audits when reviewing matters of continuing significance (for example,
when performing a retrospective review of accounting estimates).
A10. Some examples of circumstances in which, in accordance with paragraph 8, it is appropriate to prepare audit
documentation relating to the use of professional judgment include, where the matters and judgments are
significant :
AUDITING
* The rationale for the auditor’s conclusion when a requirement provides that the auditor “shall consider” certain
information or factors, and that consideration is significant in the context of the particular engagement.
5 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment,”
paragraph 10.
6 SLAuS 315, paragraph 4(e).

<!-- page 92 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
92A
* The basis for the auditor’s conclusion on the reasonableness of areas of subjective judgments (for example, the
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates).
* The basis for the auditor’s conclusions about the authenticity of a document when further investigation (such
as making appropriate use of an expert or of confirmation procedures) is undertaken in response to conditions
identified during the audit that caused the auditor to believe that the document may not be authentic.
A11. The auditor may consider it helpful to prepare and retain as part of the audit documentation a summary (sometimes
known as a completion memorandum) that describes the significant matters identified during the audit and how they
were addressed, or that includes cross-references to other relevant supporting audit documentation that provides
such information. Such a summary may facilitate effective and efficient reviews and inspections of the audit
documentation, particularly for large and complex audits. Further, the preparation of such a summary may assist the
auditor’s consideration of the significant matters. It may also help the auditor to consider whether, in light of the audit
procedures performed and conclusions reached, there is any individual relevant SLAuS objective that the auditor
cannot achieve that would prevent the auditor from achieving the overall objectives of the auditor.
Identification of Specific Items or Matters Tested, and of the Preparer and Reviewer (Ref: Para. 9)
A12. Recording the identifying characteristics serves a number of purposes. For example, it enables the engagement team
to be accountable for its work and facilitates the investigation of exceptions or inconsistencies. Identifying characteristics
will vary with the nature of the audit procedure and the item or matter tested. For example:
* For a detailed test of entity-generated purchase orders, the auditor may identify the documents selected for
testing by their dates and unique purchase order numbers.
* For a procedure requiring selection or review of all items over a specific amount from a given population, the
auditor may record the scope of the procedure and identify the population (for example, all journal entries over
a specified amount from the journal register).
* For a procedure requiring systematic sampling from a population of documents, the auditor may identify the
documents selected by recording their source, the starting point and the sampling interval (for example, a
systematic sample of shipping reports selected from the shipping log for the period from April 1 to September
30, starting with report number 12345 and selecting every 125th report).
* For a procedure requiring inquiries of specific entity personnel, the auditor may record the dates of the inquiries
and the names and job designations of the entity personnel.
* For an observation procedure, the auditor may record the process or matter being observed, the relevant
individuals, their respective responsibilities, and where and when the observation was carried out.
A13. SLAuS 220 requires the auditor to review the audit work performed through review of the audit documentation.
7  The
requirement to document who reviewed the audit work performed does not imply a need for each specific working
paper to include evidence of review. The requirement, however, means documenting what audit work was reviewed,
who reviewed such work, and when it was reviewed.
Documentation of Discussions of Significant Matters with Management, Those Charged with Governance, and Others (Ref:
Para. 10)
7 SLAuS 200, paragraph 17.

<!-- page 93 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
93A
A14. The documentation is not limited to records prepared by the auditor but may include other appropriate records such
as minutes of meetings prepared by the entity’s personnel and agreed by the auditor. Others with whom the auditor
may discuss significant matters may include other personnel within the entity, and external parties, such as persons
providing professional advice to the entity.
Documentation of How Inconsistencies have been Addressed (Ref: Para. 11)
A15. The requirement to document how the auditor addressed inconsistencies in information does not imply that the
auditor needs to retain documentation that is incorrect or superseded.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities (Ref. Para. 8)
A16. The audit documentation for the audit of a smaller entity is generally less extensive than that for the audit of a larger
entity. Further, in the case of an audit where the engagement partner performs all the audit work, the documentation
will not include matters that might have to be documented  solely to inform or instruct members of an engagement
team, or to provide evidence of review by other members of the team (for example, there will be no matters to document
relating to team discussions or supervision). Nevertheless, the engagement partner complies with the overriding
requirement in paragraph 8 to prepare audit documentation that can be understood by an experienced auditor, as the
audit documentation may be subject to review by external parties for regulatory or other purposes.
A17. When preparing audit documentation, the auditor of a smaller entity may also find it helpful and efficient to record
various aspects of the audit together in a single document, with cross-references to supporting working papers as
appropriate. Examples of matters that may be documented together in the audit of a smaller entity include the
understanding of the entity and its internal control, the overall audit strategy and audit plan, materiality determined
in accordance with SLAuS 320,
8 assessed risks, significant matters noted during the audit, and conclusions reached.
Departure from a Relevant Requirement (Ref: Para. 12)
A18. The requirements of the SLAuSs are designed to enable the auditor to achieve the objectives specified in the
SLAuSs, and thereby the overall objectives of the auditor. Accordingly, other than in exceptional circumstances, the
SLAuSs call for compliance with each requirement that is relevant in the circumstances of the audit.
A19. The documentation requirement applies only to requirements that are relevant in the circumstances. A requirement is
not relevant
9 only in the cases where :
(a) The entire SLAuS is not relevant (for example, if an entity does not have an internal audit function, nothing in
SLAuS 61010 is relevant ) ; or
(b) The requirement is conditional and the condition does not exist (for example, the requirement to modify the
auditor’s opinion where there is an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, and there is no such
inability).
Matters Arising after the Date of the Auditor’ s Report (Ref: Para. 13)
A20. Examples of exceptional circumstances include facts which become known to the auditor after the date of the auditor’s
report but which existed at that date and which, if known at that date, might have caused the financial statements to
be amended or the auditor to modify the opinion in the auditor’s report.
11 The resulting changes to the audit
documentation are reviewed in accordance with the review responsibilities set out in SLAuS 220,12 with the engagement
partner taking final responsibility for the changes.
8 SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit.”
9 SLAuS 200, paragraph 22.
10 SLAuS 610, “Using the Work of Internal Auditors.”
11 SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events,” paragraph 14.
12 SLAuS 220, paragraph 16.

<!-- page 94 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
94A
Assembly of the Final Audit File (Ref: Para. 14-16)
A21. SLSQC 1 requires firms to establish policies and procedures for the timely completion of the assembly of audit files.13
An appropriate time limit within which to complete the assembly of the final audit file is ordinarily not more than 60
days after the date of the auditor’s report.14
A22. The completion of the assembly of the final audit file after the date of the auditor’s report is an administrative process
that does not involve the performance of new audit procedures or the drawing of new conclusions. Changes may,
however, be made to the audit documentation during the final assembly process if they are administrative in nature.
Examples of such changes include:
* Deleting or discarding superseded documentation.
* Sorting, collating and cross-referencing working papers.
* Signing off on completion checklists relating to the file assembly process.
* Documenting audit evidence that the auditor has obtained, discussed and agreed with the relevant members of
the engagement team before the date of the auditor’s report.
A23. SLSQC 1 requires firms to establish policies and procedures for the retention of engagement documentation.
15 The
retention period for audit engagements ordinarily is no shorter than five years from the date of the auditor’s report, or,
if later, the date of the group auditor’s report.
16
A24. An example of a circumstance in which the auditor may find it necessary to modify existing audit documentation or
add new audit documentation after file assembly has been completed is the need to clarify existing audit documentation
arising from comments received during monitoring inspections performed by internal or external parties.
Appendix
(Ref: Para. 1)
Specific Audit Documentation Requirements in Other SLAuSs
This appendix identifies paragraphs in other SLAuSs in effect for audits of financial statements for periods beginning
on or after 01 January 2014 that contain specific documentation requirements. The list is not a substitute for considering the
requirements and related application and other explanatory material in SLAuSs.
* SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements” – paragraphs 10-12
* SLAuS 220, “Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements” – paragraphs 24-25
* SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements” – paragraphs
44-47
* SLAuS 250, “Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements” – paragraph 29
* SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance” – paragraph 23
13 SLSQC 1, paragraph 45.
14 SLSQC 1, paragraph A54.
15 SLSQC 1, paragraph 47.
16 SLSQC 1, paragraph A61.

<!-- page 95 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
95A
* SLAuS 300, “Planning an Audit of Financial Statements” – paragraph 12
* SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity
and Its Environment” – paragraph 32
* SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit” – paragraph 14
* SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks” – paragraphs 28-30
* SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified During the Audit” – paragraph 15
* SLAuS 540, “Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related
Disclosures” – paragraph 23
* SLAuS 550, “Related Parties” – paragraph 28
* SLAuS 600, “Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component
Auditors)” – paragraph 50
* SLAuS 610, “Using the Work of Internal Auditors” – paragraph 13
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 240
The Auditors Responsibities Relating toFraud in an Audit od Financial Statements
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS  ........................................................................................................................................ 1
Characteristics of Fraud .................................................................................................................................... 2-3
Responsibility for the Prevention and Detection of Fraud .......................................................................... 4-8
Effective Date ..................................................................................................................................................... 9
Objectives ........................................................................................................................................................... 10
Definitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 11
Requirements
Professional Skepticism .................................................................................................................................... 12-14
Discussion among the Engagement Team  .................................................................................................... 15
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ……........................................................................... 16-24
Identification and Assessment of the Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud ………................. 25-27
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud ............................................. 28-33
Evaluation of Audit Evidence  ......................................................................................................................... 34-37
Auditor Unable to Continue the Engagement  ..................................... ........................................................ 38
Written Representations ................................................................................................................................... 39
Communications to Management and with Those Charged with Governance .........................................  40-42
Communications to Regulatory and Enforcement Authorities  ................................................................... 43
Documentation  .................................................................................................................................................. 44-47

<!-- page 96 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
96A
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Characteristics of Fraud .................................................................................................................................... A1-A6
Professional Skepticism  .................................................................................................................................... A7-A9
Discussion among the Engagement Team ..................................................................................................... A10-A11
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ................................................................................... A12-A27
Identification and Assessment of the Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud ............................. A28-A32
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud ............................................. A33-A48
Evaluation of Audit Evidence  ......................................................................................................................... A49-A53
Auditor Unable to Continue the Engagement ............................................................................................... A54-A57
Written Representations ................................................................................................................................... A58-A59
Communications to Management and with Those Charged with Governance ......................................... A60-A64
Communications to Regulatory and Enforcement Authorities .................................................................... A6 5-A67
Appendix 1: Examples of Fraud Risk Factors
Appendix 2: Examples of Possible Audit Procedures to Address the Assessed Risks of Material
Misstatement Due to Fraud
Appendix 3: Examples of Circumstances that Indicate the Possibilityof Fraud
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial
Statements” should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to fraud in an audit of
financial statements. Specifically, it expands on how SLAuS 315
1 and SLAuS 3302 are to be applied in relation to risks
of material misstatement due to fraud.
Characteristics of Fraud
2. Misstatements in the financial statements can arise from either fraud or error. The distinguishing factor between fraud
and error is whether the underlying action that results in the misstatement of the financial statements is intentional or
unintentional.
3. Although fraud is a broad legal concept, for the purposes of the SLAuSs, the auditor is concerned with fraud that
causes a material misstatement in the financial statements. Two types of intentional misstatements are relevant to the
auditor – misstatements resulting from fraudulent financial reporting and misstatements resulting from misappropriation
of assets. Although the auditor may suspect or, in rare cases, identify the occurrence of fraud, the auditor does not
make legal determinations of whether fraud has actually occurred. (Ref: Para. A1-A6)
Responsibility for the Prevention and Detection of Fraud
4. The primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance
of the entity and management. It is important that management, with the oversight of those charged with governance,
place a strong emphasis on fraud prevention, which may reduce opportunities for fraud to take place, and fraud
1 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment.”
2 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”

<!-- page 97 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
97A
deterrence, which could persuade individuals not to commit fraud because of the likelihood of detection and punishment.
This involves a commitment to creating a culture of honesty and ethical behavior which can be reinforced by an
active oversight by those charged with governance. Oversight by those charged with governance includes considering
the potential for override of controls or other inappropriate influence over the financial reporting process, such as
efforts by management to manage earnings in order to influence the perceptions of analysts as to the entity’s
performance and profitability.
Responsibilities of the Auditor
5. An auditor conducting an audit in accordance with SLAuSs is responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that
the financial statements taken as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. Owing
to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that some material misstatements of the financial
statements may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the
SLAuSs.
3
6. As described in SLAuS 200, 4 the potential effects of inherent limitations are particularly significant in the case of
misstatement resulting from fraud. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than
the risk of not detecting one resulting from error. This is because fraud may involve sophisticated and carefully
organized schemes designed to conceal it, such as forgery, deliberate failure to record transactions, or intentional
misrepresentations being made to the auditor. Such attempts at concealment may be even more difficult to detect
when accompanied by collusion. Collusion may cause the auditor to believe that audit evidence is persuasive when
it is, in fact, false. The auditor’s ability to detect a fraud depends on factors such as the skillfulness of the perpetrator,
the frequency and extent of manipulation, the degree of collusion involved, the relative size of individual amounts
manipulated, and the seniority of those individuals involved. While the auditor may be able to identify potential
opportunities for fraud to be perpetrated, it is difficult for the auditor to determine whether misstatements in judgment
areas such as accounting estimates are caused by fraud or error.
7. Furthermore, the risk of the auditor not detecting a material misstatement resulting from management fraud is greater
than for employee fraud, because management is frequently in a position to directly or indirectly manipulate accounting
records, present fraudulent financial information or override control procedures designed to prevent similar frauds by
other employees.
8. When obtaining reasonable assurance, the auditor is responsible for maintaining professional skepticism throughout
the audit, considering the potential for management override of controls and recognizing the fact that audit procedures
that are effective for detecting error may not be effective in detecting fraud. The requirements in this SLAuS are
designed to assist the auditor in identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement due to fraud and in
designing procedures to detect such misstatement.
AU
Effective Date
9. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
10. The objectives of the auditor are :
(a) To identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud;
3 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph A51.
4 SLAuS 200, paragraph A51.

<!-- page 98 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
98A
(b) To obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to
fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses; and
(c) To respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
Definitions
11. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below :
(a) Fraud – An intentional act by one or more individuals among management, those charged with governance,
employees, or third parties, involving the use of deception to obtain an unjust or illegal advantage ;
(b) Fraud risk factors – Events or conditions that indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an
opportunity to commit fraud.
Requirements
Professional Skepticism
12. In accordance with SLAuS 200, the auditor shall maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit, recognizing
the possibility that a material misstatement due to fraud could exist, notwithstanding the auditor’s past experience of
the honesty and integrity of the entity’s management and those charged with governance. (Ref: Para. A7- A8)
13. Unless the auditor has reason to believe the contrary, the auditor may accept records and documents as genuine. If
conditions identified during the audit cause the auditor to believe that a document may not be authentic or that terms
in a document have been modified but not disclosed to the auditor, the auditor shall investigate further. (Ref: Para. A9)
14. Where responses to inquiries of management or those charged with governance are inconsistent, the auditor shall
investigate the inconsistencies.
Discussion among the Engagement Team
15. SLAuS 315 requires a discussion among the engagement team members and a determination by the engagement
partner of which matters are to be communicated to those team members not involved in the discussion.
5 This
discussion shall place particular emphasis on how and where the entity’s financial statements may be susceptible to
material misstatement due to fraud, including how fraud might occur. The discussion shall occur setting aside beliefs
that the engagement team members may have that management and those charged with governance are honest and
have integrity. (Ref: Para. A10-A11)
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities
16. When performing risk assessment procedures and related activities to obtain an understanding of the entity and its
environment, including the entity’s internal control, required by SLAuS 315,
6 the auditor shall perform the procedures
in paragraphs 17-24 to obtain information for use in identifying the risks of material misstatement due to fraud.
Management and Others within the Entity
5 SLAuS 315, paragraph 10.
6 SLAuS 315, paragraphs 5-24.

<!-- page 99 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
99A
17. The auditor shall make inquiries of management regarding :
(a) Management’s assessment of the risk that the financial statements may be materially misstated due to fraud,
including the nature, extent and frequency of such assessments ; (Ref: Para. A12-A13)
(b) Management’s process for identifying and responding to the risks of fraud in the entity, including any specific
risks of fraud that management has identified or that have been brought to its attention, or classes of transactions,
account balances, or disclosures for which a risk of fraud is likely to exist ; (Ref: Para. A14)
(c) Management’s communication, if any, to those charged with governance regarding its processes for identifying
and responding to the risks of fraud in the entity ; and
(d) Management’s communication, if any, to employees regarding its views on business practices and ethical
behavior.
18. The auditor shall make inquiries of management, and others within the entity as appropriate, to determine whether
they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud affecting the entity. (Ref: Para. A15-A17)
19. For those entities that have an internal audit function, the auditor shall make inquiries of internal audit to determine
whether it has knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud affecting the entity, and to obtain its views about
the risks of fraud. (Ref: Para. A18)
Those Charged with Governance
20. Unless all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity,
7 the auditor shall obtain an
understanding of how those charged with governance exercise oversight of management’s processes for identifying
and responding to the risks of fraud in the entity and the internal control that management has established to mitigate
these risks. (Ref: Para. A19-A21)
21. Unless all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity, the auditor shall make inquiries of
those charged with governance to determine whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud
affecting the entity. These inquiries are made in part to corroborate the responses to the inquiries of management.
Unusual or Unexpected Relationships Identified
22. The auditor shall evaluate whether unusual or unexpected relationships that have been identified in performing
analytical procedures, including those related to revenue accounts, may indicate risks of material misstatement due to
fraud.
Other Information
23. The auditor shall consider whether other information obtained by the auditor indicates risks of material misstatement
due to fraud. (Ref: Para. A22)
Evaluation of Fraud Risk Factors
24. The auditor shall evaluate whether the information obtained from the other risk assessment procedures and related
activities performed indicates that one or more fraud risk factors are present. While fraud risk factors may not
7 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 13.

<!-- page 100 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
100A
necessarily indicate the existence of fraud, they have often been present in circumstances where frauds have occurred
and therefore may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud. (Ref: Para. A23-A27)
Identification and Assessment of the Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud
25. In accordance with SLAuS 315, the auditor shall identify and assess the risks of material misstatement due to fraud at
the financial statement level, and at the assertion level for classes of transactions, account balances and disclosures.8
26. When identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement due to fraud, the auditor shall, based on a
presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue recognition, evaluate which types of revenue, revenue transactions
or assertions give rise to such risks. Paragraph 47 specifies the documentation required where the auditor concludes
that the presumption is not applicable in the circumstances of the engagement and, accordingly, has not identified
revenue recognition as a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. (Ref: Para. A28-A30)
27. The auditor shall treat those assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud as significant risks and accordingly,
to the extent not already done so, the auditor shall obtain an understanding of the entity’s related controls, including
control activities, relevant to such risks. (Ref: Para. A31-A32)
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud
Overall Responses
28. In accordance with SLAuS 330, the auditor shall determine overall responses to address the assessed risks of material
misstatement due to fraud at the financial statement level.
9 (Ref: Para. A33)
29. In determining overall responses to address the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud at the financial
statement level, the auditor shall :
(a) Assign and supervise personnel taking account of the knowledge, skill and ability of the individuals to be
given significant engagement responsibilities and the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement
due to fraud for the engagement ; (Ref: Para. A34-A35)
(b) Evaluate whether the selection and application of accounting policies by the entity, particularly those related to
subjective measurements and complex transactions, may be indicative of fraudulent financial reporting resulting
from management’s effort to manage earnings ; and
(c) Incorporate an element of unpredictability in the selection of the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures.
(Ref: Para. A36)
Audit Procedures Responsive to Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud at the Assertion Level
30. In accordance with SLAuS 330, the auditor shall design and perform further audit procedures whose nature, timing
and extent are responsive to the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud at the assertion level.
10 (Ref:
Para. A37- A40)
8 SLAuS 260, paragraph 25.
9 SLAuS 330, paragraph 5.
10 SLAuS 330, paragraph 6.

<!-- page 101 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
101A
AUDITING
Audit Procedures Responsive to Risks Related to Management Override of Controls
31. Management is in a unique position to perpetrate fraud because of management’s ability to manipulate accounting
records and prepare fraudulent financial statements by overriding controls that otherwise appear to be operating
effectively. Although the level of risk of management override of controls will vary from entity to entity, the risk is
nevertheless present in all entities. Due to the unpredictable way in which such override could occur, it is a risk of
material misstatement due to fraud and thus a significant risk.
32. Irrespective of the auditor’s assessment of the risks of management override of controls, the auditor shall design and
perform audit procedures to :
(a) Test the appropriateness of journal entries recorded in the general ledger and other adjustments made in the
preparation of the financial statements. In designing and performing audit procedures for such tests, the
auditor shall :
(i) Make inquiries of individuals involved in the financial reporting process about inappropriate or unusual
activity relating to the processing of journal entries and other adjustments ;
(ii) Select journal entries and other adjustments made at the end of a reporting period ; and
(iii) Consider the need to test journal entries and other adjustments throughout the period. (Ref: Para. A41-
A44)
(b) Review accounting estimates for biases and evaluate whether the circumstances producing the bias, if any,
represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. In performing this review, the auditor shall :
(i) Evaluate whether the judgments and decisions made by management in making the accounting estimates
included in the financial statements, even if they are individually reasonable, indicate a possible bias on
the part of the entity’s management that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. If so,
the auditor shall reevaluate the accounting estimates taken as a whole ; and
(ii) Perform a retrospective review of management judgments and assumptions related to significant accounting
estimates reflected in the financial statements of the prior year. (Ref: Para. A45- A47)
(c) For significant transactions that are outside the normal course of business for the entity, or that otherwise
appear to be unusual given the auditor’s understanding of the entity and its environment and other information
obtained during the audit, the auditor shall evaluate whether the business rationale (or the lack thereof) of the
transactions suggests that they may have been entered into to engage in fraudulent financial reporting or to
conceal misappropriation of assets. (Ref: Para. A48)
33. The auditor shall determine whether, in order to respond to the identified risks of management override of controls,
the auditor needs to perform other audit procedures in addition to those specifically referred to above (that is, where
there are specific additional risks of management override that are not covered as part of the procedures performed to
address the requirements in paragraph 32).
Evaluation of Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. A49)
34. The auditor shall evaluate whether analytical procedures that are performed near the end of the audit, when forming
an overall conclusion as to whether the financial statements are consistent with the auditor’s understanding of the
entity, indicate a previously unrecognized risk of material misstatement due to fraud. (Ref: Para. A50)
35. If the auditor identifies a misstatement, the auditor shall evaluate whether such a misstatement is indicative of fraud.
If there is such an indication, the auditor shall evaluate the implications of the misstatement in relation to other
aspects of the audit, particularly the reliability of management representations, recognizing that an instance of fraud
is unlikely to be an isolated occurrence. (Ref: Para. A51)

<!-- page 102 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
102A
36. If the auditor identifies a misstatement, whether material or not, and the auditor has reason to believe that it is or may
be the result of fraud and that management (in particular, senior management) is involved, the auditor shall reevaluate
the assessment of the risks of material misstatement due to fraud and its resulting impact on the nature, timing and
extent of audit procedures to respond to the assessed risks. The auditor shall also consider whether circumstances or
conditions indicate possible collusion involving employees, management or third parties when reconsidering the
reliability of evidence previously obtained. (Ref: Para. A52)
37. If the auditor confirms that, or is unable to conclude whether, the financial statements are materially misstated as a
result of fraud the auditor shall evaluate the implications for the audit. (Ref: Para. A53)
Auditor Unable to Continue the Engagement
38. If, as a result of a misstatement resulting from fraud or suspected fraud, the auditor encounters exceptional
circumstances that bring into question the auditor’s ability to continue performing the audit, the auditor shall:
(a) Determine the professional and legal responsibilities applicable in the circumstances, including whether there
is a requirement for the auditor to report to the person or persons who made the audit appointment or, in some
cases, to regulatory authorities ;
(b) Consider whether it is appropriate to withdraw from the engagement, where withdrawal is possible under
applicable law or regulation ; and
(c) If the auditor withdraws :
(i) Discuss with the appropriate level of management and those charged with governance the auditor’s
withdrawal from the engagement and the reasons for the withdrawal ; and
(ii) Determine whether there is a professional or legal requirement to report to the person or persons who made
the audit appointment or, in some cases, to regulatory authorities, the auditor’s withdrawal from the
engagement and the reasons for the withdrawal. (Ref: Para. A54-A57)
Written Representations
39. The auditor shall obtain written representations from management and, where appropriate, those charged with
governance that:
(a) They acknowledge their responsibility for the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control to
prevent and detect fraud ;
(b) They have disclosed to the auditor the results of management’s assessment of the risk that the financial
statements may be materially misstated as a result of fraud ;
(c) They have disclosed to the auditor their knowledge of fraud or suspected fraud affecting the entity
involving :
(i) Management;
(ii) Employees who have significant roles in internal control; or
(iii) Others where the fraud could have a material effect on the financial statements; and
(d) They have disclosed to the auditor their knowledge of any allegations of fraud, or suspected fraud, affecting
the entity’s financial statements communicated by employees, former employees, analysts, regulators or others.
(Ref: Para. A58-A59)

<!-- page 103 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
103A
Communications to Management and with Those Charged with Governance
40. If the auditor has identified a fraud or has obtained information that indicates that a fraud may exist, the auditor shall
communicate these matters on a timely basis to the appropriate level of management in order to inform those with
primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud of matters relevant to their responsibilities. (Ref: Para.
A60)
41. Unless all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity, if the auditor has identified or
suspects fraud involving :
(a) management ;
(b) employees who have significant roles in internal control ; or
(c) others where the fraud results in a material misstatement in the financial statements, the auditor shall communicate
these matters to those charged with governance on a timely basis. If the auditor suspects fraud involving
management, the auditor shall communicate these suspicions to those charged with governance and discuss
with them the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures necessary to complete the audit. (Ref: Para. A61-
A63)
42. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance any other matters related to fraud that are, in the
auditor’s judgment, relevant to their responsibilities. (Ref: Para. A64)
Communications to Regulatory and Enforcement Authorities
43. If the auditor has identified or suspects a fraud, the auditor shall determine whether there is a responsibility to report
the occurrence or suspicion to a party outside the entity. Although the auditor’s professional duty to maintain the
confidentiality of client information may preclude such reporting, the auditor’s legal responsibilities may override the
duty of confidentiality in some circumstances. (Ref: Para. A65-A67)
Documentation
44. The auditor shall include the following in the audit documentation
11 of the auditor’s understanding of the entity and
its environment and the assessment of the risks of material misstatement required by SLAuS 315 :12
(a) The significant decisions reached during the discussion among the engagement team regarding the susceptibility
of the entity’s financial statements to material misstatement due to fraud ; and
(b) The identified and assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud at the financial statement level and at
the assertion level.
45. The auditor shall include the following in the audit documentation of the auditor’s responses to the assessed risks of
material misstatement required by SLAuS 330 :13
AUDITING
(a) The overall responses to the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud at the financial statement
level and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures, and the linkage of those procedures with the
assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud at the assertion level ; and
11 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.
12 SLAuS 315, paragraph 32.
13 SLAuS 330, paragraph 28.

<!-- page 104 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
104A
(b) The results of the audit procedures, including those designed to address the risk of management override of
controls.
46. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation communications about fraud made to management, those
charged with governance, regulators and others.
47. If the auditor has concluded that the presumption that there is a risk of material misstatement due to fraud related to
revenue recognition is not applicable in the circumstances of the engagement, the auditor shall include in the audit
documentation the reasons for that conclusion.
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Characteristics of Fraud (Ref: Para. 3)
A1. Fraud, whether fraudulent financial reporting or misappropriation of assets, involves incentive or pressure to commit
fraud, a perceived opportunity to do so and some rationalization of the act. For example:
* Incentive or pressure to commit fraudulent financial reporting may exist when management is under pressure,
from sources outside or inside the entity, to achieve an expected (and perhaps unrealistic) earnings target or
financial outcome – particularly since the consequences to management for failing to meet financial goals can
be significant. Similarly, individuals may have an incentive to misappropriate assets, for example, because the
individuals are living beyond their means.
* A perceived opportunity to commit fraud may exist when an individual believes internal control can be overridden,
for example, because the individual is in a position of trust or has knowledge of specific deficiencies in internal
control.
* Individuals may be able to rationalize committing a fraudulent act. Some individuals possess an attitude,
character or set of ethical values that allow them knowingly and intentionally to commit a dishonest act.
However, even otherwise honest individuals can commit fraud in an environment that imposes sufficient
pressure on them.
A2. Fraudulent financial reporting involves intentional misstatements including omissions of amounts or disclosures in
financial statements to deceive financial statement users. It can be caused by the efforts of management to manage
earnings in order to deceive financial statement users by influencing their perceptions as to the entity’s performance
and profitability. Such earnings management may start out with small actions or inappropriate adjustment of
assumptions and changes in judgments by management. Pressures and incentives may lead these actions to increase
to the extent that they result in fraudulent financial reporting. Such a situation could occur when, due to pressures to
meet market expectations or a desire to maximize compensation based on performance, management intentionally
takes positions that lead to fraudulent financial reporting by materially misstating the financial statements. In some
entities, management may be motivated to reduce earnings by a material amount to minimize tax or to inflate earnings
to secure bank financing.
A3. Fraudulent financial reporting may be accomplished by the following :
* Manipulation, falsification (including forgery), or alteration of accounting records or supporting documentation
from which the financial statements are prepared.
* Misrepresentation in, or intentional omission from, the financial statements of events, transactions or other
significant information.
* Intentional misapplication of accounting principles relating to amounts, classification, manner of presentation,
or disclosure.

<!-- page 105 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
105A
A4. Fraudulent financial reporting often involves management override of controls that otherwise may appear to be
operating effectively. Fraud can be committed by management overriding controls using such techniques as :
* Recording fictitious journal entries, particularly close to the end of an accounting period, to manipulate operating
results or achieve other objectives.
* Inappropriately adjusting assumptions and changing judgments used to estimate account balances.
* Omitting, advancing or delaying recognition in the financial statements of events and transactions that have
occurred during the reporting period.
* Concealing, or not disclosing, facts that could affect the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
* Engaging in complex transactions that are structured to misrepresent the financial position or financial
performance of the entity.
* Altering records and terms related to significant and unusual transactions.
A5. Misappropriation of assets involves the theft of an entity’s assets and is often perpetrated by employees in relatively
small and immaterial amounts. However, it can also involve management who are usually more able to disguise or
conceal misappropriations in ways that are difficult to detect. Misappropriation of assets can be accomplished in a
variety of ways including :
* Embezzling receipts (for example, misappropriating collections on accounts receivable or diverting receipts in
respect of written-off accounts to personal bank accounts).
* Stealing physical assets or intellectual property (for example, stealing inventory for personal use or for sale,
stealing scrap for resale, colluding with a competitor by disclosing technological data in return for payment).
* Causing an entity to pay for goods and services not received (for example, payments to fictitious vendors,
kickbacks paid by vendors to the entity’s purchasing agents in return for inflating prices, payments to fictitious
employees).
* Using an entity’s assets for personal use (for example, using the entity’s assets as collateral for a personal loan
or a loan to a related party).
Misappropriation of assets is often accompanied by false or misleading records or documents in order to conceal the
fact that the assets are missing or have been pledged without proper authorization.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A6. The public sector auditor’s responsibilities relating to fraud may be a result of law, regulation or other authority
applicable to public sector entities or separately covered by the auditor’s mandate. Consequently, the public sector
auditor’s responsibilities may not be limited to consideration of risks of material misstatement of the financial statements,
but may also include a broader responsibility to consider risks of fraud.
Professional Skepticism (Ref: Para. 12-14)
A7. Maintaining professional skepticism requires an ongoing questioning of whether the information and audit evidence
obtained suggests that a material misstatement due to fraud may exist. It includes considering the reliability of the
information to be used as audit evidence and the controls over its preparation and maintenance where relevant. Due
to the characteristics of fraud, the auditor’s professional skepticism is particularly important when considering the
risks of material misstatement due to fraud.

<!-- page 106 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
106A
A8. Although the auditor cannot be expected to disregard past experience of the honesty and integrity of the entity’s
management and those charged with governance, the auditor’s professional skepticism is particularly important in
considering the risks of material misstatement due to fraud because there may have been changes in circumstances.
A9. An audit performed in accordance with SLAuSs rarely involves the authentication of documents, nor is the auditor
trained as or expected to be an expert in such authentication.
14 However, when the auditor identifies conditions that
cause the auditor to believe that a document may not be authentic or that terms in a document have been modified but
not disclosed to the auditor, possible procedures to investigate further may include:
* Confirming directly with the third party.
* Using the work of an expert to assess the document’s authenticity.
Discussion among the Engagement Team (Ref: Para. 15)
A10. Discussing the susceptibility of the entity’s financial statements to material misstatement due to fraud with the
engagement team :
* Provides an opportunity for more experienced engagement team members to share their insights about how and
where the financial statements may be susceptible to material misstatement due to fraud.
* Enables the auditor to consider an appropriate response to such susceptibility and to determine which members
of the engagement team will conduct certain audit procedures.
* Permits the auditor to determine how the results of audit procedures will be shared among the engagement team
and how to deal with any allegations of fraud that may come to the auditor’s attention.
A11. The discussion may include such matters as:
* An exchange of ideas among engagement team members about how and where they believe the entity’s
financial statements may be susceptible to material misstatement due to fraud, how management could perpetrate
and conceal fraudulent financial reporting, and how assets of the entity could be misappropriated.
* A consideration of circumstances that might be indicative of earnings management and the practices that might
be followed by management to manage earnings that could lead to fraudulent financial reporting.
* A consideration of the known external and internal factors affecting the entity that may create an incentive or
pressure for management or others to commit fraud, provide the opportunity for fraud to be perpetrated, and
indicate a culture or environment that enables management or others to rationalize committing fraud.
* A consideration of management’s involvement in overseeing employees with access to cash or other assets
susceptible to misappropriation.
·AUDITING
* A consideration of any unusual or unexplained changes in behavior or lifestyle of management or employees
which have come to the attention of the engagement team.
* An emphasis on the importance of maintaining a proper state of mind throughout the audit regarding the
potential for material misstatement due to fraud.
14 SLAuS 200, paragraph A47.

<!-- page 107 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
107A
* A consideration of the types of circumstances that, if encountered, might indicate the possibility of fraud.
* A consideration of how an element of unpredictability will be incorporated into the nature, timing and extent of
the audit procedures to be performed.
* A consideration of the audit procedures that might be selected to respond to the susceptibility of the entity’s
financial statement to material misstatement due to fraud and whether certain types of audit procedures are
more effective than others.
* A consideration of any allegations of fraud that have come to the auditor’s attention.
* A consideration of the risk of management override of controls.
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities
Inquiries of Management
Management’s Assessment of the Risk of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud (Ref: Para. 17(a))
A12. Management accepts responsibility for the entity’s internal control and for the preparation of the entity’s financial
statements. Accordingly, it is appropriate for the auditor to make inquiries of management regarding management’s
own assessment of the risk of fraud and the controls in place to prevent and detect it. The nature, extent and
frequency of management’s assessment of such risk and controls may vary from entity to entity. In some entities,
management may make detailed assessments on an annual basis or as part of continuous monitoring. In other entities,
management’s assessment may be less structured and less frequent. The nature, extent and frequency of management’s
assessment are relevant to the auditor’s understanding of the entity’s control environment. For example, the fact that
management has not made an assessment of the risk of fraud may in some circumstances be indicative of the lack of
importance that management places on internal control.
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A13. In some entities, particularly smaller entities, the focus of management’s assessment may be on the risks of employee
fraud or misappropriation of assets.
Management’s Process for Identifying and Responding to the Risks of Fraud (Ref: Para. 17(b))
A14. In the case of entities with multiple locations management’s processes may include different levels of monitoring of
operating locations, or business segments. Management may also have identified particular operating locations or
business segments for which a risk of fraud may be more likely to exist.
Inquiry of Management and Others within the Entity (Ref: Para. 18)
A15. The auditor’s inquiries of management may provide useful information concerning the risks of material misstatements
in the financial statements resulting from employee fraud. However, such inquiries are unlikely to provide useful
information regarding the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements resulting from management fraud.
Making inquiries of others within the entity may provide individuals with an opportunity to convey information to
the auditor that may not otherwise be communicated.
A16. Examples of others within the entity to whom the auditor may direct inquiries about the existence or suspicion of fraud
include :
* Operating personnel not directly involved in the financial reporting process.
* Employees with different levels of authority.

<!-- page 108 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
108A
* Employees involved in initiating, processing or recording complex or unusual transactions and those who
supervise or monitor such employees.
* In-house legal counsel.
* Chief ethics officer or equivalent person.
* The person or persons charged with dealing with allegations of fraud.
A17. Management is often in the best position to perpetrate fraud. Accordingly, when evaluating management’s responses
to inquiries with an attitude of professional skepticism, the auditor may judge it necessary to corroborate responses
to inquiries with other information.
Inquiry of Internal Audit (Ref: Para. 19)
A18. SLAuS 315 and SLAuS 610 establish requirements and provide guidance in audits of those entities that have an
internal audit function.
15 In carrying out the requirements of those SLAuSs in the context of fraud, the auditor may
inquire about specific internal audit activities including, for example :
* The procedures performed, if any, by the internal auditors during the year to detect fraud.·AUDITING
* Whether management has satisfactorily responded to any findings resulting from those procedures.
Obtaining an Understanding of Oversight Exercised by Those Charged with Governance  (Ref: Para. 20)
A19. Those charged with governance of an entity oversee the entity’s systems for monitoring risk, financial control and
compliance with the law. In many countries, corporate governance practices are well developed and those charged
with governance play an active role in oversight of the entity’s assessment of the risks of fraud and of the relevant
internal control. Since the responsibilities of those charged with governance and management may vary by entity and
by country, it is important that the auditor understands their respective responsibilities to enable the auditor to obtain
an understanding of the oversight exercised by the appropriate individuals.
16
A20. An understanding of the oversight exercised by those charged with governance may provide insights regarding the
susceptibility of the entity to management fraud, the adequacy of internal control over risks of fraud, and the
competency and integrity of management. The auditor may obtain this understanding in a number of ways, such as
by attending meetings where such discussions take place, reading the minutes from such meetings or making
inquiries of those charged with governance.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A21. In some cases, all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity. This may be the case in a
small entity where a single owner manages the entity and no one else has a governance role. In these cases, there is
ordinarily no action on the part of the auditor because there is no oversight separate from management.
Consideration of Other Information (Ref: Para. 23)
A22. In addition to information obtained from applying analytical procedures, other information obtained about the entity
and its environment may be helpful in identifying the risks of material misstatement due to fraud. The discussion
among team members may provide information that is helpful in identifying such risks. In addition, information
15 SLAuS 315, paragraph 23, and SLAuS 610, “Using the Work of Internal Auditors.”
16 SLAuS 260, paragraphs A1-A8, discuss with whom the auditor communicates when the entity’s governance structure is not well
defined.

<!-- page 109 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
109A
obtained from the auditor’s client acceptance and retention processes, and experience gained on other engagements
performed for the entity, for example engagements to review interim financial information, may be relevant in the
identification of the risks of material misstatement due to fraud.
Evaluation of Fraud Risk Factors (Ref: Para. 24)
A23. The fact that fraud is usually concealed can make it very difficult to detect. Nevertheless, the auditor may identify
events or conditions that indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud
(fraud risk factors). For example :
* The need to meet expectations of third parties to obtain additional equity financing may create pressure to
commit fraud;
* The granting of significant bonuses if unrealistic profit targets are met may create an incentive to commit fraud;
and
* A control environment that is not effective may create an opportunity to commit fraud.
A24. Fraud risk factors cannot easily be ranked in order of importance. The significance of fraud risk factors varies widely.
Some of these factors will be present in entities where the specific conditions do not present risks of material
misstatement. Accordingly, the determination of whether a fraud risk factor is present and whether it is to be considered
in assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud requires the exercise of
professional judgment.
A25. Examples of fraud risk factors related to fraudulent financial reporting and misappropriation of assets are presented
in Appendix 1. These illustrative risk factors are classified based on the three conditions that are generally present
when fraud exists :
* An incentive or pressure to commit fraud;
* A perceived opportunity to commit fraud; and
* An ability to rationalize the fraudulent action.
Risk factors reflective of an attitude that permits rationalization of the fraudulent action may not be susceptible to
observation by the auditor. Nevertheless, the auditor may become aware of the existence of such information.
Although the fraud risk factors described in Appendix 1 cover a broad range of situations that may be faced by
auditors, they are only examples and other risk factors may exist.
A26. The size, complexity, and ownership characteristics of the entity have a significant influence on the consideration of
relevant fraud risk factors. For example, in the case of a large entity, there may be factors that generally constrain
improper conduct by management, such as :
* Effective oversight by those charged with governance.
* An effective internal audit function.
* The existence and enforcement of a written code of conduct.
Furthermore, fraud risk factors considered at a business segment operating level may provide different insights when
compared with those obtained when considered at an entity-wide level.

<!-- page 110 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
110A
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A27. In the case of a small entity, some or all of these considerations may be inapplicable or less relevant. For example, a
smaller entity may not have a written code of conduct but, instead, may have developed a culture that emphasizes the
importance of integrity and ethical behavior through oral communication and by management example. Domination of
management by a single individual in a small entity does not generally, in and of itself, indicate a failure by management
to display and communicate an appropriate attitude regarding internal control and the financial reporting process. In
some entities, the need for management authorization can compensate for otherwise deficient controls and reduce the
risk of employee fraud. However, domination of management by a single individual can be a potential deficiency in
internal control since there is an opportunity for management override of controls.
Identification and Assessment of the Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud
Risks of Fraud in Revenue Recognition (Ref: Para. 26)
A28. Material misstatement due to fraudulent financial reporting relating to revenue recognition often results from an
overstatement of revenues through, for example, premature revenue recognition or recording fictitious revenues. It
may result also from an understatement of revenues through, for example, improperly shifting revenues to a later
period.
A29. The risks of fraud in revenue recognition may be greater in some entities than others. For example, there may be
pressures or incentives on management to commit fraudulent financial reporting through inappropriate revenue
recognition in the case of listed entities when, for example, performance is measured in terms of year-over-year
revenue growth or profit. Similarly, for example, there may be greater risks of fraud in revenue recognition in the case
of entities that generate a substantial portion of revenues through cash sales.
A30. The presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue recognition may be rebutted. For example, the auditor may
conclude that there is no risk of material misstatement due to fraud relating to revenue recognition in the case where
there is a single type of simple revenue transaction, for example, leasehold revenue from a single unit rental property.
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud and Understanding the Entity’ s Related
Controls (Ref: Para. 27)
A31. Management may make judgments on the nature and extent of the controls it chooses to implement, and the nature
and extent of the risks it chooses to assume.
17 In determining which controls to implement to prevent and detect fraud,
management considers the risks that the financial statements may be materially misstated as a result of fraud. As part
of this consideration, management may conclude that it is not cost effective to implement and maintain a particular
control in relation to the reduction in the risks of material misstatement due to fraud to be achieved.
A32. It is therefore important for the auditor to obtain an understanding of the controls that management has designed,
implemented and maintained to prevent and detect fraud. In doing so, the auditor may learn, for example, that
management has consciously chosen to accept the risks associated with a lack of segregation of duties. Information
from obtaining this understanding may also be useful in identifying fraud risks factors that may affect the auditor’s
assessment of the risks that the financial statements may contain material misstatement due to fraud.
17 SLAuS 315, paragraph A48.

<!-- page 111 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
111A
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud
Overall Responses (Ref: Para. 28)
A33. Determining overall responses to address the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud generally includes
the consideration of how the overall conduct of the audit can reflect increased professional skepticism, for example,
through :
* Increased sensitivity in the selection of the nature and extent of documentation to be examined in support of
material transactions.
* Increased recognition of the need to corroborate management explanations or representations concerning
material matters.
It also involves more general considerations apart from the specific procedures otherwise planned; these considerations
include the matters listed in paragraph 29, which are discussed below.
Assignment and Supervision of Personnel (Ref: Para. 29(a))
A34. The auditor may respond to identified risks of material misstatement due to fraud by, for example, assigning additional
individuals with specialized skill and knowledge, such as forensic and IT experts, or by assigning more experienced
individuals to the engagement.
UDITING
A35. The extent of supervision reflects the auditor’s assessment of risks of material misstatement due to fraud and the
competencies of the engagement team members performing the work.
Unpredictability in the Selection of Audit Procedures  (Ref: Para. 29(c))
A36. Incorporating an element of unpredictability in the selection of the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures to be
performed is important as individuals within the entity who are familiar with the audit procedures normally performed
on engagements may be more able to conceal fraudulent financial reporting. This can be achieved by, for example :
* Performing substantive procedures on selected account balances and assertions not otherwise tested due to
their materiality or risk.
* Adjusting the timing of audit procedures from that otherwise expected.
* Using different sampling methods.
* Performing audit procedures at different locations or at locations on an unannounced basis.
Audit Procedures Responsive to Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud at the Assertion Level (Ref: Para. 30)
A37. The auditor’s responses to address the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud at the assertion level may
include changing the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures in the following ways:
* The nature of audit procedures to be performed may need to be changed to obtain audit evidence that is more
reliable and relevant or to obtain additional corroborative information. This may affect both the type of audit
procedures to be performed and their combination. For example:
 Physical observation or inspection of certain assets may become more important or the auditor may choose
to use computer-assisted audit techniques to gather more evidence about data contained in significant
accounts or electronic transaction files.

<!-- page 112 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
112A
 The auditor may design procedures to obtain additional corroborative information. For example, if the
auditor identifies that management is under pressure to meet earnings expectations, there may be a related
risk that management is inflating sales by entering into sales agreements that include terms that preclude
revenue recognition or by invoicing sales before delivery. In these circumstances, the auditor may, for
example, design external confirmations not only to confirm outstanding amounts, but also to confirm the
details of the sales agreements, including date, any rights of return and delivery terms. In addition, the
auditor might find it effective to supplement such external confirmations with inquiries of non-financial
personnel in the entity regarding any changes in sales agreements and delivery terms.
* The timing of substantive procedures may need to be modified. The auditor may conclude that performing
substantive testing at or near the period end better addresses an assessed risk of material misstatement due to
fraud. The auditor may conclude that, given the assessed risks of intentional misstatement or manipulation,
audit procedures to extend audit conclusions from an interim date to the period end would not be effective. In
contrast, because an intentional misstatement – for example, a misstatement involving improper revenue
recognition – may have been initiated in an interim period, the auditor may elect to apply substantive procedures
to transactions occurring earlier in or throughout the reporting period.
* The extent of the procedures applied reflects the assessment of the risks of material misstatement due to fraud.
For example, increasing sample sizes or performing analytical procedures at a more detailed level may be
appropriate. Also, computer-assisted audit techniques may enable more extensive testing of electronic
transactions and account files. Such techniques can be used to select sample transactions from key electronic
files, to sort transactions with specific characteristics, or to test an entire population instead of a sample.
A38. If the auditor identifies a risk of material misstatement due to fraud that affects inventory quantities, examining the
entity’s inventory records may help to identify locations or items that require specific attention during or after the
physical inventory count. Such a review may lead to a decision to observe inventory counts at certain locations on
an unannounced basis or to conduct inventory counts at all locations on the same date.
A39. The auditor may identify a risk of material misstatement due to fraud affecting a number of accounts and assertions.
These may include asset valuation, estimates relating to specific transactions (such as acquisitions, restructurings,
or disposals of a segment of the business), and other significant accrued liabilities (such as pension and other post-
employment benefit obligations, or environmental remediation liabilities). The risk may also relate to significant
changes in assumptions relating to recurring estimates. Information gathered through obtaining an understanding of
the entity and its environment may assist the auditor in evaluating the reasonableness of such management estimates
and underlying judgments and assumptions. A retrospective review of similar management judgments and assumptions
applied in prior periods may also provide insight about the reasonableness of judgments and assumptions supporting
management estimates.
A40. Examples of possible audit procedures to address the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, including
those that illustrate the incorporation of an element of unpredictability, are presented in Appendix 2. The appendix
includes examples of responses to the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement resulting from both
fraudulent financial reporting, including fraudulent financial reporting resulting from revenue recognition, and
misappropriation of assets.
Audit Procedures Responsive to Risks Related to Management Override of Controls
Journal Entries and Other Adjustments (Ref: Para. 32(a))
A41. Material misstatement of financial statements due to fraud often involve the manipulation of the financial reporting
process by recording inappropriate or unauthorized journal entries. This may occur throughout the year or at period
end, or by management making adjustments to amounts reported in the financial statements that are not reflected in
journal entries, such as through consolidating adjustments and reclassifications.

<!-- page 113 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
113A
A42. Further, the auditor’s consideration of the risks of material misstatement associated with inappropriate override of
controls over journal entries is important since automated processes and controls may reduce the risk of inadvertent
error but do not overcome the risk that individuals may inappropriately override such automated processes, for
example, by changing the amounts being automatically passed to the general ledger or to the financial reporting
system. Furthermore, where IT is used to transfer information automatically, there may be little or no visible evidence
of such intervention in the information systems.
A43. When identifying and selecting journal entries and other adjustments for testing and determining the appropriate
method of examining the underlying support for the items selected, the following matters are of relevance :
* The assessment of the risks of material misstatement due to fraud – the presence of fraud risk factors and
other information obtained during the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement due to fraud
may assist the auditor to identify specific classes of journal entries and other adjustments for testing.
* Controls that have been implemented over journal entries and other adjustments – effective controls over the
preparation and posting of journal entries and other adjustments may reduce the extent of substantive testing
necessary, provided that the auditor has tested the operating effectiveness of the controls.
* The entity’s financial reporting process and the nature of evidence that can be obtained – for many entities
routine processing of transactions involves a combination of manual and automated steps and procedures.
Similarly, the processing of journal entries and other adjustments may involve both manual and automated
procedures and controls. Where information technology is used in the financial reporting process, journal
entries and other adjustments may exist only in electronic form.
* The characteristics of fraudulent journal entries or other adjustments – inappropriate journal entries or other
adjustments often have unique identifying characteristics. Such characteristics may include entries (a) made
to unrelated, unusual, or seldom-used accounts, (b) made by individuals who typically do not make journal
entries, (c) recorded at the end of the period or as post-closing entries that have little or no explanation or
description, (d) made either before or during the preparation of the financial statements that do not have
account numbers, or (e) containing round numbers or consistent ending numbers.
* The nature and complexity of the accounts – inappropriate journal entries or adjustments may be applied to
accounts that (a) contain transactions that are complex or unusual in nature, (b) contain significant estimates
and period-end adjustments, (c) have been prone to misstatements in the past, (d) have not been reconciled
on a timely basis or contain unreconciled differences, (e) contain inter-company transactions, or (f) are
otherwise associated with an identified risk of material misstatement due to fraud. In audits of entities that
have several locations or components, consideration is given to the need to select journal entries from
multiple locations.
* Journal entries or other adjustments processed outside the normal course of business – non standard journal
entries may not be subject to the same level of internal control as those journal entries used on a recurring
basis to record transactions such as monthly sales, purchases and cash disbursements.
A44. The auditor uses professional judgment in determining the nature, timing and extent of testing of journal entries and
other adjustments. However, because fraudulent journal entries and other adjustments are often made at the end of a
reporting period, paragraph 32(a)(ii) requires the auditor to select the journal entries and other adjustments made at
that time. Further, because material misstatements in financial statements due to fraud can occur throughout the
period and may involve extensive efforts to conceal how the fraud is accomplished, paragraph 32(a)(iii) requires the
auditor to consider whether there is also a need to test journal entries and other adjustments throughout the period.
Accounting Estimates (Ref: Para. 32(b))
A45. The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make a number of judgments or assumptions that
affect significant accounting estimates and to monitor the reasonableness of such estimates on an ongoing basis.
Fraudulent financial reporting is often accomplished through intentional misstatement of accounting estimates. This

<!-- page 114 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
114A
may be achieved by, for example, understating or overstating all provisions or reserves in the same fashion so as to
be designed either to smooth earnings over two or more accounting periods, or to achieve a designated earnings level
in order to deceive financial statement users by influencing their perceptions as to the entity’s performance and
profitability.
A46. The purpose of performing a retrospective review of management judgments and assumptions related to significant
accounting estimates reflected in the financial statements of the prior year is to determine whether there is an
indication of a possible bias on the part of management. It is not intended to call into question the auditor’s professional
judgments made in the prior year that were based on information available at the time.
A47. A retrospective review is also required by SLAuS 540.
18 That review is conducted as a risk assessment procedure to
obtain information regarding the effectiveness of management’s prior period estimation process, audit evidence
about the outcome, or where applicable, the subsequent re-estimation of prior period accounting estimates that is
pertinent to making current period accounting estimates, and audit evidence of matters, such as estimation uncertainty,
that may be required to be disclosed in the financial statements. As a practical matter, the auditor’s review of
management judgments and assumptions for biases that could represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud
in accordance with this SLAuS may be carried out in conjunction with the review required by SLAuS 540.
Business Rationale for Significant Transactions (Ref: Para. 32(c))
A48. Indicators that may suggest that significant transactions that are outside the normal course of business for the entity,
or that otherwise appear to be unusual, may have been entered into to engage in fraudulent financial reporting or to
conceal misappropriation of assets include:
* The form of such transactions appears overly complex (for example, the transaction involves multiple entities
within a consolidated group or multiple unrelated third parties).
* Management has not discussed the nature of and accounting for such transactions with those charged with
governance of the entity, and there is inadequate documentation.
* Management is placing more emphasis on the need for a particular accounting treatment than on the underlying
economics of the transaction.
* Transactions that involve non-consolidated related parties, including special purpose entities, have not been
properly reviewed or approved by those charged with governance of the entity.
* The transactions involve previously unidentified related parties or parties that do not have the substance or
the financial strength to support the transaction without assistance from the entity under audit.
Evaluation of Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 34-37)
A49. SLAuS 330 requires the auditor, based on the audit procedures performed and the audit evidence obtained, to
evaluate whether the assessments of the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level remain appropriate.
19
This evaluation is primarily a qualitative matter based on the auditor’s judgment. Such an evaluation may provide
further insight about the risks of material misstatement due to fraud and whether there is a need to perform additional
or different audit procedures. Appendix 3 contains examples of circumstances that may indicate the possibility of
fraud.
18 SLAuS 540, “Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures,” paragraph 9.
19 SLAuS 330, paragraph 25.

<!-- page 115 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
115A
Analytical Procedures Performed Near the End of the Audit in Forming an Overall Conclusion  (Ref: Para. 34)
A50. Determining which particular trends and relationships may indicate a risk of material misstatement due to fraud
requires professional judgment. Unusual relationships involving year-end revenue and income are particularly relevant.
These might include, for example: uncharacteristically large amounts of income being reported in the last few weeks
of the reporting period or unusual transactions; or income that is inconsistent with trends in cash flow from operations.
Consideration of Identified Misstatements (Ref: Para. 35-37)
A51. Since fraud involves incentive or pressure to commit fraud, a perceived opportunity to do so or some rationalization
of the act, an instance of fraud is unlikely to be an isolated occurrence. Accordingly, misstatements, such as numerous
misstatements at a specific location even though the cumulative effect is not material, may be indicative of a risk of
material misstatement due to fraud.
A52. The implications of identified fraud depend on the circumstances. For example, an otherwise insignificant fraud may
be significant if it involves senior management. In such circumstances, the reliability of evidence previously obtained
may be called into question, since there may be doubts about the completeness and truthfulness of representations
made and about the genuineness of accounting records and documentation. There may also be a possibility of
collusion involving employees, management or third parties.
UDITING
A53. SLAuS 450
20 and SLAuS 700 21 establish requirements and provide guidance on the evaluation and disposition of
misstatements and the effect on the auditor’s opinion in the auditor’s report.
Auditor Unable to Continue the Engagement (Ref: Para. 38)
A54. Examples of exceptional circumstances that may arise and that may bring into question the auditor’s ability to
continue performing the audit include:
* The entity does not take the appropriate action regarding fraud that the auditor considers necessary in the
circumstances, even where the fraud is not material to the financial statements ;
* The auditor’s consideration of the risks of material misstatement due to fraud and the results of audit tests
indicate a significant risk of material and pervasive fraud ; or
* The auditor has significant concern about the competence or integrity of management or those charged with
governance.
A55. Because of the variety of the circumstances that may arise, it is not possible to describe definitively when withdrawal
from an engagement is appropriate. Factors that affect the auditor’s conclusion include the implications of the
involvement of a member of management or of those charged with governance (which may affect the reliability of
management representations) and the effects on the auditor of a continuing association with the entity.
A56. The auditor has professional and legal responsibilities in such circumstances and these responsibilities may vary by
country. In some countries, for example, the auditor may be entitled to, or required to, make a statement or report to the
person or persons who made the audit appointment or, in some cases, to regulatory authorities. Given the exceptional
nature of the circumstances and the need to consider the legal requirements, the auditor may consider it appropriate
to seek legal advice when deciding whether to withdraw from an engagement and in determining an appropriate
course of action, including the possibility of reporting to shareholders, regulators or others.
22
20 SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit.”
21 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements.”
22 The ICASL’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants provides guidance on communications with an auditor replacing the existing
auditor.

<!-- page 116 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
116A
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A57. In many cases in the public sector, the option of withdrawing from the engagement may not be available to the auditor
due to the nature of the mandate or public interest considerations.
Written Representations (Ref: Para. 39)
A58. SLAuS 580
23 establishes requirements and provides guidance on obtaining appropriate representations from
management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance in the audit. In addition to acknowledging that
they have fulfilled their responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements, it is important that, irrespective
of the size of the entity, management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance acknowledge their
responsibility for internal control designed, implemented and maintained to prevent and detect fraud.
A59. Because of the nature of fraud and the difficulties encountered by auditors in detecting material misstatements in the
financial statements resulting from fraud, it is important that the auditor obtain a written representation from management
and, where appropriate, those charged with governance confirming that they have disclosed to the auditor:
(a) The results of management’s assessment of the risk that the financial statements may be materially misstated as
a result of fraud; and
(b) Their knowledge of actual, suspected or alleged fraud affecting the entity.
Communications to Management and with Those Charged with Governance
Communication to Management (Ref: Para. 40)
A60. When the auditor has obtained evidence that fraud exists or may exist, it is important that the matter be brought to the
attention of the appropriate level of management as soon as practicable. This is so even if the matter might be
considered inconsequential (for example, a minor defalcation by an employee at a low level in the entity’s organization).
The determination of which level of management is the appropriate one is a matter of professional judgment and is
affected by such factors as the likelihood of collusion and the nature and magnitude of the suspected fraud. Ordinarily,
the appropriate level of management is at least one level above the persons who appear to be involved with the
suspected fraud.
Communication with Those Charged with Governance  (Ref: Para. 41)
A61. The auditor’s communication with those charged with governance may be made orally or in writing. SLAuS 260
identifies factors the auditor considers in determining whether to communicate orally or in writing.
24 Due to the nature
and sensitivity of fraud involving senior management, or fraud that results in a material misstatement in the financial
statements, the auditor reports such matters on a timely basis and may consider it necessary to also report such
matters in writing.
A62. In some cases, the auditor may consider it appropriate to communicate with those charged with governance when the
auditor becomes aware of fraud involving employees other than management that does not result in a material
misstatement. Similarly, those charged with governance may wish to be informed of such circumstances. The
communication process is assisted if the auditor and those charged with governance agree at an early stage in the
audit about the nature and extent of the auditor’s communications in this regard.
23 SLAuS 580, “Written Representations."
24 SLAuS 260, paragraph A38.

<!-- page 117 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
117A
 A63. In the exceptional circumstances where the auditor has doubts about the integrity or honesty of management or those
charged with governance, the auditor may consider it appropriate to obtain legal advice to assist in determining the
appropriate course of action.
Other Matters Related to Fraud (Ref: Para. 42)
A64. Other matters related to fraud to be discussed with those charged with governance of the entity may include, for
example :
* Concerns about the nature, extent and frequency of management’s assessments of the controls in place to
prevent and detect fraud and of the risk that the financial statements may be misstated.
* A failure by management to appropriately address identified significant deficiencies in internal control, or to
appropriately respond to an identified fraud.
* The auditor’s evaluation of the entity’s control environment, including questions regarding the competence
and integrity of management.
* Actions by management that may be indicative of fraudulent financial reporting, such as management’s selection
and application of accounting policies that may be indicative of management’s effort to manage earnings in
order to deceive financial statement users by influencing their perceptions as to the entity’s performance and
profitability.
* Concerns about the adequacy and completeness of the authorization of transactions that appear to be outside
the normal course of business.
Communications to Regulatory and Enforcement Authorities (Ref: Para. 43)
A65. The auditor’s professional duty to maintain the confidentiality of client information may preclude reporting fraud to
a party outside the client entity. However, the auditor’s legal responsibilities vary by country and, in certain
circumstances, the duty of confidentiality may be overridden by statute, the law or courts of law. In some countries,
the auditor of a financial institution has a statutory duty to report the occurrence of fraud to supervisory authorities.
Also, in some countries the auditor has a duty to report misstatements to authorities in those cases where management
and those charged with governance fail to take corrective action.
A66. The auditor may consider it appropriate to obtain legal advice to determine the appropriate course of action in the
circumstances, the purpose of which is to ascertain the steps necessary in considering the public interest aspects of
identified fraud.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A67. In the public sector, requirements for reporting fraud, whether or not discovered through the audit process, may be
subject to specific provisions of the audit mandate or related law, regulation or other authority.
Appendix 1
(Ref: Para. A25)
Examples of Fraud Risk Factors
The fraud risk factors identified in this Appendix are examples of such factors that may be faced by auditors in a
broad range of situations. Separately presented are examples relating to the two types of fraud relevant to the auditor’s
consideration – that is, fraudulent financial reporting and misappropriation of assets. For each of these types of fraud, the
risk factors are further classified based on the three conditions generally present when material misstatements due to fraud

<!-- page 118 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
118A
occur: (a) incentives/pressures, (b) opportunities, and (c) attitudes/rationalizations. Although the risk factors cover a broad
range of situations, they are only examples and, accordingly, the auditor may identify additional or different risk factors. Not
all of these examples are relevant in all circumstances, and some may be of greater or lesser significance in entities of different
size or with different ownership characteristics or circumstances. Also, the order of the examples of risk factors provided is
not intended to reflect their relative importance or frequency of occurrence.
Risk Factors Relating to Misstatements Arising from Fraudulent Financial Reporting
The following are examples of risk factors relating to misstatements arising from fraudulent financial reporting.
Incentives/Pressures
Financial stability or profitability is threatened by economic, industry, or entity operating conditions, such as (or as
indicated by) :
*  High degree of competition or market saturation, accompanied by declining margins.
* High vulnerability to rapid changes, such as changes in technology, product obsolescence, or interest rates.
* Significant declines in customer demand and increasing business failures in either the industry or overall
economy.
* Operating losses making the threat of bankruptcy, foreclosure, or hostile takeover imminent.
* Recurring negative cash flows from operations or an inability to generate cash flows from operations while
reporting earnings and earnings growth.
* Rapid growth or unusual profitability especially compared to that of other companies in the same industry.
* New accounting, statutory, or regulatory requirements.
Excessive pressure exists for management to meet the requirements or expectations of third parties due to the
following :
* Profitability or trend level expectations of investment analysts, institutional investors, significant creditors, or
other external parties (particularly expectations that are unduly aggressive or unrealistic), including expectations
created by management in, for example, overly optimistic press releases or annual report messages.
* Need to obtain additional debt or equity financing to stay competitive – including financing of major research
and development or capital expenditures.
* Marginal ability to meet exchange listing requirements or debt repayment or other debt covenant requirements.
* Perceived or real adverse effects of reporting poor financial results on significant pending transactions, such as
business combinations or contract awards.
Information available indicates that the personal financial situation of management or those charged with governance
is threatened by the entity’s financial performance arising from the following:
* Significant financial interests in the entity.

<!-- page 119 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
119A
* Significant portions of their compensation (for example, bonuses, stock options, and earn-out arrangements)
being contingent upon achieving aggressive targets for stock price, operating results, financial position, or
cash flow.
25
* Personal guarantees of debts of the entity.
There is excessive pressure on management or operating personnel to meet financial targets established by those
charged with governance, including sales or profitability incentive goals.
Opportunities
The nature of the industry or the entity’s operations provides opportunities to engage in fraudulent financial
reporting that can arise from the following :
* Significant related-party transactions not in the ordinary course of business or with related entities not audited
or audited by another firm.
* A strong financial presence or ability to dominate a certain industry sector that allows the entity to dictate terms
or conditions to suppliers or customers that may result in inappropriate or non-arm’s-length transactions.
·AUDITING
* Assets, liabilities, revenues, or expenses based on significant estimates that involve subjective judgments or
uncertainties that are difficult to corroborate.
* Significant, unusual, or highly complex transactions, especially those close to period end that pose difficult
“substance over form” questions.
* Significant operations located or conducted across international borders in jurisdictions where differing business
environments and cultures exist.
* Use of business intermediaries for which there appears to be no clear business justification.
* Significant bank accounts or subsidiary or branch operations in tax-haven jurisdictions for which there appears
to be no clear business justification.
The monitoring of management is not effective as a result of the following :
* Domination of management by a single person or small group (in a non owner-managed business) without
compensating controls.
* Oversight by those charged with governance over the financial reporting process and internal control is not
effective.
There is a complex or unstable organizational structure, as evidenced by the following :
* Difficulty in determining the organization or individuals that have controlling interest in the entity.
* Overly complex organizational structure involving unusual legal entities or managerial lines of authority.
* High turnover of senior management, legal counsel, or those charged with governance.
25 Management incentive plans may be contingent upon achieving targets relating only to certain accounts or selected activities of  the
entity, even though the related accounts or activities may not be material to the entity as a whole.

<!-- page 120 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
120A
Internal control components are deficient as a result of the following :
* Inadequate monitoring of controls, including automated controls and controls over interim financial reporting
(where external reporting is required).
* High turnover rates or employment of accounting, internal audit, or information technology staff that are not
effective.
* Accounting and information systems that are not effective, including situations involving significant deficiencies
in internal control.
Attitudes/Rationalizations
* Communication, implementation, support, or enforcement of the entity’s values or ethical standards by management,
or the communication of inappropriate values or ethical standards, that are not effective.
* Non-financial management’s excessive participation in or preoccupation with the selection of accounting policies or
the determination of significant estimates.
* Known history of violations of securities laws or other laws and regulations, or claims against the entity, its senior
management, or those charged with governance alleging fraud or violations of laws and regulations.
* Excessive interest by management in maintaining or increasing the entity’s stock price or earnings trend.
* The practice by management of committing to analysts, creditors, and other third parties to achieve aggressive or
unrealistic forecasts.
* Management failing to remedy known significant deficiencies in internal control on a timely basis.
* An interest by management in employing inappropriate means to minimize reported earnings for tax-motivated reasons.
* Low morale among senior management.
* The owner-manager makes no distinction between personal and business transactions.
* Dispute between shareholders in a closely held entity.
* Recurring attempts by management to justify marginal or inappropriate accounting on the basis of materiality.
* The relationship between management and the current or predecessor auditor is strained, as exhibited by the
following :
 Frequent disputes with the current or predecessor auditor on accounting, auditing, or reporting matters.
 Unreasonable demands on the auditor, such as unrealistic time constraints regarding the completion of the audit
or the issuance of the auditor’s report.
 Restrictions on the auditor that inappropriately limit access to people or information or the ability to communicate
effectively with those charged with governance.
 Domineering management behavior in dealing with the auditor, especially involving attempts to influence the
scope of the auditor’s work or the selection or continuance of personnel assigned to or consulted on the audit
engagement.

<!-- page 121 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
121A
Risk Factors Arising from Misstatements Arising from Misappropriation of Assets
Risk factors that relate to misstatements arising from misappropriation of assets are also classified according to the
three conditions generally present when fraud exists: incentives/pressures, opportunities, and attitudes/rationalization.
Some of the risk factors related to misstatements arising from fraudulent financial reporting also may be present when
misstatements arising from misappropriation of assets occur. For example, ineffective monitoring of management and other
deficiencies in internal control may be present when misstatements due to either fraudulent financial reporting or
misappropriation of assets exist. The following are examples of risk factors related to misstatements arising from
misappropriation of assets.
Incentives/Pressures
Personal financial obligations may create pressure on management or employees with access to cash or other assets
susceptible to theft to misappropriate those assets.
Adverse relationships between the entity and employees with access to cash or other assets susceptible to theft
may motivate those employees to misappropriate those assets. For example, adverse relationships may be created by the
following:
* Known or anticipated future employee layoffs.
* Recent or anticipated changes to employee compensation or benefit plans.
* Promotions, compensation, or other rewards inconsistent with expectations.
Opportunities
Certain characteristics or circumstances may increase the susceptibility of assets to misappropriation. For example,
opportunities to misappropriate assets increase when there are the following:
* Large amounts of cash on hand or processed.
* Inventory items that are small in size, of high value, or in high demand.
* Easily convertible assets, such as bearer bonds, diamonds, or computer chips.
* Fixed assets which are small in size, marketable, or lacking observable identification of ownership.
Inadequate internal control over assets may increase the susceptibility of misappropriation of those assets. For
example, misappropriation of assets may occur because there is the following:
* Inadequate segregation of duties or independent checks.
* Inadequate oversight of senior management expenditures, such as travel and other reimbursements.
* Inadequate management oversight of employees responsible for assets, for example, inadequate supervision or
monitoring of remote locations.
* Inadequate job applicant screening of employees with access to assets.
* Inadequate record keeping with respect to assets.
* Inadequate system of authorization and approval of transactions (for example, in purchasing).

<!-- page 122 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
122A
* Inadequate physical safeguards over cash, investments, inventory, or fixed assets.
* Lack of complete and timely reconciliations of assets.
* Lack of timely and appropriate documentation of transactions, for example, credits for merchandise returns.
* Lack of mandatory vacations for employees performing key control functions.
* Inadequate management understanding of information technology, which enables information technology
employees to perpetrate a misappropriation.
* Inadequate access controls over automated records, including controls over and review of computer systems
event logs.
Attitudes/Rationalizations
* Disregard for the need for monitoring or reducing risks related to misappropriations of assets.
* Disregard for internal control over misappropriation of assets by overriding existing controls or by failing to take
appropriate remedial action on known deficiencies in internal control.
* Behavior indicating displeasure or dissatisfaction with the entity or its treatment of the employee.
* Changes in behavior or lifestyle that may indicate assets have been misappropriated.
* Tolerance of petty theft.
Appendix 2
(Ref: Para. A40)
Examples of Possible Audit Procedures to Address the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement Due to Fraud
The following are examples of possible audit procedures to address the assessed risks of material misstatement due
to fraud resulting from both fraudulent financial reporting and misappropriation of assets. Although these procedures cover
a broad range of situations, they are only examples and, accordingly they may not be the most appropriate nor necessary in
each circumstance. Also the order of the procedures provided is not intended to reflect their relative importance.
Consideration at the Assertion Level
Specific responses to the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement due to fraud will vary depending
upon the types or combinations of fraud risk factors or conditions identified, and the classes of transactions, account
balances, disclosures and assertions they may affect.
The following are specific examples of responses :
* Visiting locations or performing certain tests on a surprise or unannounced basis. For example, observing
inventory at locations where auditor attendance has not been previously announced or counting cash at a
particular date on a surprise basis.
* Requesting that inventories be counted at the end of the reporting period or on a date closer to period end to
minimize the risk of manipulation of balances in the period between the date of completion of the count and the
end of the reporting period.

<!-- page 123 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
123A
* Altering the audit approach in the current year. For example, contacting major customers and suppliers orally in
addition to sending written confirmation, sending confirmation requests to a specific party within an organization,
or seeking more or different information.
* Performing a detailed review of the entity’s quarter-end or year-end adjusting entries and investigating any that
appear unusual as to nature or amount.
* For significant and unusual transactions, particularly those occurring at or near year-end, investigating the
possibility of related parties and the sources of financial resources supporting the transactions.
* Performing substantive analytical procedures using disaggregated data. For example, comparing sales and cost
of sales by location, line of business or month to expectations developed by the auditor.
* Conducting interviews of personnel involved in areas where a risk of material misstatement due to fraud has
been identified, to obtain their insights about the risk and whether, or how, controls address the risk.
* When other independent auditors are auditing the financial statements of one or more subsidiaries, divisions
or branches, discussing with them the extent of work necessary to be performed to address the assessed risk of
material misstatement due to fraud resulting from transactions and activities among these components.
* If the work of an expert becomes particularly significant with respect to a financial statement item for which the
assessed risk of misstatement due to fraud is high, performing additional procedures relating to some or all of
the expert’s assumptions, methods or findings to determine that the findings are not unreasonable, or engaging
another expert for that purpose.
* Performing audit procedures to analyze selected opening balance sheet accounts of previously audited financial
statements to assess how certain issues involving accounting estimates and judgments, for example, an allowance
for sales returns, were resolved with the benefit of hindsight.
* Performing procedures on account or other reconciliations prepared by the entity, including considering
reconciliations performed at interim periods.
* Performing computer-assisted techniques, such as data mining to test for anomalies in a population.
* Testing the integrity of computer-produced records and transactions.
* Seeking additional audit evidence from sources outside of the entity being audited.
Specific Responses—Misstatement Resulting from Fraudulent Financial Reporting
Examples of responses to the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement due to fraudulent financial
reporting are as follows:
Revenue Recognition
* Performing substantive analytical procedures relating to revenue using disaggregated data, for example, comparing
revenue reported by month and by product line or business segment during the current reporting period with
comparable prior periods. Computer-assisted audit techniques may be useful in identifying unusual or unexpected
revenue relationships or transactions.
* Confirming with customers certain relevant contract terms and the absence of side agreements, because the appropriate
accounting often is influenced by such terms or agreements and basis for rebates or the period to which they relate
are often poorly documented. For example, acceptance criteria, delivery and payment terms, the absence of future or

<!-- page 124 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
124A
continuing vendor obligations, the right to return the product, guaranteed resale amounts, and cancellation or refund
provisions often are relevant in such circumstances.
* Inquiring of the entity’s sales and marketing personnel or in-house legal counsel regarding sales or shipments near
the end of the period and their knowledge of any unusual terms or conditions associated with these transactions.
* Being physically present at one or more locations at period end to observe goods being shipped or being readied for
shipment (or returns awaiting processing) and performing other appropriate sales and inventory cutoff procedures.
* For those situations for which revenue transactions are electronically initiated, processed, and recorded, testing
controls to determine whether they provide assurance that recorded revenue transactions occurred and are properly
recorded.
Inventory Quantities
* Examining the entity’s inventory records to identify locations or items that require specific attention during or after
the physical inventory count.
* Observing inventory counts at certain locations on an unannounced basis or conducting inventory counts at all
locations on the same date.
* Conducting inventory counts at or near the end of the reporting period to minimize the risk of inappropriate manipulation
during the period between the count and the end of the reporting period.
* Performing additional procedures during the observation of the count, for example, more rigorously examining the
contents of boxed items, the manner in which the goods are stacked (for example, hollow squares) or labeled, and the
quality (that is, purity, grade, or concentration) of liquid substances such as perfumes or specialty chemicals. Using
the work of an expert may be helpful in this regard.
* Comparing the quantities for the current period with prior periods by class or category of inventory, location or other
criteria, or comparison of quantities counted with perpetual records.
* Using computer-assisted audit techniques to further test the compilation of the physical inventory counts – for
example, sorting by tag number to test tag controls or by item serial number to test the possibility of item omission or
duplication.
Management Estimates
* Using an expert to develop an independent estimate for comparison to management’s estimate.
* Extending inquiries to individuals outside of management and the accounting department to corroborate management’s
ability and intent to carry out plans that are relevant to developing the estimate.
Specific Responses—Misstatements Due to Misappropriation of Assets
Differing circumstances would necessarily dictate different responses. Ordinarily, the audit response to an assessed
risk of material misstatement due to fraud relating to misappropriation of assets will be directed toward certain account
balances and classes of transactions. Although some of the audit responses noted in the two categories above may apply

<!-- page 125 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
125A
in such circumstances, the scope of the work is to be linked to the specific information about the misappropriation risk that
has been identified. Examples of responses to the auditor’s assessment of the risk of material misstatements due to
misappropriation of assets are as follows :
* Counting cash or securities at or near year-end.
* Confirming directly with customers the account activity (including credit memo and sales return activity as well
as dates payments were made) for the period under audit.
* Analyzing recoveries of written-off accounts.
* Analyzing inventory shortages by location or product type.
* Comparing key inventory ratios to industry norm.
* Reviewing supporting documentation for reductions to the perpetual inventory records.
* Performing a computerized match of the vendor list with a list of employees to identify matches of addresses or
phone numbers.
* Performing a computerized search of payroll records to identify duplicate addresses, employee identification or
taxing authority numbers or bank accounts.
* Reviewing personnel files for those that contain little or no evidence of activity, for example, lack of performance
evaluations.
* Analyzing sales discounts and returns for unusual patterns or trends.
* Confirming specific terms of contracts with third parties.
* Obtaining evidence that contracts are being carried out in accordance with their terms.
* Reviewing the propriety of large and unusual expenses.
* Reviewing the authorization and carrying value of senior management and related party loans.
* Reviewing the level and propriety of expense reports submitted by senior management.
Appendix 3
(Ref: Para. A49)
Examples of Circumstances that Indicate the Possibility of Fraud
The following are examples of circumstances that may indicate the possibility that the financial statements may
contain a material misstatement resulting from fraud.
Discrepancies in the accounting records, including :
* Transactions that are not recorded in a complete or timely manner or are improperly recorded as to amount, accounting
period, classification, or entity policy.
* Unsupported or unauthorized balances or transactions.

<!-- page 126 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
126A
* Last-minute adjustments that significantly affect financial results.
* Evidence of employees’ access to systems and records inconsistent with that necessary to perform their authorized
duties.
* Tips or complaints to the auditor about alleged fraud.
Conflicting or missing evidence, including :
* Missing documents.
* Documents that appear to have been altered.
* Unavailability of other than photocopied or electronically transmitted documents when documents in original form
are expected to exist.
* Significant unexplained items on reconciliations.
* Unusual balance sheet changes, or changes in trends or important financial statement ratios or relationships – for
example, receivables growing faster than revenues.
* Inconsistent, vague, or implausible responses from management or employees arising from inquiries or analytical
procedures.
* Unusual discrepancies between the entity’s records and confirmation replies.
* Large numbers of credit entries and other adjustments made to accounts receivable records.
* Unexplained or inadequately explained differences between the accounts receivable sub-ledger and the control
account, or between the customer statements and the accounts receivable sub-ledger.
* Missing or non-existent cancelled checks in circumstances where cancelled checks are ordinarily returned to the
entity with the bank statement.
* Missing inventory or physical assets of significant magnitude.
* Unavailable or missing electronic evidence, inconsistent with the entity’s record retention practices or policies.
* Fewer responses to confirmations than anticipated or a greater number of responses than anticipated.
* Inability to produce evidence of key systems development and program change testing and implementation activities
for current-year system changes and deployments.
Problematic or unusual relationships between the auditor and management, including :
* Denial of access to records, facilities, certain employees, customers, vendors, or others from whom audit evidence
might be sought.
* Undue time pressures imposed by management to resolve complex or contentious issues.
* Complaints by management about the conduct of the audit or management intimidation of engagement team members,
particularly in connection with the auditor’s critical assessment of audit evidence or in the resolution of potential
disagreements with management.

<!-- page 127 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
127A
* Unusual delays by the entity in providing requested information.
* Unwillingness to facilitate auditor access to key electronic files for testing through the use of computer-assisted
audit techniques.
* Denial of access to key IT operations staff and facilities, including security, operations, and systems development
personnel.
* An unwillingness to add or revise disclosures in the financial statements to make them more complete and
understandable.
* An unwillingness to address identified deficiencies in internal control on a timely basis.
Other
* Unwillingness by management to permit the auditor to meet privately with those charged with governance.
* Accounting policies that appear to be at variance with industry norms.
* Frequent changes in accounting estimates that do not appear to result from changed circumstances.
* Tolerance of violations of the entity’s code of conduct.
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 250
Considaration of Laws  and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS  ........................................................................................................................................ 1
Effect of Laws and Regulations  ...................................................................................................................... 2
Responsibility for Compliance with Laws and Regulations ......................................................................... 3-8
Effective Date ..................................................................................................................................................... 9
Objectives ........................................................................................................................................................... 10
Definition  ........................................................................................................................................................... 11
Requirements
The Auditor’s Consideration of Compliance with Laws and  Regulations  …………………………….... 12-17
Audit Procedures When Non-Compliance is Identified or  Suspected ……………………………….......  18-21
Reporting of Identified or Suspected Non-Compliance  ............................................................................... 22-28
Documentation  ................................................................................................................................................... 29
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Responsibility for Compliance with Laws and Regulations ......................................................................... A1-A6
The Auditor’s Consideration of Compliance with Laws and  Regulations ………………………………. A7-A12
Audit Procedures When Non-Compliance is Identified or  Suspected  ……...………………………….. A13-A18
Reporting of Identified or Suspected Non-Compliance ............................................................................... A19-A20
Documentation ................................................................................................................................................... A21

<!-- page 128 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
128A
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 250, “Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements”
should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200 “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an
Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to consider laws and regulations in
an audit of financial statements. This SLAuS does not apply to other assurance engagements in which the auditor is
specifically engaged to test and report separately on compliance with specific laws or regulations.
Effect of Laws and Regulations
2. The effect on financial statements of laws and regulations varies considerably. Those laws and regulations to which
an entity is subject constitute the legal and regulatory framework. The provisions of some laws or regulations have
a direct effect on the financial statements in that they determine the reported amounts and disclosures in an entity’s
financial statements. Other laws or regulations are to be complied with by management or set the provisions under
which the entity is allowed to conduct its business but do not have a direct effect on an entity’s financial statements.
Some entities operate in heavily regulated industries (such as banks and chemical companies). Others are subject
only to the many laws and regulations that relate generally to the operating aspects of the business (such as those
related to occupational safety and health, and equal employment opportunity). Non-compliance with laws and
regulations may result in fines, litigation or other consequences for the entity that may have a material effect on the
financial statements.
Responsibility for Compliance with Laws and Regulations (Ref: Para. A1-A6)
3. It is the responsibility of management, with the oversight of those charged with governance, to ensure that the
entity’s operations are conducted in accordance with the provisions of laws and regulations, including compliance
with the provisions of laws and regulations that determine the reported amounts and disclosures in an entity’s
financial statements.
Responsibility of the Auditor
4. The requirements in this SLAuS are designed to assist the auditor in identifying material misstatement of the financial
statements due to non-compliance with laws and regulations. However, the auditor is not responsible for preventing
non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
5. The auditor is responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
1 In conducting an audit of financial statements, the
auditor takes into account the applicable legal and regulatory framework. Owing to the inherent limitations of an
audit, there is an unavoidable risk that some material misstatements in the financial statements may not be detected,
even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the SLAuSs.
2 In the context of laws and
regulations, the potential effects of inherent limitations on the auditor’s ability to detect material misstatements are
greater for such reasons as the following :
* There are many laws and regulations, relating principally to the operating aspects of an entity, that typically do
not affect the financial statements and are not captured by the entity’s information systems relevant to financial
reporting.
1 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph 5.
2 SLAuS 200, paragraph A51.

<!-- page 129 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
129A
* Non-compliance may involve conduct designed to conceal it, such as collusion, forgery, deliberate failure to
record transactions, management override of controls or intentional misrepresentations being made to the
auditor.
* Whether an act constitutes non-compliance is ultimately a matter for legal determination by a court of law.
Ordinarily, the further removed non-compliance is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements,
the less likely the auditor is to become aware of it or to recognize the non-compliance.
6. This SLAuS distinguishes the auditor’s responsibilities in relation to compliance with two different categories of laws
and regulations as follows:
(a) The provisions of those laws and regulations generally recognized to have a direct effect on the determination
of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements such as tax and pension laws and regulations
(see paragraph 13) ; and
(b) Other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements, but compliance with which may be fundamental to the operating aspects of the
business, to an entity’s ability to continue its business, or to avoid material penalties (for example, compliance
with the terms of an operating license, compliance with regulatory solvency requirements, or compliance with
environmental regulations); non-compliance with such laws and regulations may therefore have a material
effect on the financial statements (see paragraph 14).
ITING
7. In this SLAuS, differing requirements are specified for each of the above categories of laws and regulations. For the
category referred to in paragraph 6(a), the auditor’s responsibility is to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence
regarding compliance with the provisions of those laws and regulations. For the category referred to in paragraph
6(b), the auditor’s responsibility is limited to undertaking specified audit procedures to help identify non-compliance
with those laws and regulations that may have a material effect on the financial statements.
8. The auditor is required by this SLAuS to remain alert to the possibility that other audit procedures applied for the
purpose of forming an opinion on financial statements may bring instances of identified or suspected non-compliance
to the auditor’s attention. Maintaining professional skepticism throughout the audit, as required by SLAuS 200,
3 is
important in this context, given the extent of laws and regulations that affect the entity.
Effective Date
9. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
10. The objectives of the auditor are:
(a) To obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding compliance with the provisions of those laws and
regulations generally recognized to have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements ;
(b) To perform specified audit procedures to help identify instances of non-compliance with other laws and
regulations that may have a material effect on the financial statements ; and
(c) To respond appropriately to non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations identified
during the audit.
3 SLAuS 200, paragraph 15.

<!-- page 130 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
130A
Definition
11. For the purposes of this SLAuS, the following term has the meaning attributed below:
Non-compliance .—  Acts of omission or commission by the entity, either intentional or unintentional, which are
contrary to the prevailing laws or regulations. Such acts include transactions entered into by, or in the name of, the
entity, or on its behalf, by those charged with governance, management or employees. Non-compliance does not
include personal misconduct (unrelated to the business activities of the entity) by those charged with governance,
management or employees of the entity.
Requirements
The Auditor’s Consideration of Compliance with Laws and Regulations
12. As part of obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment in accordance with SLAuS 315,
4 the auditor
shall obtain a general understanding of :
(a) The legal and regulatory framework applicable to the entity and the industry or sector in which the entity
operates ; and
(b) How the entity is complying with that framework. (Ref: Para. A7)
13. The auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding compliance with the provisions of those laws
and regulations generally recognized to have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements. (Ref: Para. A8)
14. The auditor shall perform the following audit procedures to help identify instances of non-compliance with other laws
and regulations that may have a material effect on the financial statements : (Ref: Para. A9-A10)
(a) Inquiring of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance, as to whether the entity is in
compliance with such laws and regulations ; and
 (b) Inspecting correspondence, if any, with the relevant licensing or regulatory authorities.
15. During the audit, the auditor shall remain alert to the possibility that other audit procedures applied may bring
instances of non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations to the auditor’s attention. (Ref:
Para. A11)
16. The auditor shall request management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance to provide written
representations that all known instances of non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations
whose effects should be considered when preparing financial statements have been disclosed to the auditor. (Ref:
Para. A12)
17. In the absence of identified or suspected non-compliance, the auditor is not required to perform audit procedures
regarding the entity’s compliance with laws and regulations, other than those set out in paragraphs 12-16.
4 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment,”
paragraph 11.

<!-- page 131 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
131A
Audit Procedures When Non-Compliance Is Identified or Suspected
18. If the auditor becomes aware of information concerning an instance of non-compliance or suspected non-compliance
with laws and regulations, the auditor shall obtain : (Ref: Para. A13)
(a) An understanding of the nature of the act and the circumstances in which it has occurred ; and
(b) Further information to evaluate the possible effect on the financial statements. (Ref: Para. A14)
19. If the auditor suspects there may be non-compliance, the auditor shall discuss the matter with management and,
where appropriate, those charged with governance. If management or, as appropriate, those charged with governance
do not provide sufficient information that supports that the entity is in compliance with laws and regulations and, in
the auditor’s judgment, the effect of the suspected non-compliance may be material to the financial statements, the
auditor shall consider the need to obtain legal advice. (Ref: Para. A15-A16)
20. If sufficient information about suspected non-compliance cannot be obtained, the auditor shall evaluate the effect of
the lack of sufficient appropriate audit evidence on the auditor’s opinion.
21. The auditor shall evaluate the implications of non-compliance in relation to other aspects of the audit, including the
auditor’s risk assessment and the reliability of written representations, and take appropriate action. (Ref: Para. A17-
A18)
Reporting of Identified or Suspected Non-Compliance
Reporting Non-Compliance to Those Charged with Governance
22. Unless all of those charged with governance are involved in management of the entity, and therefore are aware of
matters involving identified or suspected non-compliance already communicated by the auditor,
5 the auditor shall
communicate with those charged with governance matters involving non-compliance with laws and regulations that
come to the auditor’s attention during the course of the audit, other than when the matters are clearly inconsequential.
23. If, in the auditor’s judgment, the non-compliance referred to in paragraph 22 is believed to be intentional and material,
the auditor shall communicate the matter to those charged with governance as soon as practicable.
24. If the auditor suspects that management or those charged with governance are involved in non-compliance, the
auditor shall communicate the matter to the next higher level of authority at the entity, if it exists, such as an audit
committee or supervisory board. Where no higher authority exists, or if the auditor believes that the communication
may not be acted upon or is unsure as to the person to whom to report, the auditor shall consider the need to obtain
legal advice.
Reporting Non-Compliance in the Auditor’ s Report on the Financial Statements
25. If the auditor concludes that the non-compliance has a material effect on the financial statements, and has not been
adequately reflected in the financial statements, the auditor shall, in accordance with SLAuS 705, express a qualified
opinion or an adverse opinion on the financial statements.
6
26. If the auditor is precluded by management or those charged with governance from obtaining sufficient appropriate
audit evidence to evaluate whether non-compliance that may be material to the financial statements has, or is likely to
5 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 13.

<!-- page 132 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
132A
have, occurred, the auditor shall express a qualified opinion or disclaim an opinion on the financial statements on the
basis of a limitation on the scope of the audit in accordance with SLAuS 705.
27. If the auditor is unable to determine whether non-compliance has occurred because of limitations imposed by the
circumstances rather than by management or those charged with governance, the auditor shall evaluate the effect on
the auditor’s opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705.
Reporting Non-Compliance to Regulatory and Enforcement Authorities
28. If the auditor has identified or suspects non-compliance with laws and regulations, the auditor shall determine
whether the auditor has a responsibility to report the identified or suspected non-compliance to parties outside the
entity. (Ref: Para. A19-A20)
Documentation
29. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation identified or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations
and the results of discussion with management and, where applicable, those charged with governance and other
parties outside the entity.
7 (Ref: Para. A21)
***
G
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Responsibility for Compliance with Laws and Regulations (Ref: Para. 3-8)
A1. It is the responsibility of management, with the oversight of those charged with governance, to ensure that the
entity’s operations are conducted in accordance with laws and regulations. Laws and regulations may affect an
entity’s financial statements in different ways: for example, most directly, they may affect specific disclosures required
of the entity in the financial statements or they may prescribe the applicable financial reporting framework. They may
also establish certain legal rights and obligations of the entity, some of which will be recognized in the entity’s
financial statements. In addition, laws and regulations may impose penalties in cases of non-compliance.
A2. The following are examples of the types of policies and procedures an entity may implement to assist in the prevention
and detection of non-compliance with laws and regulations :
* Monitoring legal requirements and ensuring that operating procedures are designed to meet these requirements.
* Instituting and operating appropriate systems of internal control.
* Developing, publicizing and following a code of conduct.
* Ensuring employees are properly trained and understand the code of conduct.
* Monitoring compliance with the code of conduct and acting appropriately to discipline employees who fail to
comply with it.
* Engaging legal advisors to assist in monitoring legal requirements.
* Maintaining a register of significant laws and regulations with which the entity has to comply within its
particular industry and a record of complaints.
6 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report,” paragraphs 7-8.
7 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.

<!-- page 133 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
133A
In larger entities, these policies and procedures may be supplemented by assigning appropriate responsibilities to
the following:
* An internal audit function.
* An audit committee.
* A compliance function.
Responsibility of the Auditor
A3. Non-compliance by the entity with laws and regulations may result in a material misstatement of the financial statements.
Detection of non-compliance, regardless of materiality, may affect other aspects of the audit including, for example,
the auditor’s consideration of the integrity of management or employees.
A4. Whether an act constitutes non-compliance with laws and regulations is a matter for legal determination, which is
ordinarily beyond the auditor’s professional competence to determine. Nevertheless, the auditor’s training, experience
and understanding of the entity and its industry or sector may provide a basis to recognize that some acts, coming to
the auditor’s attention, may constitute non-compliance with laws and regulations.
A5. In accordance with specific statutory requirements, the auditor may be specifically required to report, as part of the
audit of the financial statements, on whether the entity complies with certain provisions of laws or regulations. In
these circumstances, SLAuS 700
8 or SLAuS 800 9 deal with how these audit responsibilities are addressed in the
auditor’s report. Furthermore, where there are specific statutory reporting requirements, it may be necessary for the
audit plan to include appropriate tests for compliance with these provisions of the laws and regulations.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A6. In the public sector, there may be additional audit responsibilities with respect to the consideration of laws and
regulations which may relate to the audit of financial statements or may extend to other aspects of the entity’s
operations.
The Auditor’s Consideration of Compliance with Laws and Regulations
Obtaining an Understanding of the Legal and Regulatory Framework (Ref: Para. 12)
A7. To obtain a general understanding of the legal and regulatory framework, and how the entity complies with that
framework, the auditor may, for example:
* Use the auditor’s existing understanding of the entity’s industry, regulatory and other external factors;
* Update the understanding of those laws and regulations that directly determine the reported amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements;
* Inquire of management as to other laws or regulations that may be expected to have a fundamental effect on the
operations of the entity;
8 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements,” paragraph 38.
9 SLAuS 800 “Special Considerations—Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks,”
paragraph 11.

<!-- page 134 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
134A
* Inquire of management concerning the entity’s policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and
regulations ; and
ING
* Inquire of management regarding the policies or procedures adopted for identifying, evaluating and accounting
for litigation claims.
Laws and Regulations Generally Recognized to Have a Direct Effect on the Determination of Material Amounts and
Disclosures in the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 13)
A8. Certain laws and regulations are well-established, known to the entity and within the entity’s industry or sector, and
relevant to the entity’s financial statements (as described in paragraph 6(a)). They could include those that relate to,
for example :
* The form and content of financial statements ;
* Industry-specific financial reporting issues ;
* Accounting for transactions under government contracts ; or
* The accrual or recognition of expenses for income tax or pension costs.
Some provisions in those laws and regulations may be directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements
(for example, the completeness of income tax provisions), while others may be directly relevant to the financial
statements as a whole (for example, the required statements constituting a complete set of financial statements). The
aim of the requirement in paragraph 13 is for the auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the
determination of amounts and disclosures in the financial statements in compliance with the relevant provisions of
those laws and regulations.
Non-compliance with other provisions of such laws and regulations and other laws and regulations may result in
fines, litigation or other consequences for the entity, the costs of which may need to be provided for in the financial
statements, but are not considered to have a direct effect on the financial statements as described in paragraph 6(a).
Procedures to Identify Instances of Non-Compliance—Other Laws and Regulations  (Ref: Para. 14)
A9. Certain other laws and regulations may need particular attention by the auditor because they have a fundamental
effect on the operations of the entity (as described in paragraph 6(b)). Non-compliance with laws and regulations that
have a fundamental effect on the operations of the entity may cause the entity to cease operations, or call into
question the entity’s continuance as a going concern. For example, non-compliance with the requirements of the
entity’s license or other entitlement to perform its operations could have such an impact (for example, for a bank, non-
compliance with capital or investment requirements). There are also many laws and regulations relating principally to
the operating aspects of the entity that typically do not affect the financial statements and are not captured by the
entity’s information systems relevant to financial reporting.
A10. As the financial reporting consequences of other laws and regulations can vary depending on the entity’s operations,
the audit procedures required by paragraph 14 are directed to bringing to the auditor’s attention instances of non-
compliance with laws and regulations that may have a material effect on the financial statements.
Non-Compliance Brought to the Auditor’ s Attention by Other Audit Procedures (Ref: Para. 15)
A11. Audit procedures applied to form an opinion on the financial statements may bring instances of non-compliance or
suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations to the auditor’s attention. For example, such audit procedures
may include:
* Reading minutes;

<!-- page 135 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
135A
* Inquiring of the entity’s management and in-house legal counsel or external legal counsel concerning litigation,
claims and assessments; and
* Performing substantive tests of details of classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures.
Written Representations (Ref: Para. 16)
A12. Because the effect on financial statements of laws and regulations can vary considerably, written representations
provide necessary audit evidence about management’s knowledge of identified or suspected non-compliance with
laws and regulations, whose effects may have a material effect on the financial statements. However, written
representations do not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence on their own and, accordingly, do not affect the
nature and extent of other audit evidence that is to be obtained by the auditor.
10
Audit Procedures When Non-Compliance Is Identified or Suspected
Indications of Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations  (Ref: Para. 18)
A13. If the auditor becomes aware of the existence of, or information about, the following matters, it may be an indication
of non-compliance with laws and regulations :
* Investigations by regulatory organizations and government departments or payment of fines or penalties.
ITING
* Payments for unspecified services or loans to consultants, related parties, employees or government employees.
* Sales commissions or agent’s fees that appear excessive in relation to those ordinarily paid by the entity or in
its industry or to the services actually received.
* Purchasing at prices significantly above or below market price.
* Unusual payments in cash, purchases in the form of cashiers’ cheques payable to bearer or transfers to
numbered bank accounts.
* Unusual transactions with companies registered in tax havens.
* Payments for goods or services made other than to the country from which the goods or services originated.
* Payments without proper exchange control documentation.
* Existence of an information system which fails, whether by design or by accident, to provide an adequate audit
trail or sufficient evidence.
* Unauthorized transactions or improperly recorded transactions.
* Adverse media comment.
10 SLAuS 580, “Written Representaions,” paragraph 4.

<!-- page 136 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
136A
Matters Relevant to the Auditor’ s Evaluation (Ref: Para. 18(b))
A14. Matters relevant to the auditor’s evaluation of the possible effect on the financial statements include:
* The potential financial consequences of non-compliance with laws and regulations on the financial statements
including, for example, the imposition of fines, penalties, damages, threat of expropriation of assets, enforced
discontinuation of operations, and litigation.
* Whether the potential financial consequences require disclosure.
* Whether the potential financial consequences are so serious as to call into question the fair presentation of the
financial statements, or otherwise make the financial statements misleading.
Audit Procedures (Ref: Para. 19)
A15. The auditor may discuss the findings with those charged with governance where they may be able to provide
additional audit evidence. For example, the auditor may confirm that those charged with governance have the same
understanding of the facts and circumstances relevant to transactions or events that have led to the possibility of
non-compliance with laws and regulations.
A16. If management or, as appropriate, those charged with governance do not provide sufficient information to the auditor
that the entity is in fact in compliance with laws and regulations, the auditor may consider it appropriate to consult
with the entity’s in-house legal counsel or external legal counsel about the application of the laws and regulations to
the circumstances, including the possibility of fraud, and the possible effects on the financial statements. If it is not
considered appropriate to consult with the entity’s legal counsel or if the auditor is not satisfied with the legal
counsel’s opinion, the auditor may consider it appropriate to consult the auditor’s own legal counsel as to whether a
contravention of a law or regulation is involved, the possible legal consequences, including the possibility of fraud,
and what further action, if any, the auditor would take.
Evaluating the Implications of Non-Compliance  (Ref: Para. 21)
A17. As required by paragraph 21, the auditor evaluates the implications of non-compliance in relation to other aspects of
the audit, including the auditor’s risk assessment and the reliability of written representations. The implications of
particular instances of non-compliance identified by the auditor will depend on the relationship of the perpetration
and concealment, if any, of the act to specific control activities and the level of management or employees involved,
especially implications arising from the involvement of the highest authority within the entity.
A18. In exceptional cases, the auditor may consider whether withdrawal from the engagement, where withdrawal is possible
under applicable law or regulation, is necessary when management or those charged with governance do not take the
remedial action that the auditor considers appropriate in the circumstances, even when the non-compliance is not
material to the financial statements. When deciding whether withdrawal from the engagement is necessary, the auditor
may consider seeking legal advice. If withdrawal from the engagement is not possible, the auditor may consider
alternative actions, including describing the non-compliance in an Other Matter(s) paragraph in the auditor’s report.
11
Reporting of Identified or Suspected Non-Compliance
Reporting Non-Compliance to Regulatory and Enforcement Authorities  (Ref: Para. 28)
A19. The auditor’s professional duty to maintain the confidentiality of client information may preclude reporting identified
or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations to a party outside the entity. However, the auditor’s legal responsibilities
11 SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report,” paragraph 8.

<!-- page 137 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
137A
vary by jurisdiction and, in certain circumstances, the duty of confidentiality may be overridden by statute, the law or courts
of law. In some jurisdictions, the auditor of a financial institution has a statutory duty to report the occurrence, or suspected
occurrence, of non-compliance with laws and regulations to supervisory authorities. Also, in some jurisdictions, the auditor
has a duty to report misstatements to authorities in those cases where management and, where applicable, those charged
with governance fail to take corrective action. The auditor may consider it appropriate to obtain legal advice to determine the
appropriate course of action.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A20. A public sector auditor may be obliged to report on instances of non-compliance to the legislature or other governing
body or to report them in the auditor’s report.
Documentation (Ref: Para. 29)
A21. The auditor’s documentation of findings regarding identified or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations
may include, for example :
* Copies of records or documents.
* Minutes of discussions held with management, those charged with governance or parties outside the entity.
SRI  LANKA   AUDITING   STANDARD    260
Communication with those Charged with Governance
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS  ....................................................................................................................................... 1-3
The Role of Communication ............................................................................................................................ 4-7
Effective Date  ................................................................................................................................................... 8
Objectives .......................................................................................................................................................... 9
Definitions ........................................................................................................................................................... 10
Requirements
Those Charged with Governance .................................................................................................................... 11-13
Matters to Be Communicated  ......................................................................................................................... 14-17
The Communication Process  .......................................................................................................................... 18-22
Documentation  ..................................................................................... ........................................................... 23
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Those Charged with Governance  .................................................................................................................. A1-A8
Matters to Be Communicated  ......................................................................................................................... A9-A27
The Communication Process ........................................................................................................................... A28-A44
Documentation .................................................................................................................................................. A45
Appendix 1: Specific Requirements in SLSQC 1 and Other SLAuSs that Refer to Communications with Those Charged with
Governance
Appendix 2 : Qualitative Aspects of Accounting Practices

<!-- page 138 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
138A
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance” should be read in
conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance
with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to communicate with those charged
with governance in an audit of financial statements. Although this SLAuS applies irrespective of an entity’s governance
structure or size, particular considerations apply where all of those charged with governance are involved in managing
an entity, and for listed entities. This SLAuS does not establish requirements regarding the auditor’s communication
with an entity’s management or owners unless they are also charged with a governance role.
2. This SLAuS is written in the context of an audit of financial statements, but may also be applicable, adapted as
necessary in the circumstances, to audits of other historical financial information when those charged with governance
have a responsibility to oversee the preparation of the other historical financial information.
3. Recognizing the importance of effective two-way communication in an audit of financial statements, this SLAuS
provides an overarching framework for the auditor’s communication with those charged with governance, and
identifies some specific matters to be communicated with them. Additional matters to be communicated, which
complement the requirements of this SLAuS, are identified in other SLAuSs (see Appendix 1). In addition, SLAuS 265
1
establishes specific requirements regarding the communication of significant deficiencies in internal control the
auditor has identified during the audit to those charged with governance. Further matters, not required by this or
other SLAuSs, may be required to be communicated by law or regulation, by agreement with the entity, or by
additional requirements applicable to the engagement, for example, the standards of a national professional accountancy
body. Nothing in this SLAuS precludes the auditor from communicating any other matters to those charged with
governance. (Ref: Para. A24-A27)
The Role of Communication
4. This SLAuS focuses primarily on communications from the auditor to those charged with governance. Nevertheless,
effective two-way communication is important in assisting :
(a) The auditor and those charged with governance in understanding matters related to the audit in context, and in
developing a constructive working relationship. This relationship is developed while maintaining the auditor’s
independence and objectivity ;
(b) The auditor in obtaining from those charged with governance information relevant to the audit. For example,
those charged with governance may assist the auditor in understanding the entity and its environment, in
identifying appropriate sources of audit evidence, and in providing information about specific transactions or
events ; and
(c) Those charged with governance in fulfilling their responsibility to oversee the financial reporting process,
thereby reducing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements.
1 SLAuS 265, “Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and Management.”

<!-- page 139 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
139A
5. Although the auditor is responsible for communicating matters required by this SLAuS, management also has a
responsibility to communicate matters of governance interest to those charged with governance. Communication by
the auditor does not relieve management of this responsibility. Similarly, communication by management with those
charged with governance of matters that the auditor is required to communicate does not relieve the auditor of the
responsibility to also communicate them. Communication of these matters by management may, however, affect the
form or timing of the auditor’s communication with those charged with governance.
6. Clear communication of specific matters required to be communicated by SLAuSs is an integral part of every audit.
SLAuSs do not, however, require the auditor to perform procedures specifically to identify any other matters to
communicate with those charged with governance.
7. Law or regulation may restrict the auditor’s communication of certain matters with those charged with governance.
For example, laws or regulations may specifically prohibit a communication, or other action, that might prejudice an
investigation by an appropriate authority into an actual, or suspected, illegal act. In some circumstances, potential
conflicts between the auditor’s obligations of confidentiality and obligations to communicate may be complex. In
such cases, the auditor may consider obtaining legal advice.
Effective Date
8. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
9. The objectives of the auditor are :
(a) To communicate clearly with those charged with governance the responsibilities of the auditor in relation to the
financial statement audit, and an overview of the planned scope and timing of the audit ;
(b) To obtain from those charged with governance information relevant to the audit ;
AUDITING
(c) To provide those charged with governance with timely observations arising from the audit that are significant
and relevant to their responsibility to oversee the financial reporting process ; and
(d) To promote effective two-way communication between the auditor and those charged with governance.
Definitions
10. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below :
(a) Those charged with governance – The person(s) or organization(s) (for example, a corporate trustee) with
responsibility for overseeing the strategic direction of the entity and obligations related to the accountability
of the entity. This includes overseeing the financial reporting process. For some entities in some jurisdictions,
those charged with governance may include management personnel, for example, executive members of a
governance board of a private or public sector entity, or an owner-manager. For discussion of the diversity of
governance structures, see paragraphs A1-A8 ;
(b) Management – The person(s) with executive responsibility for the conduct of the entity’s operations. For some
entities in some jurisdictions, management includes some or all of those charged with governance, for example,
executive members of a governance board, or an owner-manager.

<!-- page 140 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
140A
Requirements
Those Charged with Governance
11. The auditor shall determine the appropriate person(s) within the entity’s governance structure with whom to
communicate. (Ref: Para. A1-A4)
Communication with a Subgroup of Those Charged with Governance
12. If the auditor communicates with a subgroup of those charged with governance, for example, an audit committee, or
an individual, the auditor shall determine whether the auditor also needs to communicate with the governing body.
(Ref: Para. A5-A7)
When All of Those Charged with Governance Are Involved in Managing the Entity
13. In some cases, all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity, for example, a small business
where a single owner manages the entity and no one else has a governance role. In these cases, if matters required by
this SLAuS are communicated with person(s) with management responsibilities, and those person(s) also have
governance responsibilities, the matters need not be communicated again with those same person(s) in their governance
role. These matters are noted in paragraph 16(c). The auditor shall nonetheless be satisfied that communication with
person(s) with management responsibilities adequately informs all of those with whom the auditor would otherwise
communicate in their governance capacity. (Ref: Para. A8)
Matters to Be Communicated
The Auditor’ s Responsibilities in Relation to the Financial Statement Audit
14. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance the responsibilities of the auditor in relation to
the financial statement audit, including that :
(a) The auditor is responsible for forming and expressing an opinion on the financial statements that have been
prepared by management with the oversight of those charged with governance ; and
(b) The audit of the financial statements does not relieve management or those charged with governance of their
responsibilities. (Ref: Para. A9-A10)
Planned Scope and Timing of the Audit
15. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance an overview of the planned scope and timing of
the audit. (Ref: Para. A11-A15)
Significant Findings from the Audit
16. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance: (Ref: Para. A16) :
(a) The auditor’s views about significant qualitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices, including
accounting policies, accounting estimates and financial statement disclosures. When applicable, the auditor
shall explain to those charged with governance why the auditor considers a significant accounting practice,
that is acceptable under the applicable financial reporting framework, not to be most appropriate to the particular
circumstances of the entity ; (Ref: Para. A17)
(b) Significant difficulties, if any, encountered during the audit; (Ref: Para. A18).

<!-- page 141 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
141A
(c) Unless all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity :
(i) Significant matters, if any, arising from the audit that were discussed, or subject to correspondence with
management ; and (Ref: Para. A19)
(ii) W ritten representations the auditor is requesting ; and
(d) Other matters, if any, arising from the audit that, in the auditor’s professional judgment, are significant to the
oversight of the financial reporting process. (Ref: Para. A20)
Auditor Independence
17. In the case of listed entities, the auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance:
(a) A statement that the engagement team and others in the firm as appropriate, the firm and, when applicable,
network firms have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence; and
(b) (i) All relationships and other matters between the firm, network firms, and the entity that, in the auditor’s
professional judgment, may reasonably be thought to bear on independence. This shall include total fees
charged during the period covered by the financial statements for audit and non-audit services provided
by the firm and network firms to the entity and components controlled by the entity. These fees shall be
allocated to categories that are appropriate to assist those charged with governance in assessing the effect
of services on the independence of the auditor; and
(ii) The related safeguards that have been applied to eliminate identified threats to independence or reduce
them to an acceptable level. (Ref: Para. A21-A23)
The Communication Process
Establishing the Communication Process
18. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance the form, timing and expected general content of
communications. (Ref: Para. A28-A36)
Forms of Communication
19. The auditor shall communicate in writing with those charged with governance regarding significant findings from the
audit if, in the auditor’s professional judgment, oral communication would not be adequate. Written communications
need not include all matters that arose during the course of the audit. (Ref: Para. A37-A39)
20. The auditor shall communicate in writing with those charged with governance regarding auditor independence when
required by paragraph 17.
Timing of Communications
21. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance on a timely basis. (Ref: Para. A40-A41)
Adequacy of the Communication Process
22. The auditor shall evaluate whether the two-way communication between the auditor and those charged with governance
has been adequate for the purpose of the audit. If it has not, the auditor shall evaluate the effect, if any, on the
auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement and ability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence,
and shall take appropriate action. (Ref: Para. A42-A44)

<!-- page 142 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
142A
Documentation
23. Where matters required by this SLAuS to be communicated are communicated orally, the auditor shall include them
in the audit documentation, and when and to whom they were communicated. Where matters have been communicated
in writing, the auditor shall retain a copy of the communication as part of the audit documentation.2 (Ref: Para. A45)
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 11)
A1. Governance structures vary by jurisdiction and by entity, reflecting influences such as different cultural and legal
backgrounds, and size and ownership characteristics. For example:
* In some jurisdictions a supervisory (wholly or mainly non-executive) board exists that is legally separate from
an executive (management) board (a “two-tier board” structure). In other jurisdictions, both the supervisory
and executive functions are the legal responsibility of a single, or unitary, board (a “one-tier board” structure).
* In some entities, those charged with governance hold positions that are an integral part of the entity’s legal
structure, for example, company directors. In others, for example, some government entities, a body that is not
part of the entity is charged with governance.
* In some cases, some or all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity. In others,
those charged with governance and management comprise different persons.
* In some cases, those charged with governance are responsible for approving
3 the entity’s financial statements
(in other cases management has this responsibility).
UDITING
A2. In most entities, governance is the collective responsibility of a governing body, such as a board of directors, a
supervisory board, partners, proprietors, a committee of management, a council of governors, trustees, or equivalent
persons. In some smaller entities, however, one person may be charged with governance, for example, the owner-
manager where there are no other owners, or a sole trustee. When governance is a collective responsibility, a subgroup
such as an audit committee or even an individual, may be charged with specific tasks to assist the governing body in
meeting its responsibilities. Alternatively, a subgroup or individual may have specific, legally identified responsibilities
that differ from those of the governing body.
A3. Such diversity means that it is not possible for this SLAuS to specify for all audits the person(s) with whom the
auditor is to communicate particular matters. Also, in some cases the appropriate person(s) with whom to communicate
may not be clearly identifiable from the applicable legal framework or other engagement circumstances, for example,
entities where the governance structure is not formally defined, such as some family-owned entities, some not-for-
profit organizations, and some government entities. In such cases, the auditor may need to discuss and agree with the
engaging party the relevant person(s) with whom to communicate. In deciding with whom to communicate, the
auditor’s understanding of an entity’s governance structure and processes obtained in accordance with SLAuS 3154
is relevant. The appropriate person(s) with whom to communicate may vary depending on the matter to be
communicated.
2 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.
3 As described at paragraph A40 of SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements,” having responsibility f or
approving in this context means having the authority to conclude that all the statements that comprise the financial statements ,
including the related notes, have been prepared.
4 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment.”

<!-- page 143 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
143A
A4. SLAuS 600 includes specific matters to be communicated by group auditors with those charged with governance. 5
When the entity is a component of a group, the appropriate person(s) with whom the component auditor communicates
depends on the engagement circumstances and the matter to be communicated. In some cases, a number of components
may be conducting the same businesses within the same system of internal control and using the same accounting
practices. Where those charged with governance of those components are the same (for example, common board of
directors), duplication may be avoided by dealing with these components concurrently for the purpose of
communication.
Communication with a Subgroup of Those Charged with Governance  (Ref: Para. 12)
A5. When considering communicating with a subgroup of those charged with governance, the auditor may take into
account such matters as :
* The respective responsibilities of the subgroup and the governing body.
* The nature of the matter to be communicated.
* Relevant legal or regulatory requirements.
* Whether the subgroup has the authority to take action in relation to the information communicated, and can
provide further information and explanations the auditor may need.
A6. When deciding whether there is also a need to communicate information, in full or in summary form, with the
governing body, the auditor may be influenced by the auditor’s assessment of how effectively and appropriately the
subgroup communicates relevant information with the governing body. The auditor may make explicit in agreeing the
terms of engagement that, unless prohibited by law or regulation, the auditor retains the right to communicate directly
with the governing body.
A7. Audit committees (or similar subgroups with different names) exist in many jurisdictions. Although their specific
authority and functions may differ, communication with the audit committee, where one exists, has become a key
element in the auditor’s communication with those charged with governance. Good governance principles suggest
that :
* The auditor will be invited to regularly attend meetings of the audit committee.
* The chair of the audit committee and, when relevant, the other members of the audit committee, will liaise with
the auditor periodically.
* The audit committee will meet the auditor without management present at least annually.
When All of Those Charged with Governance Are Involved in Managing the Entity  (Ref: Para.13)
A8. In some cases, all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity, and the application of
communication requirements is modified to recognize this position. In such cases, communication with person(s)
with management responsibilities may not adequately inform all of those with whom the auditor would otherwise
communicate in their governance capacity. For example, in a company where all directors are involved in managing the
entity, some of those directors (for example, one responsible for marketing) may be unaware of significant matters
discussed with another director (for example, one responsible for the preparation of the financial statements).
51 SLAuS 600, “Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors),” paragraphs
46-49.

<!-- page 144 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
144A
Matters to Be Communicated
The Auditor’ s Responsibilities in Relation to the Financial Statement Audit (Ref: Para. 14)
A9. The auditor’s responsibilities in relation to the financial statement audit are often included in the engagement letter or
other suitable form of written agreement that records the agreed terms of the engagement. Providing those charged
with governance with a copy of that engagement letter or other suitable form of written agreement may be an
appropriate way to communicate with them regarding such matters as :
* The auditor’s responsibility for performing the audit in accordance with SLAuSs, which is directed towards the
expression of an opinion on the financial statements. The matters that SLAuSs require to be communicated,
therefore, include significant matters arising from the audit of the financial statements that are relevant to those
charged with governance in overseeing the financial reporting process.
* The fact that SLAuSs do not require the auditor to design procedures for the purpose of identifying
supplementary matters to communicate with those charged with governance.
* When applicable, the auditor’s responsibility for communicating particular matters required by law or regulation,
by agreement with the entity or by additional requirements applicable to the engagement, for example, the
standards of a national professional accountancy body.
A10. Law or regulation, an agreement with the entity or additional requirements applicable to the engagement may provide
for broader communication with those charged with governance. For example, (a) an agreement with the entity may
provide for particular matters to be communicated when they arise from services provided by a firm or network firm
other than the financial statement audit; or (b) the mandate of a public sector auditor may provide for matters to be
communicated that come to the auditor’s attention as a result of other work, such as performance audits.
Planned Scope and Timing of the Audit (Ref: Para. 15)
A11. Communication regarding the planned scope and timing of the audit may :
(a) Assist those charged with governance to understand better the consequences of the auditor’s work, to discuss
issues of risk and the concept of materiality with the auditor, and to identify any areas in which they may
request the auditor to undertake additional procedures ; and
(b) Assist the auditor to understand better the entity and its environment.
A12. Care is required when communicating with those charged with governance about the planned scope and timing of the
audit so as not to compromise the effectiveness of the audit, particularly where some or all of those charged with
governance are involved in managing the entity. For example, communicating the nature and timing of detailed audit
procedures may reduce the effectiveness of those procedures by making them too predictable.
A13. Matters communicated may include :
* How the auditor proposes to address the significant risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
* The auditor’s approach to internal control relevant to the audit.
* The application of the concept of materiality in the context of an audit.
6
6 SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing at Audit."

<!-- page 145 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
145A
A14. Other planning matters that it may be appropriate to discuss with those charged with governance include:
* Where the entity has an internal audit function, the extent to which the auditor will use the work of internal
audit, and how the external and internal auditors can best work together in a constructive and complementary
manner.
* The views of those charged with governance of:
 The appropriate person(s) in the entity’s governance structure with whom to communicate.
 The allocation of responsibilities between those charged with governance and management.
 The entity’s objectives and strategies, and the related business risks that may result in material misstatements.
 Matters those charged with governance consider warrant particular attention during the audit, and any
areas where they request additional procedures to be undertaken.
 Significant communications with regulators.
 Other matters those charged with governance consider may influence the audit of the financial statements.
* The attitudes, awareness, and actions of those charged with governance concerning (a) the entity’s internal
control and its importance in the entity, including how those charged with governance oversee the effectiveness
of internal control, and (b) the detection or possibility of fraud.
·AUDITING
* The actions of those charged with governance in response to developments in accounting standards, corporate
governance practices, exchange listing rules, and related matters.
* The responses of those charged with governance to previous communications with the auditor.
A15. While communication with those charged with governance may assist the auditor to plan the scope and timing of the
audit, it does not change the auditor’s sole responsibility to establish the overall audit strategy and the audit plan,
including the nature, timing and extent of procedures necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
Significant Findings from the Audit (Ref: Para. 16)
A16. The communication of findings from the audit may include requesting further information from those charged with
governance in order to complete the audit evidence obtained. For example, the auditor may confirm that those
charged with governance have the same understanding of the facts and circumstances relevant to specific transactions
or events.
Significant Qualitative Aspects of Accounting Practices  (Ref: Para. 16(a))
A17. Financial reporting frameworks ordinarily allow for the entity to make accounting estimates, and judgments about
accounting policies and financial statement disclosures. Open and constructive communication about significant
qualitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices may include comment on the acceptability of significant
accounting practices. Appendix 2 identifies matters that may be included in this communication.
Significant Difficulties Encountered during the Audit (Ref: Para. 16(b))
A18. Significant difficulties encountered during the audit may include such matters as:
* Significant delays in management providing required information.

<!-- page 146 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
146A
* An unnecessarily brief time within which to complete the audit.
* Extensive unexpected effort required to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
* The unavailability of expected information.
* Restrictions imposed on the auditor by management.
* Management’s unwillingness to make or extend its assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going
concern when requested.
In some circumstances, such difficulties may constitute a scope limitation that leads to a modification of the auditor’s
opinion.
7
Significant Matters Discussed, or Subject to Correspondence with Management (Ref: Para. 16(c)(i))
A19. Significant matters discussed, or subject to correspondence with management may include such matters as:
* Business conditions affecting the entity, and business plans and strategies that may affect the risks of material
misstatement.
* Concerns about management’s consultations with other accountants on accounting or auditing matters.
* Discussions or correspondence in connection with the initial or recurring appointment of the auditor regarding
accounting practices, the application of auditing standards, or fees for audit or other services.
Other Significant Matters Relevant to the Financial Reporting Process (Ref: Para. 16(d))
A20. Other significant matters arising from the audit that are directly relevant to those charged with governance in
overseeing the financial reporting process may include such matters as material misstatements of fact or material
inconsistencies in information accompanying the audited financial statements that have been corrected.
Auditor Independence (Ref: Para. 17)
A21. The auditor is required to comply with relevant ethical requirements, including those pertaining to independence,
relating to financial statement audit engagements.
8
A22. The relationships and other matters, and safeguards to be communicated, vary with the circumstances of the
engagement, but generally address:
(a) Threats to independence, which may be categorized as: self-interest threats, self-review threats, advocacy
threats, familiarity threats, and intimidation threats; and
(b) Safeguards created by the profession, legislation or regulation, safeguards within the entity, and safeguards
within the firm’s own systems and procedures.
AUDITING
The communication required by paragraph 17(a) may include an inadvertent violation of relevant ethical requirements
as they relate to auditor independence, and any remedial action taken or proposed.
7 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to be Opinion in the Independent Auditor's Report."

<!-- page 147 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
147A
A23. The communication requirements relating to auditor independence that apply in the case of listed entities may also be
relevant in the case of some other entities, particularly those that may be of significant public interest because, as a
result of their business, their size or their corporate status, they have a wide range of stakeholders. Examples of
entities that are not listed entities, but where communication of auditor independence may be appropriate, include
public sector entities, credit institutions, insurance companies, and retirement benefit funds. On the other hand, there
may be situations where communications regarding independence may not be relevant, for example, where all of those
charged with governance have been informed of relevant facts through their management activities. This is particularly
likely where the entity is owner-managed, and the auditor’s firm and network firms have little involvement with the
entity beyond a financial statement audit.
Supplementary Matters (Ref: Para. 3)
A24. The oversight of management by those charged with governance includes ensuring that the entity designs,
implements and maintains appropriate internal control with regard to reliability of financial reporting, effectiveness
and efficiency of operations and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
A25. The auditor may become aware of supplementary matters that do not necessarily relate to the oversight of the
financial reporting process but which are, nevertheless, likely to be significant to the responsibilities of those
charged with governance in overseeing the strategic direction of the entity or the entity’s obligations related to
accountability. Such matters may include, for example, significant issues regarding governance structures or processes,
and significant decisions or actions by senior management that lack appropriate authorization.
A26. In determining whether to communicate supplementary matters with those charged with governance, the auditor
may discuss matters of this kind of which the auditor has become aware with the appropriate level of management,
unless it is inappropriate to do so in the circumstances.
A27. If a supplementary matter is communicated, it may be appropriate for the auditor to make those charged with
governance aware that :
(a) Identification and communication of such matters is incidental to the purpose of the audit, which is to form an
opinion on the financial statements ;
(b) No procedures were carried out with respect to the matter other than any that were necessary to form an opinion
on the financial statements ; and
(c) No procedures were carried out to determine whether other such matters exist.
The Communication Process
Establishing the Communication Process (Ref: Para. 18)
A28. Clear communication of the auditor’s responsibilities, the planned scope and timing of the audit, and the expected
general content of communications helps establish the basis for effective two-way communication.
A29. Matters that may also contribute to effective two-way communication include discussion of:
* The purpose of communications. When the purpose is clear, the auditor and those charged with governance
are better placed to have a mutual understanding of relevant issues and the expected actions arising from the
communication process.
8 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph 14.

<!-- page 148 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
148A
* The form in which communications will be made.
* The person(s) in the audit team and amongst those charged with governance who will communicate regarding
particular matters.
* The auditor’s expectation that communication will be two-way, and that those charged with governance will
communicate with the auditor matters they consider relevant to the audit, for example, strategic decisions that
may significantly affect the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures, the suspicion or the detection of
fraud, and concerns with the integrity or competence of senior management.
* The process for taking action and reporting back on matters communicated by the auditor.
*  The process for taking action and reporting back on matters communicated by those charged with governance.
A30. The communication process will vary with the circumstances, including the size and governance structure of the
entity, how those charged with governance operate, and the auditor’s view of the significance of matters to be
communicated. Difficulty in establishing effective two-way communication may indicate that the communication
between the auditor and those charged with governance is not adequate for the purpose of the audit (see paragraph
A44).
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A31. In the case of audits of smaller entities, the auditor may communicate in a less structured manner with those charged
with governance than in the case of listed or larger entities.
Communication with Management
A32. Many matters may be discussed with management in the ordinary course of an audit, including matters required by
this SLAuS to be communicated with those charged with governance. Such discussions recognize management’s
executive responsibility for the conduct of the entity’s operations and, in particular, management’s responsibility for
the preparation of the financial statements.
A33. Before communicating matters with those charged with governance, the auditor may discuss them with management,
unless that is inappropriate. For example, it may not be appropriate to discuss questions of management’s competence
or integrity with management. In addition to recognizing management’s executive responsibility, these initial
discussions may clarify facts and issues, and give management an opportunity to provide further information and
explanations. Similarly, when the entity has an internal audit function, the auditor may discuss matters with the
internal auditor before communicating with those charged with governance.
Communication with Third Parties
A34. Those charged with governance may wish to provide third parties, for example, bankers or certain regulatory authorities,
with copies of a written communication from the auditor. In some cases, disclosure to third parties may be illegal or
otherwise inappropriate. When a written communication prepared for those charged with governance is provided to
third parties, it may be important in the circumstances that the third parties be informed that the communication was
not prepared with them in mind, for example, by stating in written communications with those charged with
governance :
(a) That the communication has been prepared for the sole use of those charged with governance and, where
applicable, the group management and the group auditor, and should not be relied upon by third parties;
(b) That no responsibility is assumed by the auditor to third parties; and
(c) Any restrictions on disclosure or distribution to third parties.

<!-- page 149 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
149A
A35. In some jurisdictions the auditor may be required by law or regulation to, for example:
* Notify a regulatory or enforcement body of certain matters communicated with those charged with governance.
For example, in some countries the auditor has a duty to report misstatements to authorities where management
and those charged with governance fail to take corrective action;
* Submit copies of certain reports prepared for those charged with governance to relevant regulatory or funding
bodies, or other bodies such as a central authority in the case of some public sector entities; or
* Make reports prepared for those charged with governance publicly available.
A36. Unless required by law or regulation to provide a third party with a copy of the auditor’s written communications with
those charged with governance, the auditor may need the prior consent of those charged with governance before
doing so.
Forms of Communication (Ref: Para. 19-20)
A37. Effective communication may involve structured presentations and written reports as well as less structured
communications, including discussions. The auditor may communicate matters other than those identified in paragraphs
19 and 20 either orally or in writing. Written communications may include an engagement letter that is provided to
those charged with governance.
A38. In addition to the significance of a particular matter, the form of communication (for example, whether to communicate
orally or in writing, the extent of detail or summarization in the communication, and whether to communicate in a
structured or unstructured manner) may be affected by such factors as:
*  Whether the matter has been satisfactorily resolved.
*  Whether management has previously communicated the matter.
* The size, operating structure, control environment, and legal structure of the entity.
* In the case of an audit of special purpose financial statements, whether the auditor also audits the entity’s
general purpose financial statements.
* Legal requirements. In some jurisdictions, a written communication with those charged with governance is
required in a prescribed form by local law.
* The expectations of those charged with governance, including arrangements made for periodic meetings or
communications with the auditor.
*  The amount of ongoing contact and dialogue the auditor has with those charged with governance.
*  Whether there have been significant changes in the membership of a governing body.
A39. When a significant matter is discussed with an individual member of those charged with governance, for example, the
chair of an audit committee, it may be appropriate for the auditor to summarize the matter in later communications so
that all of those charged with governance have full and balanced information.
AUDITING

<!-- page 150 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
150A
Timing of Communications (Ref: Para. 21)
A40. The appropriate timing for communications will vary with the circumstances of the engagement. Relevant circumstances
include the significance and nature of the matter, and the action expected to be taken by those charged with governance.
For example :
* Communications regarding planning matters may often be made early in the audit engagement and, for an initial
engagement, may be made as part of agreeing the terms of the engagement.
* It may be appropriate to communicate a significant difficulty encountered during the audit as soon as practicable
if those charged with governance are able to assist the auditor to overcome the difficulty, or if it is likely to lead
to a modified opinion. Similarly, the auditor may communicate orally to those charged with governance as soon
as practicable significant deficiencies in internal control that the auditor has identified, prior to communicating
these in writing as required by SLAuS 265.
9 Communications regarding independence may be appropriate
whenever significant judgments are made about threats to independence and related safeguards, for example,
when accepting an engagement to provide non-audit services, and at a concluding discussion. A concluding
discussion may also be an appropriate time to communicate findings from the audit, including the auditor’s
views about the qualitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices.
*  When auditing both general purpose and special purpose financial statements, it may be appropriate to
coordinate the timing of communications.
A41. Other factors that may be relevant to the timing of communications include :
* The size, operating structure, control environment, and legal structure of the entity being audited.
* Any legal obligation to communicate certain matters within a specified timeframe.
* The expectations of those charged with governance, including arrangements made for periodic meetings or
communications with the auditor.
* The time at which the auditor identifies certain matters, for example, the auditor may not identify a particular
matter (for example, non-compliance with a law) in time for preventive action to be taken, but communication of
the matter may enable remedial action to be taken.
Adequacy of the Communication Process (Ref: Para. 22)
A42. The auditor need not design specific procedures to support the evaluation of the two-way communication between
the auditor and those charged with governance; rather, that evaluation may be based on observations resulting from
audit procedures performed for other purposes. Such observations may include:
* The appropriateness and timeliness of actions taken by those charged with governance in response to matters
raised by the auditor. Where significant matters raised in previous communications have not been dealt with
effectively, it may be appropriate for the auditor to inquire as to why appropriate action has not been taken, and
to consider raising the point again. This avoids the risk of giving an impression that the auditor is satisfied that
the matter has been adequately addressed or is no longer significant.
9 SLAuS 265, paragraph 9 and A14.

<!-- page 151 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
151A
* The apparent openness of those charged with governance in their communications with the auditor.
* The willingness and capacity of those charged with governance to meet with the auditor without management
present.
* The apparent ability of those charged with governance to fully comprehend matters raised by the auditor,
for example, the extent to which those charged with governance probe issues, and question recommendations
made to them.
* Difficulty in establishing with those charged with governance a mutual understanding of the form, timing
and expected general content of communications.
* Where all or some of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity, their apparent
awareness of how matters discussed with the auditor affect their broader governance responsibilities, as well
as their management responsibilities.
* Whether the two-way communication between the auditor and those charged with governance meets applicable
legal and regulatory requirements.
A43. As noted in paragraph 4, effective two-way communication assists both the auditor and those charged with governance.
Further, SLAuS 315 identifies participation by those charged with governance, including their interaction with internal
audit, if any, and external auditors, as an element of the entity’s control environment.
10 Inadequate two-way
communication may indicate an unsatisfactory control environment and influence the auditor’s assessment of the
risks of material misstatements. There is also a risk that the auditor may not have obtained sufficient appropriate audit
evidence to form an opinion on the financial statements.
A44. If the two-way communication between the auditor and those charged with governance is not adequate and the
situation cannot be resolved, the auditor may take such actions as:
* Modifying the auditor’s opinion on the basis of a scope limitation.
* Obtaining legal advice about the consequences of different courses of action.
* Communicating with third parties (for example, a regulator), or a higher authority in the governance structure
that is outside the entity, such as the owners of a business (for example, shareholders in a general meeting), or
the responsible government minister or parliament in the public sector.
* Withdrawing from the engagement, where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or regulation.
Documentation (Ref: Para. 23)
A45. Documentation of oral communication may include a copy of minutes prepared by the entity retained as part of the
audit documentation where those minutes are an appropriate record of the communication.
10 SLAuS 315, paragraph A70.

<!-- page 152 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
152A
Appendix 1
(Ref: Para. 3)
Specific Requirements in SLSQC 1 and Other SLAuSs that Refer to Communications with
Those Charged With Governance
This appendix identifies paragraphs in SLSQC 111 and other SLAuSs in effect for audits of financial statements for
periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014 that require communication of specific matters with those charged with
governance. The list is not a substitute for considering the requirements and related application and other explanatory
material in SLAuSs.
* SLSQC 1, “Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other
Assurance and Related Services Engagements” – paragraph 30(a)
* SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements” – paragraphs
21, 38(c)(i) and 40-42
* SLAuS 250, “Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements” – paragraphs 14, 19
and 22-24
* SLAuS 265, “Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and
Management” – paragraph 9
* SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit” – paragraphs 12-13
* SLAuS 505, “External Confirmations” – paragraph 9
* SLAuS 510, “Initial Audit Engagements – Opening Balances” – paragraph 7
* SLAuS 550, “Related Parties” – paragraph 27
* SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events” – paragraphs 7(b)-(c), 10(a), 13(b), 14(a) and 17
* SLAuS 570, “Going Concern” – paragraph 23
* SLAuS 600, “Special Considerations – Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component
Auditors)” – paragraph 49
* SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report” – paragraphs 12, 14, 19(a) and
28
* SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s
Report” – paragraph 9
* SLAuS 710, “Comparative Information—Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements” –
paragraph 18
* SLAuS 720, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information in Documents Containing Audited
Financial Statements” – paragraphs 10, 13 and 16
Appendix 2
(Ref: Para. 16(a), A17)
Qualitative Aspects of Accounting Practices
The communication required by paragraph 16(a), and discussed in paragraph A17, may include such matters as:
Accounting Policies
* The appropriateness of the accounting policies to the particular circumstances of the entity, having regard to
the need to balance the cost of providing information with the likely benefit to users of the entity’s financial

<!-- page 153 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
153A
statements. Where acceptable alternative accounting policies exist, the communication may include identification
of the financial statement items that are affected by the choice of significant accounting policies as well as
information on accounting policies used by similar entities.
* The initial selection of, and changes in significant accounting policies, including the application of new
accounting pronouncements. The communication may include: the effect of the timing and method of adoption
of a change in accounting policy on the current and future earnings of the entity; and the timing of a change in
accounting policies in relation to expected new accounting pronouncements.
* The effect of significant accounting policies in controversial or emerging areas (or those unique to an industry,
particularly when there is a lack of authoritative guidance or consensus).
* The effect of the timing of transactions in relation to the period in which they are recorded.
Accounting Estimates
* For items for which estimates are significant, issues discussed in SLAuS 540,
12 including, for example:
 Management’s identification of accounting estimates.
 Management’s process for making accounting estimates.
 Risks of material misstatement.
 Indicators of possible management bias.
 Disclosure of estimation uncertainty in the financial statements.
Financial Statement Disclosures
* `The issues involved, and related judgments made, in formulating particularly sensitive financial statement disclosures
(for example, disclosures related to revenue recognition, remuneration, going concern, subsequent events, and
contingency issues).
* The overall neutrality, consistency and clarity of the disclosures in the financial statements.
Related Matters
* The potential effect on the financial statements of significant risks, exposures and uncertainties, such as pending
litigation, that are disclosed in the financial statements.
* The extent to which the financial statements are affected by unusual transactions, including non-recurring amounts
recognized during the period, and the extent to which such transactions are separately disclosed in the financial
statements.
* The factors affecting asset and liability carrying values, including the entity’s bases for determining useful lives
assigned to tangible and intangible assets. The communication may explain how factors affecting carrying values
were selected and how alternative selections would have affected the financial statements.
* The selective correction of misstatements, for example, correcting misstatements with the effect of increasing reported
earnings, but not those that have the effect of decreasing reported earnings.
121 SLAuS 540, “Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures.”

<!-- page 154 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
154A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  265
COMMUNICATING DEFICIENCIES IN INTERNAL  CONTROL TO THOSE CHARGED WITH
GOVERNANCE  AND  MANAGEMENT
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS  ............................................................................. 1-3
Effective Date ........................................................................................ 4
Objective .............................................................................................. 5
Definitions ............................................................................................ 6
Requirements ...................................................................................... 7-11
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Determination of Whether Deficiencies in Internal Control Have
Been Identified ............................................................................... A1-A4
Significant Deficiencies in Internal Control ... ...................................... A5-A11
Communication of Deficiencies in Internal Control ............................. A12-A30
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 265, “Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to
Those Charged with Governance and Management” should be read in conjunction with SLAuS
200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance
with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to communicate appropriately to
those charged with governance and management deficiencies in internal control
1 that the auditor has identified in an
audit of financial statements. This SLAuS does not impose additional responsibilities on the auditor regarding
obtaining an understanding of internal control and designing and performing tests of controls over and above the
requirements of SLAuS 315 and SLAuS 330.
2 SLAuS 2603 establishes further requirements and provides guidance
regarding the auditor’s responsibility to communicate with those charged with governance in relation to the audit.
2. The auditor is required to obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit when identifying and
assessing the risks of material misstatement.4 In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control. The auditor may identify deficiencies in internal control not only
during this risk assessment process but also at any other stage of the audit. This SLAuS specifies which identified
deficiencies the auditor is required to communicate to those charged with governance and management.
3. Nothing in this SLAuS precludes the auditor from communicating to those charged with governance and management
other internal control matters that the auditor has identified during the audit.
1 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment,”
paragraphs 4 and 12.
2 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”
3 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance.”
4 SLAuS 315, paragraph 12. Paragraphs A60-A65 provide guidance on controls relevant to the audit.

<!-- page 155 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
155A
Effective Date
4. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
5. The objective of the auditor is to communicate appropriately to those charged with governance and management
deficiencies in internal control that the auditor has identified during the audit and that, in the auditor’s professional
judgment, are of sufficient importance to merit their respective attentions.
Definitions
6. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Deficiency in internal control – This exists when:
(i) A control is designed, implemented or operated in such a way that it is unable to prevent, or detect and
correct, misstatements in the financial statements on a timely basis; or
(ii) A control necessary to prevent, or detect and correct, misstatements in the financial statements on a
timely basis is missing.
(b) Significant deficiency in internal control – A deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control that,
in the auditor’s professional judgment, is of sufficient importance to merit the attention of those charged with
governance. (Ref: Para. A5)
Requirements
7. The auditor shall determine whether, on the basis of the audit work performed, the auditor has identified one or more
deficiencies in internal control. (Ref: Para. A1-A4)
8. If the auditor has identified one or more deficiencies in internal control, the auditor shall determine, on the basis of the
audit work performed, whether, individually or in combination, they constitute significant deficiencies. (Ref: Para.
A5-A11)
9. The auditor shall communicate in writing significant deficiencies in internal control identified during the audit to
those charged with governance on a timely basis. (Ref: Para. A12-A18, A27)
10. The auditor shall also communicate to management at an appropriate level of responsibility on a timely basis: (Ref:
Para. A19, A27)
(a) In writing, significant deficiencies in internal control that the auditor has communicated or intends to communicate
to those charged with governance, unless it would be inappropriate to communicate directly to management in
the circumstances; and (Ref: Para. A14, A20-A21)
(b) Other deficiencies in internal control identified during the audit that have not been communicated to management
by other parties and that, in the auditor’s professional judgment, are of sufficient importance to merit
management’s attention. (Ref: Para. A22-A26)
AUDITING
11. The auditor shall include in the written communication of significant deficiencies in internal control:
(a) A description of the deficiencies and an explanation of their potential effects; and (Ref: Para. A28)

<!-- page 156 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
156A
(b) Sufficient information to enable those charged with governance and management to understand the context of
the communication. In particular, the auditor shall explain that: (Ref: Para. A29-A30)
(i) The purpose of the audit was for the auditor to express an opinion on the financial statements;
(ii) The audit included consideration of internal control relevant to the preparation of the financial statements
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control; and
(iii) The matters being reported are limited to those deficiencies that the auditor has identified during the
audit and that the auditor has concluded are of sufficient importance to merit being reported to those
charged with governance.
* * *
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Determination of Whether Deficiencies in Internal Control Have Been Identified (Ref: Para. 7)
A1. In determining whether the auditor has identified one or more deficiencies in internal control, the auditor may discuss
the relevant facts and circumstances of the auditor’s findings with the appropriate level of management. This
discussion provides an opportunity for the auditor to alert management on a timely basis to the existence of deficiencies
of which management may not have been previously aware. The level of management with whom it is appropriate to
discuss the findings is one that is familiar with the internal control area concerned and that has the authority to take
remedial action on any identified deficiencies in internal control. In some circumstances, it may not be appropriate for
the auditor to discuss the auditor’s findings directly with management, for example, if the findings appear to call
management’s integrity or competence into question (see paragraph A20).
A2. In discussing the facts and circumstances of the auditor’s findings with management, the auditor may obtain other
relevant information for further consideration, such as:
* Management’s understanding of the actual or suspected causes of the deficiencies.
* Exceptions arising from the deficiencies that management may have noted, for example, misstatements that
were not prevented by the relevant information technology (IT) controls.
* A preliminary indication from management of its response to the findings.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A3. While the concepts underlying control activities in smaller entities are likely to be similar to those in larger entities, the
formality with which they operate will vary. Further, smaller entities may find that certain types of control activities are
not necessary because of controls applied by management. For example, management’s sole authority for granting
credit to customers and approving significant purchases can provide effective control over important account
balances and transactions, lessening or removing the need for more detailed control activities.
A4. Also, smaller entities often have fewer employees which may limit the extent to which segregation of duties is
practicable. However, in a small owner-managed entity, the owner-manager may be able to exercise more effective
oversight than in a larger entity. This higher level of management oversight needs to be balanced against the greater
potential for management override of controls.
Significant Deficiencies in Internal Control (Ref: Para. 6(b), 8)
A5. The significance of a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control depends not only on whether a
misstatement has actually occurred, but also on the likelihood that a misstatement could occur and the potential
magnitude of the misstatement. Significant deficiencies may therefore exist even though the auditor has not identified
misstatements during the audit.

<!-- page 157 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
157A
A6. Examples of matters that the auditor may consider in determining whether a deficiency or combination of deficiencies
in internal control constitutes a significant deficiency include:
* The likelihood of the deficiencies leading to material misstatements in the financial statements in the future.
* The susceptibility to loss or fraud of the related asset or liability.
* The subjectivity and complexity of determining estimated amounts, such as fair value accounting estimates.
* The financial statement amounts exposed to the deficiencies.
·AUDITING
* The volume of activity that has occurred or could occur in the account balance or class of transactions exposed
to the deficiency or deficiencies.
* The importance of the controls to the financial reporting process; for example:
o General monitoring controls (such as oversight of management).
o Controls over the prevention and detection of fraud.
o Controls over the selection and application of significant accounting policies.
o Controls over significant transactions with related parties.
o Controls over significant transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business.
o Controls over the period-end financial reporting process (such as controls over non-recurring journal
entries).
* The cause and frequency of the exceptions detected as a result of the deficiencies in the controls.
* The interaction of the deficiency with other deficiencies in internal control.
A7. Indicators of significant deficiencies in internal control include, for example:
* Evidence of ineffective aspects of the control environment, such as:
o Indications that significant transactions in which management is financially interested are not being
appropriately scrutinized by those charged with governance.
o Identification of management fraud, whether or not material, that was not prevented by the entity’s
internal control.
o Management’s failure to implement appropriate remedial action on significant deficiencies previously
communicated.
* Absence of a risk assessment process within the entity where such a process would ordinarily be expected to
have been established.
* Evidence of an ineffective entity risk assessment process, such as management’s failure to identify a risk of
material misstatement that the auditor would expect the entity’s risk assessment process to have identified.
* Evidence of an ineffective response to identified significant risks (for example, absence of controls over such
a risk).

<!-- page 158 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
158A
* Misstatements detected by the auditor’s procedures that were not prevented, or detected and corrected, by the
entity’s internal control.
* Restatement of previously issued financial statements to reflect the correction of a material misstatement due to
error or fraud.
* Evidence of management’s inability to oversee the preparation of the financial statements.
A8. Controls may be designed to operate individually or in combination to effectively prevent, or detect and correct,
misstatements.5 For example, controls over accounts receivable may consist of both automated and manual controls
designed to operate together to prevent, or detect and correct, misstatements in the account balance. A deficiency in
internal control on its own may not be sufficiently important to constitute a significant deficiency. However, a
combination of deficiencies affecting the same account balance or disclosure, relevant assertion, or component of
internal control may increase the risks of misstatement to such an extent as to give rise to a significant deficiency.
A9. Law or regulation in some jurisdictions may establish a requirement (particularly for audits of listed entities) for the
auditor to communicate to those charged with governance or to other relevant parties (such as regulators) one or
more specific types of deficiency in internal control that the auditor has identified during the audit. Where law or
regulation has established specific terms and definitions for these types of deficiency and requires the auditor to use
these terms and definitions for the purpose of the communication, the auditor uses such terms and definitions when
communicating in accordance with the legal or regulatory requirement.
A10. Where the jurisdiction has established specific terms for the types of deficiency in internal control to be communicated
but has not defined such terms, it may be necessary for the auditor to use judgment to determine the matters to be
communicated further to the legal or regulatory requirement. In doing so, the auditor may consider it appropriate to
have regard to the requirements and guidance in this SLAuS. For example, if the purpose of the legal or regulatory
requirement is to bring to the attention of those charged with governance certain internal control matters of which
they should be aware, it may be appropriate to regard such matters as being generally equivalent to the significant
deficiencies required by this SLAuS to be communicated to those charged with governance.
A11. The requirements of this SLAuS remain applicable notwithstanding that law or regulation may require the auditor to
use specific terms or definitions.
UDITING
Communication of Deficiencies in Internal Control
Communication of Significant Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 9)
A12. Communicating significant deficiencies in writing to those charged with governance reflects the importance of these
matters, and assists those charged with governance in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities. SLAuS 260 establishes
relevant considerations regarding communication with those charged with governance when all of them are involved
in managing the entity.
6
A13. In determining when to issue the written communication, the auditor may consider whether receipt of such
communication would be an important factor in enabling those charged with governance to discharge their oversight
responsibilities. In addition, for listed entities in certain jurisdictions, those charged with governance may need to
receive the auditor’s written communication before the date of approval of the financial statements in order to
discharge specific responsibilities in relation to internal control for regulatory or other purposes. For other entities,
the auditor may issue the written communication at a later date. Nevertheless, in the latter case, as the auditor’s
written communication of significant deficiencies forms part of the final audit file, the written communication is
5 SLAuS 315, paragraph A66.
6 SLAuS 260, paragraph 13.

<!-- page 159 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
159A
subject to the overriding requirement7 for the auditor to complete the assembly of the final audit file on a timely basis.
SLAuS 230 states that an appropriate time limit within which to complete the assembly of the final audit file is
ordinarily not more than 60 days after the date of the auditor’s report.
8
A14. Regardless of the timing of the written communication of significant deficiencies, the auditor may communicate these
orally in the first instance to management and, when appropriate, to those charged with governance to assist them in
taking timely remedial action to minimize the risks of material misstatement. Doing so, however, does not relieve the
auditor of the responsibility to communicate the significant deficiencies in writing, as this SLAuS requires.
A15. The level of detail at which to communicate significant deficiencies is a matter of the auditor’s professional judgment
in the circumstances. Factors that the auditor may consider in determining an appropriate level of detail for the
communication include, for example:
* The nature of the entity. For instance, the communication required for a public interest entity may be different
from that for a non-public interest entity.
*  The size and complexity of the entity. For instance, the communication required for a complex entity may be
different from that for an entity operating a simple business.
* The nature of significant deficiencies that the auditor has identified.
* The entity’s governance composition. For instance, more detail may be needed if those charged with governance
include members who do not have significant experience in the entity’s industry or in the affected areas.
* Legal or regulatory requirements regarding the communication of specific types of deficiency in internal control.
A16. Management and those charged with governance may already be aware of significant deficiencies that the auditor
has identified during the audit and may have chosen not to remedy them because of cost or other considerations. The
responsibility for evaluating the costs and benefits of implementing remedial action rests with management and those
charged with governance. Accordingly, the requirement in paragraph 9 applies regardless of cost or other considerations
that management and those charged with governance may consider relevant in determining whether to remedy such
deficiencies.
A17. The fact that the auditor communicated a significant deficiency to those charged with governance and management
in a previous audit does not eliminate the need for the auditor to repeat the communication if remedial action has not
yet been taken. If a previously communicated significant deficiency remains, the current year’s communication may
repeat the description from the previous communication, or simply reference the previous communication. The
auditor may ask management or, where appropriate, those charged with governance, why the significant deficiency
has not yet been remedied. A failure to act, in the absence of a rational explanation, may in itself represent a significant
deficiency.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A18. In the case of audits of smaller entities, the auditor may communicate in a less structured manner with those charged
with governance than in the case of larger entities.
7 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraph 14.
8 SLAuS 230, paragraph A21.

<!-- page 160 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
160A
Communication of Deficiencies in Internal Control to Management (Ref: Para. 10)
A19. Ordinarily, the appropriate level of management is the one that has responsibility and authority to evaluate the
deficiencies in internal control and to take the necessary remedial action. For significant deficiencies, the appropriate
level is likely to be the chief executive officer or chief financial officer (or equivalent) as these matters are also required
to be communicated to those charged with governance. For other deficiencies in internal control, the appropriate
level may be operational management with more direct involvement in the control areas affected and with the authority
to take appropriate remedial action.
Communication of Significant Deficiencies in Internal Control to Management (Ref: Para. 10(a))
A20. Certain identified significant deficiencies in internal control may call into question the integrity or competence of
management. For example, there may be evidence of fraud or intentional non-compliance with laws and regulations by
management, or management may exhibit an inability to oversee the preparation of adequate financial statements that
may raise doubt about management’s competence. Accordingly, it may not be appropriate to communicate such
deficiencies directly to management.
A21. SLAuS 250 establishes requirements and provides guidance on the reporting of identified or suspected non-compliance
with laws and regulations, including when those charged with governance are themselves involved in such non-
compliance.
9 SLAuS 240 establishes requirements and provides guidance regarding communication to those charged
with governance when the auditor has identified fraud or suspected fraud involving management. 10
Communication of Other Deficiencies in Internal Control to Management (Ref: Para. 10(b))
A22. During the audit, the auditor may identify other deficiencies in internal control that are not significant deficiencies but
that may be of sufficient importance to merit management’s attention. The determination as to which other deficiencies
in internal control merit management’s attention is a matter of professional judgment in the circumstances, taking into
account the likelihood and potential magnitude of misstatements that may arise in the financial statements as a result
of those deficiencies.
A23. The communication of other deficiencies in internal control that merit management’s attention need not be in writing
but may be oral. Where the auditor has discussed the facts and circumstances of the auditor’s findings with
management, the auditor may consider an oral communication of the other deficiencies to have been made to
management at the time of these discussions. Accordingly, a formal communication need not be made subsequently.
A24. If the auditor has communicated deficiencies in internal control other than significant deficiencies to management in
a prior period and management has chosen not to remedy them for cost or other reasons, the auditor need not repeat
the communication in the current period. The auditor is also not required to repeat information about such deficiencies
if it has been previously communicated to management by other parties, such as internal auditors or regulators. It
may, however, be appropriate for the auditor to re-communicate these other deficiencies if there has been a change of
management, or if new information has come to the auditor’s attention that alters the prior understanding of the
auditor and management regarding the deficiencies. Nevertheless, the failure of management to remedy other
deficiencies in internal control that were previously communicated may become a significant deficiency requiring
communication with those charged with governance. Whether this is the case depends on the auditor’s judgment in
the circumstances.
9 SLAuS 250, “Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraphs 22-28.
10 SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraph 41.

<!-- page 161 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
161A
A25. In some circumstances, those charged with governance may wish to be made aware of the details of other deficiencies
in internal control the auditor has communicated to management, or be briefly informed of the nature of the other
deficiencies. Alternatively, the auditor may consider it appropriate to inform those charged with governance of the
communication of the other deficiencies to management. In either case, the auditor may report orally or in writing to
those charged with governance as appropriate.
A26. SLAuS 260 establishes relevant considerations regarding communication with those charged with governance when
all of them are involved in managing the entity.
11
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities (Ref: Para. 9-10)
A27. Public sector auditors may have additional responsibilities to communicate deficiencies in internal control that the
auditor has identified during the audit, in ways, at a level of detail and to parties not envisaged in this SLAuS. For
example, significant deficiencies may have to be communicated to the legislature or other governing body. Law,
regulation or other authority may also mandate that public sector auditors report deficiencies in internal control,
irrespective of the significance of the potential effects of those deficiencies. Further, legislation may require public
sector auditors to report on broader internal control-related matters than the deficiencies in internal control required
to be communicated by this SLAuS, for example, controls related to compliance with legislative authorities, regulations,
or provisions of contracts or grant agreements.
AUDITING
Content of Written Communication of Significant Deficiencies in Internal Control (Ref: Para. 11)
A28. In explaining the potential effects of the significant deficiencies, the auditor need not quantify those effects. The
significant deficiencies may be grouped together for reporting purposes where it is appropriate to do so. The auditor
may also include in the written communication suggestions for remedial action on the deficiencies, management’s
actual or proposed responses, and a statement as to whether or not the auditor has undertaken any steps to verify
whether management’s responses have been implemented.
A29. The auditor may consider it appropriate to include the following information as additional context for the communication:
* An indication that if the auditor had performed more extensive procedures on internal control, the auditor might
have identified more deficiencies to be reported, or concluded that some of the reported deficiencies need not,
in fact, have been reported.
* An indication that such communication has been provided for the purposes of those charged with governance,
and that it may not be suitable for other purposes.
A30. Law or regulation may require the auditor or management to furnish a copy of the auditor’s written communication on
significant deficiencies to appropriate regulatory authorities. Where this is the case, the auditor’s written communication
may identify such regulatory authorities.
11 SLAuS 260, paragraph 13.

<!-- page 162 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
162A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  300
PLANNING  AN AUDIT  OF  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ........ ................................................................... 1
The Role and Timing of Planning ........................................................ 2
Effective Date ..................................................................................... 3
Objective ............................................................................................ 4
Requirements
Involvement of Key Engagement Team Members .............................. 5
Preliminary Engagement Activities  .. ................................................... 6
Planning Activities  ...............................................................................  7-11
Documentation ..................................................................................... 12
Additional Considerations in Initial Audit Engagements .................... 13
Application and Other Explanatory Material
The Role and Timing of Planning  ....................................................... A1-A3
Involvement of Key Engagement Team Members .............................. A4
Preliminary Engagement Activities ..................................................... A5-A7
Planning Activities  ............................................................................... A8-A15
Documentation ..................................................................................... A16-A19
Additional Considerations in Initial Audit Engagements .................... A20
Appendix: Considerations in Establishing the Overall Audit Strategy
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 300, “Planning an Audit of Financial Statements” should
be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and
the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to plan an audit of financial statements.
This SLAuS is written in the context of recurring audits. Additional considerations in an initial audit engagement are
separately identified.
The Role and Timing of Planning
2. Planning an audit involves establishing the overall audit strategy for the engagement and developing an audit plan.
Adequate planning benefits the audit of financial statements in several ways, including the following: (Ref: Para.
A1-A3)
* Helping the auditor to devote appropriate attention to important areas of the audit.
* Helping the auditor identify and resolve potential problems on a timely basis.

<!-- page 163 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
163A
* Helping the auditor properly organize and manage the audit engagement so that it is performed in an effective
and efficient manner.
* Assisting in the selection of engagement team members with appropriate levels of capabilities and competence
to respond to anticipated risks, and the proper assignment of work to them.
* Facilitating the direction and supervision of engagement team members and the review of their work.
* Assisting, where applicable, in coordination of work done by auditors of components and experts.
Effective Date
3. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
4. The objective of the auditor is to plan the audit so that it will be performed in an effective manner.
Requirements
Involvement of Key Engagement Team Members
5. The engagement partner and other key members of the engagement team shall be involved in planning the audit,
including planning and participating in the discussion among engagement team members. (Ref: Para. A4)
Preliminary Engagement Activities
6. The auditor shall undertake the following activities at the beginning of the current audit engagement:
(a) Performing procedures required by SLAuS 220 regarding the continuance of the client relationship and the
specific audit engagement;
1
(b) Evaluating compliance with relevant ethical requirements, including independence, in accordance with SLAuS
220;2 and
(c) Establishing an understanding of the terms of the engagement, as required by SLAuS 210.3 (Ref: Para. A5-A7)
Planning Activities
7. The auditor shall establish an overall audit strategy that sets the scope, timing and direction of the audit, and that
guides the development of the audit plan.
8. In establishing the overall audit strategy, the auditor shall:
(a) Identify the characteristics of the engagement that define its scope;
(b) Ascertain the reporting objectives of the engagement to plan the timing of the audit and the nature of the
communications required;
(c) Consider the factors that, in the auditor’s professional judgment, are significant in directing the engagement
team’s efforts;
1 SLAuS 220, “Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraphs 12-13.
2 SLAuS 220, paragraphs 9-11.
3 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements,” paragraphs 9-13.

<!-- page 164 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
164A
(d) Consider the results of preliminary engagement activities and, where applicable, whether knowledge gained on
other engagements performed by the engagement partner for the entity is relevant; and
(e) Ascertain the nature, timing and extent of resources necessary to perform the engagement. (Ref: Para. A8-A11)
9. The auditor shall develop an audit plan that shall include a description of:
(a) The nature, timing and extent of planned risk assessment procedures, as determined under SLAuS 315. 4
(b) The nature, timing and extent of planned further audit procedures at the assertion level, as determined under
SLAuS 330.5
(c) Other planned audit procedures that are required to be carried out so that the engagement complies with
SLAuSs. (Ref: Para. A12)
10. The auditor shall update and change the overall audit strategy and the audit plan as necessary during the course of
the audit. (Ref: Para. A13)
11. The auditor shall plan the nature, timing and extent of direction and supervision of engagement team members and the
review of their work. (Ref: Para. A14- A15)
Documentation
12. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation: 6
(a) The overall audit strategy;
(b) The audit plan; and
(c) Any significant changes made during the audit engagement to the overall audit strategy or the audit plan, and
the reasons for such changes. (Ref: Para. A16-A19)
Additional Considerations in Initial Audit Engagements
13. The auditor shall undertake the following activities prior to starting an initial audit:
(a) Performing procedures required by SLAuS 220 regarding the acceptance of the client relationship and the
specific audit engagement; 7 and
(b) Communicating with the predecessor auditor, where there has been a change of auditors, in compliance with
relevant ethical requirements. (Ref: Para. A20)
Application and Other Explanatory Material
The Role and Timing of Planning (Ref: Para. 2)
A1. The nature and extent of planning activities will vary according to the size and complexity of the entity, the key
engagement team members’ previous experience with the entity, and changes in circumstances that occur during the
audit engagement.
4 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment.”
5 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”
6 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.
7 SLAuS 220, paragraphs 12-13.

<!-- page 165 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
165A
A2. Planning is not a discrete phase of an audit, but rather a continual and iterative process that often begins shortly after
(or in connection with) the completion of the previous audit and continues until the completion of the current audit
engagement. Planning, however, includes consideration of the timing of certain activities and audit procedures that
need to be completed prior to the performance of further audit procedures. For example, planning includes the need
to consider, prior to the auditor’s identification and assessment of the risks of material misstatement, such matters as:
* The analytical procedures to be applied as risk assessment procedures.
* Obtaining a general understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the entity and how the
entity is complying with that framework.
* The determination of materiality.
* The involvement of experts.
* The performance of other risk assessment procedures.
A3. The auditor may decide to discuss elements of planning with the entity’s management to facilitate the conduct and
management of the audit engagement (for example, to coordinate some of the planned audit procedures with the work
of the entity’s personnel). Although these discussions often occur, the overall audit strategy and the audit plan
remain the auditor’s responsibility. When discussing matters included in the overall audit strategy or audit plan, care
is required in order not to compromise the effectiveness of the audit. For example, discussing the nature and timing of
detailed audit procedures with management may compromise the effectiveness of the audit by making the audit
procedures too predictable.
Involvement of Key Engagement Team Members (Ref: Para. 5)
A4. The involvement of the engagement partner and other key members of the engagement team in planning the audit
draws on their experience and insight, thereby enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of the planning process.
8
Preliminary Engagement Activities (Ref: Para. 6)
A5. Performing the preliminary engagement activities specified in paragraph 6 at the beginning of the current audit
engagement assists the auditor in identifying and evaluating events or circumstances that may adversely affect the
auditor’s ability to plan and perform the audit engagement.
AUDITING
A6. Performing these preliminary engagement activities enables the auditor to plan an audit engagement for which, for
example:
* The auditor maintains the necessary independence and ability to perform the engagement.
* There are no issues with management integrity that may affect the auditor’s willingness to continue the
engagement.
* There is no misunderstanding with the client as to the terms of the engagement.
A7. The auditor’s consideration of client continuance and relevant ethical requirements, including independence, occurs
throughout the audit engagement as conditions and changes in circumstances occur. Performing initial procedures
on both client continuance and evaluation of relevant ethical requirements (including independence) at the beginning
of the current audit engagement means that they are completed prior to the performance of other significant activities
for the current audit engagement. For continuing audit engagements, such initial procedures often occur shortly after
(or in connection with) the completion of the previous audit.
8  SLAuS 315, paragraph 10, establishes requirements and provides guidance on the engagement team’s discussion of the susceptibil ity of
the entity to material misstatements of the financial statements. SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an
Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraph 15, provides guidance on the emphasis given during this discussion to the susceptibil ity of the
entity’s financial statements to material misstatement due to fraud.

<!-- page 166 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
166A
Planning Activities
The Overall Audit Strategy (Ref: Para. 7-8)
A8. The process of establishing the overall audit strategy assists the auditor to determine, subject to the completion of
the auditor’s risk assessment procedures, such matters as:
* The resources to deploy for specific audit areas, such as the use of appropriately experienced team members for
high risk areas or the involvement of experts on complex matters;
* The amount of resources to allocate to specific audit areas, such as the number of team members assigned to
observe the inventory count at material locations, the extent of review of other auditors’ work in the case of
group audits, or the audit budget in hours to allocate to high risk areas;
* When these resources are to be deployed, such as whether at an interim audit stage or at key cut-off dates; and
* How such resources are managed, directed and supervised, such as when team briefing and debriefing meetings
are expected to be held, how engagement partner and manager reviews are expected to take place (for example,
on-site or off-site), and whether to complete engagement quality control reviews.
A9. The Appendix lists examples of considerations in establishing the overall audit strategy.
A10. Once the overall audit strategy has been established, an audit plan can be developed to address the various matters
identified in the overall audit strategy, taking into account the need to achieve the audit objectives through the
efficient use of the auditor’s resources. The establishment of the overall audit strategy and the detailed audit plan are
not necessarily discrete or sequential processes, but are closely inter-related since changes in one may result in
consequential changes to the other.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A11. In audits of small entities, the entire audit may be conducted by a very small audit team. Many audits of small entities
involve the engagement partner (who may be a sole practitioner) working with one engagement team member (or
without any engagement team members). With a smaller team, co-ordination of, and communication between, team
members are easier. Establishing the overall audit strategy for the audit of a small entity need not be a complex or time-
consuming exercise; it varies according to the size of the entity, the complexity of the audit, and the size of the
engagement team. For example, a brief memorandum prepared at the completion of the previous audit, based on a
review of the working papers and highlighting issues identified in the audit just completed, updated in the current
period based on discussions with the owner-manager, can serve as the documented audit strategy for the current
audit engagement if it covers the matters noted in paragraph 8.
The Audit Plan (Ref: Para. 9)
A12. The audit plan is more detailed than the overall audit strategy in that it includes the nature, timing and extent of audit
procedures to be performed by engagement team members. Planning for these audit procedures takes place over the
course of the audit as the audit plan for the engagement develops. For example, planning of the auditor’s risk
assessment procedures occurs early in the audit process. However, planning the nature, timing and extent of specific
further audit procedures depends on the outcome of those risk assessment procedures. In addition, the auditor may
begin the execution of further audit procedures for some classes of transactions, account balances and disclosures
before planning all remaining further audit procedures.

<!-- page 167 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
167A
Changes to Planning Decisions during the Course of the Audit (Ref: Para. 10)
A13. As a result of unexpected events, changes in conditions, or the audit evidence obtained from the results of audit
procedures, the auditor may need to modify the overall audit strategy and audit plan and thereby the resulting
planned nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures, based on the revised consideration of assessed risks.
This may be the case when information comes to the auditor’s attention that differs significantly from the information
available when the auditor planned the audit procedures. For example, audit evidence obtained through the performance
of substantive procedures may contradict the audit evidence obtained through tests of controls.
Direction, Supervision and Review (Ref: Para. 11)
A14. The nature, timing and extent of the direction and supervision of engagement team members and review of their work
vary depending on many factors, including:
* The size and complexity of the entity.
* The area of the audit.
* The assessed risks of material misstatement (for example, an increase in the assessed risk of material misstatement
for a given area of the audit ordinarily requires a corresponding increase in the extent and timeliness of direction
and supervision of engagement team members, and a more detailed review of their work).
* The capabilities and competence of the individual team members performing the audit work.
SLAuS 220 contains further guidance on the direction, supervision and review of audit work.
9
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A15. If an audit is carried out entirely by the engagement partner, questions of direction and supervision of engagement
team members and review of their work do not arise. In such cases, the engagement partner, having personally
conducted all aspects of the work, will be aware of all material issues. Forming an objective view on the appropriateness
of the judgments made in the course of the audit can present practical problems when the same individual also
performs the entire audit. If particularly complex or unusual issues are involved, and the audit is performed by a sole
practitioner, it may be desirable to consult with other suitably-experienced auditors or the auditor’s professional
body.
Documentation (Ref: Para. 12)
A16. The documentation of the overall audit strategy is a record of the key decisions considered necessary to properly
plan the audit and to communicate significant matters to the engagement team. For example, the auditor may summarize
the overall audit strategy in the form of a memorandum that contains key decisions regarding the overall scope, timing
and conduct of the audit.
A17. The documentation of the audit plan is a record of the planned nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures
and further audit procedures at the assertion level in response to the assessed risks. It also serves as a record of the
proper planning of the audit procedures that can be reviewed and approved prior to their performance. The auditor
may use standard audit programs or audit completion checklists, tailored as needed to reflect the particular engagement
circumstances.
A18. A record of the significant changes to the overall audit strategy and the audit plan, and resulting changes to the
planned nature, timing and extent of audit procedures, explains why the significant changes were made, and the
overall strategy and audit plan finally adopted for the audit. It also reflects the appropriate response to the significant
changes occurring during the audit.
9 SLAuS 220, paragraphs 15-17.

<!-- page 168 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
168A
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A19. As discussed in paragraph A11, a suitable, brief memorandum may serve as the documented strategy for the audit of
a smaller entity. For the audit plan, standard audit programs or checklists (see paragraph A17) drawn up on the
assumption of few relevant control activities, as is likely to be the case in a smaller entity, may be used provided that
they are tailored to the circumstances of the engagement, including the auditor’s risk assessments.
Additional Considerations in Initial Audit Engagements (Ref: Para. 13)
A20. The purpose and objective of planning the audit are the same whether the audit is an initial or recurring engagement.
However, for an initial audit, the auditor may need to expand the planning activities because the auditor does not
ordinarily have the previous experience with the entity that is considered when planning recurring engagements. For
an initial audit engagement, additional matters the auditor may consider in establishing the overall audit strategy and
audit plan include the following:
* Unless prohibited by law or regulation, arrangements to be made with the predecessor auditor, for example, to
review the predecessor auditor’s working papers.
* Any major issues (including the application of accounting principles or of auditing and reporting standards)
discussed with management in connection with the initial selection as auditor, the communication of these
matters to those charged with governance and how these matters affect the overall audit strategy and audit
plan.
* The audit procedures necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding opening balances.
10
·N G
* Other procedures required by the firm’s system of quality control for initial audit engagements (for example, the
firm’s system of quality control may require the involvement of another partner or senior individual to review
the overall audit strategy prior to commencing significant audit procedures or to review reports prior to their
issuance).
Appendix
(Ref: Para. 7-8, A8-A11)
Considerations in Establishing the Overall Audit Strategy
This appendix provides examples of matters the auditor may consider in establishing the overall audit strategy. Many of
these matters will also influence the auditor’s detailed audit plan. The examples provided cover a broad range of matters
applicable to many engagements. While some of the matters referred to below may be required by other SLAuSs, not all
matters are relevant to every audit engagement and the list is not necessarily complete.
Characteristics of the Engagement
* The financial reporting framework on which the financial information to be audited has been prepared, including any
need for reconciliations to another financial reporting framework.
* Industry-specific reporting requirements such as reports mandated by industry regulators.
* The expected audit coverage, including the number and locations of components to be included.
* The nature of the control relationships between a parent and its components that determine how the group is to be
consolidated.
10 SLAuS 510, “Initial Audit Engagements—Opening Balances.”

<!-- page 169 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
169A
* The extent to which components are audited by other auditors.
* The nature of the business segments to be audited, including the need for specialized knowledge.
* The reporting currency to be used, including any need for currency translation for the financial information audited.
* The need for a statutory audit of standalone financial statements in addition to an audit for consolidation purposes.
* The availability of the work of internal auditors and the extent of the auditor’s potential reliance on such work.
* The entity’s use of service organizations and how the auditor may obtain evidence concerning the design or operation
of controls performed by them.
* The expected use of audit evidence obtained in previous audits, for example, audit evidence related to risk assessment
procedures and tests of controls.
* The effect of information technology on the audit procedures, including the availability of data and the expected use
of computer-assisted audit techniques.
·AUDITING
* The coordination of the expected coverage and timing of the audit work with any reviews of interim financial information
and the effect on the audit of the information obtained during such reviews.
* The availability of client personnel and data.
Reporting Objectives, Timing of the Audit, and Nature of Communications
* The entity’s timetable for reporting, such as at interim and final stages.
* The organization of meetings with management and those charged with governance to discuss the nature, timing and
extent of the audit work.
* The discussion with management and those charged with governance regarding the expected type and timing of
reports to be issued and other communications, both written and oral, including the auditor’s report, management
letters and communications to those charged with governance.
* The discussion with management regarding the expected communications on the status of audit work throughout the
engagement.
* Communication with auditors of components regarding the expected types and timing of reports to be issued and
other communications in connection with the audit of components.
* The expected nature and timing of communications among engagement team members, including the nature and
timing of team meetings and timing of the review of work performed.
* Whether there are any other expected communications with third parties, including any statutory or contractual
reporting responsibilities arising from the audit.

<!-- page 170 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
170A
Significant Factors, Preliminary Engagement Activities, and Knowledge Gained on Other Engagements
* The determination of materiality in accordance with SLAuS 32011 and, where applicable:
o The determination of materiality for components and communication thereof to component auditors in
accordance with SLAuS 600.12
o The preliminary identification of significant components and material classes of transactions, account
balances and disclosures.
* Preliminary identification of areas where there may be a higher risk of material misstatement.
* The impact of the assessed risk of material misstatement at the overall financial statement level on direction, supervision
and review.
* The manner in which the auditor emphasizes to engagement team members the need to maintain a questioning mind
and to exercise professional skepticism in gathering and evaluating audit evidence.
* Results of previous audits that involved evaluating the operating effectiveness of internal control, including the
nature of identified deficiencies and action taken to address them.
* The discussion of matters that may affect the audit with firm personnel responsible for performing other services to
the entity.
* Evidence of management’s commitment to the design, implementation and maintenance of sound internal control,
including evidence of appropriate documentation of such internal control.
* V olume of transactions, which may determine whether it is more efficient for the auditor to rely on internal control.
* Importance attached to internal control throughout the entity to the successful operation of the business.
* Significant business developments affecting the entity, including changes in information technology and business
processes, changes in key management, and acquisitions, mergers and divestments.
* Significant industry developments such as changes in industry regulations and new reporting requirements.
* Significant changes in the financial reporting framework, such as changes in accounting standards.
* Other significant relevant developments, such as changes in the legal environment affecting the entity.
Nature, Timing and Extent of Resources
* The selection of the engagement team (including, where necessary, the engagement quality control reviewer) and the
assignment of audit work to the team members, including the assignment of appropriately experienced team members
to areas where there may be higher risks of material misstatement.
* Engagement budgeting, including considering the appropriate amount of time to set aside for areas where there may
be higher risks of material misstatement.
11 SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit.”
12 SLAuS 600, “Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements” (Including the Work of Component Auditors), paragraphs
21-23 and 40(c).

<!-- page 171 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
171A
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 315
IDENTIFYING AND ASSESSING THE RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT THROUGH
UNDERSTANDING THE ENTITY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ......................................................................... 1
Effective Date  …………..................................................................... 2
Objective ........................................................................................... 3
Definitions ......................................................................................... 4
Requirements
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ......................... 5-10
The Required Understanding of the Entity and Its Environment,
Including the Entity’s Internal Control ...................................... 11-24
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement ... ...... 25-31
Documentation ................................................................................... 32
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ......................... A1-A16
The Required Understanding of the Entity and Its Environment,
Including the Entity’s Internal Control ...................................... A17-A104
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement ........ A105-A130
Documentation ...................................................................................A131-A134
Appendix 1: Internal Control Components
Appendix 2: Conditions and Events That May Indicate Risks of
Material Misstatement
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material
Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment” should be read in
conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct
of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
DITING
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to identify and assess the risks of
material misstatement in the financial statements, through understanding the entity and its environment, including
the entity’s internal control.
Effective Date
2. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.

<!-- page 172 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
172A
Objective
3. The objective of the auditor is to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
at the financial statement and assertion levels, through understanding the entity and its environment, including the
entity’s internal control, thereby providing a basis for designing and implementing responses to the assessed risks of
material misstatement.
Definitions
4. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Assertions – Representations by management, explicit or otherwise, that are embodied in the financial statements,
as used by the auditor to consider the different types of potential misstatements that may occur.
(b) Business risk – A risk resulting from significant conditions, events, circumstances, actions or inactions that
could adversely affect an entity’s ability to achieve its objectives and execute its strategies, or from the setting
of inappropriate objectives and strategies.
(c) Internal control – The process designed, implemented and maintained by those charged with governance,
management and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance about the achievement of an entity’s objectives
with regard to reliability of financial reporting, effectiveness and efficiency of operations, and compliance with
applicable laws and regulations. The term “controls” refers to any aspects of one or more of the components of
internal control.
(d) Risk assessment procedures – The audit procedures performed to obtain an understanding of the entity and its
environment, including the entity’s internal control, to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, at the financial statement and assertion levels.
(e) Significant risk – An identified and assessed risk of material misstatement that, in the auditor’s judgment,
requires special audit consideration.
Requirements
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities
5. The auditor shall perform risk assessment procedures to provide a basis for the identification and assessment of risks
of material misstatement at the financial statement and assertion levels. Risk assessment procedures by themselves,
however, do not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the audit opinion. (Ref: Para. A1-A5)
6. The risk assessment procedures shall include the following:
(a) Inquiries of management, and of others within the entity who in the auditor’s judgment may have information
that is likely to assist in identifying risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error. (Ref: Para. A6)
(b) Analytical procedures. (Ref: Para. A7-A10)
(c) Observation and inspection. (Ref: Para. A11)
7. The auditor shall consider whether information obtained from the auditor’s client acceptance or continuance process
is relevant to identifying risks of material misstatement.
8. If the engagement partner has performed other engagements for the entity, the engagement partner shall consider
whether information obtained is relevant to identifying risks of material misstatement.

<!-- page 173 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
173A
9. Where the auditor intends to use information obtained from the auditor’s previous experience with the entity and
from audit procedures performed in previous audits, the auditor shall determine whether changes have occurred since
the previous audit that may affect its relevance to the current audit. (Ref: Para. A12-A13)
10. The engagement partner and other key engagement team members shall discuss the susceptibility of the entity’s
financial statements to material misstatement, and the application of the applicable financial reporting framework to
the entity’s facts and circumstances. The engagement partner shall determine which matters are to be communicated
to engagement team members not involved in the discussion. (Ref: Para. A14-A16)
AUDITING
The Required Understanding of the Entity and Its Environment, Including the Entity’s Internal Control
The Entity and Its Environment
11. The auditor shall obtain an understanding of the following:
(a) Relevant industry, regulatory, and other external factors including the applicable financial reporting framework.
(Ref: Para. A17-A22)
(b) The nature of the entity, including:
(i) its operations;
(ii) its ownership and governance structures;
(iii) the types of investments that the entity is making and plans to make, including investments in special-
purpose entities; and
(iv) the way that the entity is structured and how it is financed
to enable the auditor to understand the classes of transactions, account balances, and disclosures to be
expected in the financial statements.(Ref: Para. A23-A27)
(c) The entity’s selection and application of accounting policies, including the reasons for changes thereto. The
auditor shall evaluate whether the entity’s accounting policies are appropriate for its business and consistent
with the applicable financial reporting framework and accounting policies used in the relevant industry. (Ref:
Para. A28)
(d) The entity’s objectives and strategies, and those related business risks that may result in risks of material
misstatement. (Ref: Para. A29-A35)
(e) The measurement and review of the entity’s financial performance. (Ref: Para. A36-A41)
The Entity’ s Internal Control
12. The auditor shall obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit. Although most controls relevant
to the audit are likely to relate to financial reporting, not all controls that relate to financial reporting are relevant to the
audit. It is a matter of the auditor’s professional judgment whether a control, individually or in combination with
others, is relevant to the audit. (Ref: Para. A42-A65)
Nature and Extent of the Understanding of Relevant Controls
13. When obtaining an understanding of controls that are relevant to the audit, the auditor shall evaluate the design of
those controls and determine whether they have been implemented, by performing procedures in addition to inquiry
of the entity’s personnel. (Ref: Para. A66-A68)

<!-- page 174 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
174A
Components of Internal Control
Control environment
14. The auditor shall obtain an understanding of the control environment. As part of obtaining this understanding, the
auditor shall evaluate whether:
(a) Management, with the oversight of those charged with governance, has created and maintained a culture of
honesty and ethical behavior; and
(b) The strengths in the control environment elements collectively provide an appropriate foundation for the other
components of internal control, and whether those other components are not undermined by deficiencies in the
control environment. (Ref: Para. A69-A78)
The entity’s risk assessment process
15. The auditor shall obtain an understanding of whether the entity has a process for:
(a) Identifying business risks relevant to financial reporting objectives;
(b) Estimating the significance of the risks;
(c) Assessing the likelihood of their occurrence; and
(d) Deciding about actions to address those risks. (Ref: Para. A79)
16. If the entity has established such a process (referred to hereafter as the “entity’s risk assessment process”), the
auditor shall obtain an understanding of it, and the results thereof. If the auditor identifies risks of material misstatement
that management failed to identify, the auditor shall evaluate whether there was an underlying risk of a kind that the
auditor expects would have been identified by the entity’s risk assessment process. If there is such a risk, the auditor
shall obtain an understanding of why that process failed to identify it, and evaluate whether the process is appropriate
to its circumstances or determine if there is a significant deficiency in internal control with regard to the entity’s risk
assessment process.
17. If the entity has not established such a process or has an ad hoc process, the auditor shall discuss with management
whether business risks relevant to financial reporting objectives have been identified and how they have been
addressed. The auditor shall evaluate whether the absence of a documented risk assessment process is appropriate
in the circumstances, or determine whether it represents a significant deficiency in internal control. (Ref: Para. A80)
UDITING
The information system, including the related business processes, relevant to financial reporting, and communication
18. The auditor shall obtain an understanding of the information system, including the related business processes,
relevant to financial reporting, including the following areas:
(a) The classes of transactions in the entity’s operations that are significant to the financial statements;
(b) The procedures, within both information technology (IT) and manual systems, by which those transactions are
initiated, recorded, processed, corrected as necessary, transferred to the general ledger and reported in the
financial statements;
(c) The related accounting records, supporting information and specific accounts in the financial statements that
are used to initiate, record, process and report transactions; this includes the correction of incorrect information
and how information is transferred to the general ledger. The records may be in either manual or electronic form;

<!-- page 175 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
175A
(d) How the information system captures events and conditions, other than transactions, that are significant to the
financial statements;
(e) The financial reporting process used to prepare the entity’s financial statements, including significant accounting
estimates and disclosures; and
(f) Controls surrounding journal entries, including non-standard journal entries used to record non-recurring,
unusual transactions or adjustments. (Ref: Para. A81-A85)
19. The auditor shall obtain an understanding of how the entity communicates financial reporting roles and responsibilities
and significant matters relating to financial reporting, including: (Ref: Para. A86-A87)
(a) Communications between management and those charged with governance; and
(b) External communications, such as those with regulatory authorities.
Control activities relevant to the audit
20. The auditor shall obtain an understanding of control activities relevant to the audit, being those the auditor judges
it necessary to understand in order to assess the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level and design
further audit procedures responsive to assessed risks. An audit does not require an understanding of all the control
activities related to each significant class of transactions, account balance, and disclosure in the financial statements
or to every assertion relevant to them. (Ref: Para. A88-A94)
21. In understanding the entity’s control activities, the auditor shall obtain an understanding of how the entity has
responded to risks arising from IT. (Ref: Para. A95-A97)
Monitoring of controls
22. The auditor shall obtain an understanding of the major activities that the entity uses to monitor internal control over
financial reporting, including those related to those control activities relevant to the audit, and how the entity initiates
remedial actions to deficiencies in its controls. (Ref: Para. A98-A100)
23. If the entity has an internal audit function,
1 the auditor shall obtain an understanding of the following in order to
determine whether the internal audit function is likely to be relevant to the audit:
(a) The nature of the internal audit function’s responsibilities and how the internal audit function fits in the entity’s
organizational structure; and
(b) The activities performed, or to be performed, by the internal audit function. (Ref: Para. A101-A103)
24. The auditor shall obtain an understanding of the sources of the information used in the entity’s monitoring activities,
and the basis upon which management considers the information to be sufficiently reliable for the purpose. (Ref:
Para. A104)
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement
25. The auditor shall identify and assess the risks of material misstatement at:
(a) the financial statement level; and (Ref: Para. A105-A108)
(b) the assertion level for classes of transactions, account balances, and disclosures (Ref: Para. A109-A113)
to provide a basis for designing and performing further audit procedures.
1 The term “internal audit function” is defined in SLAuS 610, “Using the Work of Internal Auditors,” paragraph 7(a), as: “An appr aisal
activity established or provided as a service to the entity. Its functions include, amongst other things, examining, evaluating  and
monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control.”

<!-- page 176 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
176A
26. For this purpose, the auditor shall:
(a) Identify risks throughout the process of obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including
relevant controls that relate to the risks, and by considering the classes of transactions, account balances, and
disclosures in the financial statements; (Ref: Para. A114-A115)
AUDITING
(b) Assess the identified risks, and evaluate whether they relate more pervasively to the financial statements as a
whole and potentially affect many assertions;
(c) Relate the identified risks to what can go wrong at the assertion level, taking account of relevant controls that
the auditor intends to test; and (Ref: Para. A116-A118)
(d) Consider the likelihood of misstatement, including the possibility of multiple misstatements, and whether the
potential misstatement is of a magnitude that could result in a material misstatement.
Risks That Require Special Audit Consideration
27. As part of the risk assessment as described in paragraph 25, the auditor shall determine whether any of the risks
identified are, in the auditor’s judgment, a significant risk. In exercising this judgment, the auditor shall exclude the
effects of identified controls related to the risk.
28. In exercising judgment as to which risks are significant risks, the auditor shall consider at least the following:
(a) Whether the risk is a risk of fraud;
(b) Whether the risk is related to recent significant economic, accounting or other developments and, therefore,
requires specific attention;
(c) The complexity of transactions;
(d) Whether the risk involves significant transactions with related parties;
(e) The degree of subjectivity in the measurement of financial information related to the risk, especially those
measurements involving a wide range of measurement uncertainty; and
(f) Whether the risk involves significant transactions that are outside the normal course of business for the entity,
or that otherwise appear to be unusual. (Ref: Para. A119-A123)
29. If the auditor has determined that a significant risk exists, the auditor shall obtain an understanding of the entity’s
controls, including control activities, relevant to that risk. (Ref: Para. A124-A126)
Risks for Which Substantive Procedures Alone Do Not Provide Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence
30. In respect of some risks, the auditor may judge that it is not possible or practicable to obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence only from substantive procedures. Such risks may relate to the inaccurate or incomplete recording of
routine and significant classes of transactions or account balances, the characteristics of which often permit highly
automated processing with little or no manual intervention. In such cases, the entity’s controls over such risks are
relevant to the audit and the auditor shall obtain an understanding of them. (Ref: Para. A127-A129)
Revision of Risk Assessment
31. The auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level may change during the course of
the audit as additional audit evidence is obtained. In circumstances where the auditor obtains audit evidence from
performing further audit procedures, or if new information is obtained, either of which is inconsistent with the audit
evidence on which the auditor originally based the assessment, the auditor shall revise the assessment and modify
the further planned audit procedures accordingly. (Ref: Para. A130)

<!-- page 177 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
177A
Documentation
32. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation: 2
(a) The discussion among the engagement team where required by paragraph 10, and the significant decisions
reached;
(b) Key elements of the understanding obtained regarding each of the aspects of the entity and its environment
specified in paragraph 11 and of each of the internal control components specified in paragraphs 14-24; the
sources of information from which the understanding was obtained; and the risk assessment procedures
performed;
(c) The identified and assessed risks of material misstatement at the financial statement level and at the assertion
level as required by paragraph 25; and
(d) The risks identified, and related controls about which the auditor has obtained an understanding, as a result of
the requirements in paragraphs 27-30. (Ref: Para. A131-A134)
* * *
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities (Ref: Para. 5)
A1. Obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including the entity’s internal control (referred to
hereafter as an “understanding of the entity”), is a continuous, dynamic process of gathering, updating and analyzing
information throughout the audit. The understanding establishes a frame of reference within which the auditor plans
the audit and exercises professional judgment throughout the audit, for example, when:
* Assessing risks of material misstatement of the financial statements;
* Determining materiality in accordance with SLAuS 320;
3
* Considering the appropriateness of the selection and application of accounting policies, and the adequacy of
financial statement disclosures;
* Identifying areas where special audit consideration may be necessary, for example, related party transactions,
the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern assumption, or considering the business
purpose of transactions;
* Developing expectations for use when performing analytical procedures;
* Responding to the assessed risks of material misstatement, including designing and performing further audit
procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence; and
* Evaluating the sufficiency and appropriateness of audit evidence obtained, such as the appropriateness of
assumptions and of management’s oral and written representations.
A2. Information obtained by performing risk assessment procedures and related activities may be used by the auditor as
audit evidence to support assessments of the risks of material misstatement. In addition, the auditor may obtain audit
evidence about classes of transactions, account balances, or disclosures and related assertions and about the
operating effectiveness of controls, even though such procedures were not specifically planned as substantive
procedures or as tests of controls. The auditor also may choose to perform substantive procedures or tests of
controls concurrently with risk assessment procedures because it is efficient to do so.
2 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.
3 SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit.”

<!-- page 178 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
178A
A3. The auditor uses professional judgment to determine the extent of the understanding required. The auditor’s primary
consideration is whether the understanding that has been obtained is sufficient to meet the objective stated in this
SLAuS. The depth of the overall understanding that is required by the auditor is less than that possessed by
management in managing the entity.
A4. The risks to be assessed include both those due to error and those due to fraud, and both are covered by this SLAuS.
However, the significance of fraud is such that further requirements and guidance are included in SLAuS 240 in
relation to risk assessment procedures and related activities to obtain information that is used to identify the risks of
material misstatement due to fraud.
4
A5. Although the auditor is required to perform all the risk assessment procedures described in paragraph 6 in the course
of obtaining the required understanding of the entity (see paragraphs 11-24), the auditor is not required to perform all
of them for each aspect of that understanding. Other procedures may be performed where the information to be
obtained therefrom may be helpful in identifying risks of material misstatement. Examples of such procedures include:
* Reviewing information obtained from external sources such as trade and economic journals; reports by analysts,
banks, or rating agencies; or regulatory or financial publications.
* Making inquiries of the entity’s external legal counsel or of valuation experts that the entity has used.
Inquiries of Management and Others within the Entity (Ref: Para. 6(a))
A6. Much of the information obtained by the auditor’s inquiries is obtained from management and those responsible for
financial reporting. However, the auditor may also obtain information, or a different perspective in identifying risks of
material misstatement, through inquiries of others within the entity and other employees with different levels of
authority. For example:
* Inquiries directed towards those charged with governance may help the auditor understand the environment in
which the financial statements are prepared.
* Inquiries directed toward internal audit personnel may provide information about internal audit procedures
performed during the year relating to the design and effectiveness of the entity’s internal control and whether
management has satisfactorily responded to findings from those procedures.
* Inquiries of employees involved in initiating, processing or recording complex or unusual transactions may
help the auditor to evaluate the appropriateness of the selection and application of certain accounting policies.
* Inquiries directed toward in-house legal counsel may provide information about such matters as litigation,
compliance with laws and regulations, knowledge of fraud or suspected fraud affecting the entity, warranties,
post-sales obligations, arrangements (such as joint ventures) with business partners and the meaning of
contract terms.
* Inquiries directed towards marketing or sales personnel may provide information about changes in the entity’s
marketing strategies, sales trends, or contractual arrangements with its customers.
Analytical Procedures (Ref: Para. 6(b))
A7. Analytical procedures performed as risk assessment procedures may identify aspects of the entity of which the
auditor was unaware and may assist in assessing the risks of material misstatement in order to provide a basis for
designing and implementing responses to the assessed risks. Analytical procedures performed as risk assessment
procedures may include both financial and non-financial information, for example, the relationship between sales and
square footage of selling space or volume of goods sold.
4 SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraphs 12-24.

<!-- page 179 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
179A
A8. Analytical procedures may help identify the existence of unusual transactions or events, and amounts, ratios, and
trends that might indicate matters that have audit implications. Unusual or unexpected relationships that are identified
may assist the auditor in identifying risks of material misstatement, especially risks of material misstatement due to
fraud.
A9. However, when such analytical procedures use data aggregated at a high level (which may be the situation with
analytical procedures performed as risk assessment procedures), the results of those analytical procedures only
provide a broad initial indication about whether a material misstatement may exist. Accordingly, in such cases,
consideration of other information that has been gathered when identifying the risks of material misstatement together
with the results of such analytical procedures may assist the auditor in understanding and evaluating the results of
the analytical procedures.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A10. Some smaller entities may not have interim or monthly financial information that can be used for purposes of analytical
procedures. In these circumstances, although the auditor may be able to perform limited analytical procedures for
purposes of planning the audit or obtain some information through inquiry, the auditor may need to plan to perform
analytical procedures to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement when an early draft of the entity’s
financial statements is available.
Observation and Inspection (Ref: Para. 6(c))
A11. Observation and inspection may support inquiries of management and others, and may also provide information
about the entity and its environment. Examples of such audit procedures include observation or inspection of the
following:
* The entity’s operations.
* Documents (such as business plans and strategies), records, and internal control manuals.
* Reports prepared by management (such as quarterly management reports and interim financial statements) and
those charged with governance (such as minutes of board of directors’ meetings).
* The entity’s premises and plant facilities.
Information Obtained in Prior Periods (Ref: Para. 9)
A12. The auditor’s previous experience with the entity and audit procedures performed in previous audits may provide the
auditor with information about such matters as:
* Past misstatements and whether they were corrected on a timely basis.
* The nature of the entity and its environment, and the entity’s internal control (including deficiencies in internal
control).
* Significant changes that the entity or its operations may have undergone since the prior financial period, which
may assist the auditor in gaining a sufficient understanding of the entity to identify and assess risks of material
misstatement.
A13. The auditor is required to determine whether information obtained in prior periods remains relevant, if the auditor
intends to use that information for the purposes of the current audit. This is because changes in the control environment,
for example, may affect the relevance of information obtained in the prior year. To determine whether changes have
occurred that may affect the relevance of such information, the auditor may make inquiries and perform other appropriate
audit procedures, such as walk-throughs of relevant systems.

<!-- page 180 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
180A
Discussion among the Engagement Team (Ref: Para. 10)
A14. The discussion among the engagement team about the susceptibility of the entity’s financial statements to material
misstatement:
* Provides an opportunity for more experienced engagement team members, including the engagement partner, to
share their insights based on their knowledge of the entity.
* Allows the engagement team members to exchange information about the business risks to which the entity is
subject and about how and where the financial statements might be susceptible to material misstatement due to
fraud or error.
* Assists the engagement team members to gain a better understanding of the potential for material misstatement
of the financial statements in the specific areas assigned to them, and to understand how the results of the audit
procedures that they perform may affect other aspects of the audit including the decisions about the nature,
timing, and extent of further audit procedures.
* Provides a basis upon which engagement team members communicate and share new information obtained
throughout the audit that may affect the assessment of risks of material misstatement or the audit procedures
performed to address these risks.
SLAuS 240 provides further requirements and guidance in relation to the discussion among the engagement team
about the risks of fraud.
5
A15. It is not always necessary or practical for the discussion to include all members in a single discussion (as, for example,
in a multi-location audit), nor is it necessary for all of the members of the engagement team to be informed of all of the
decisions reached in the discussion. The engagement partner may discuss matters with key members of the engagement
team including, if considered appropriate, specialists and those responsible for the audits of components, while
delegating discussion with others, taking account of the extent of communication considered necessary throughout
the engagement team. A communications plan, agreed by the engagement partner, may be useful.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A16. Many small audits are carried out entirely by the engagement partner (who may be a sole practitioner). In such
situations, it is the engagement partner who, having personally conducted the planning of the audit, would be
responsible for considering the susceptibility of the entity’s financial statements to material misstatement due to
fraud or error.
The Required Understanding of the Entity and Its Environment, Including the Entity’s Internal Control
The Entity and Its Environment
Industry, Regulatory and Other External Factors (Ref: Para. 11(a))
Industry Factors
A17. Relevant industry factors include industry conditions such as the competitive environment, supplier and customer
relationships, and technological developments. Examples of matters the auditor may consider include:
5 SLAuS 240, paragraph 15.

<!-- page 181 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
181A
* The market and competition, including demand, capacity, and price competition.
* Cyclical or seasonal activity.
* Product technology relating to the entity’s products.
* Energy supply and cost.
A18. The industry in which the entity operates may give rise to specific risks of material misstatement arising from the
nature of the business or the degree of regulation. For example, long-term contracts may involve significant estimates
of revenues and expenses that give rise to risks of material misstatement. In such cases, it is important that the
engagement team include members with sufficient relevant knowledge and experience.
6
Regulatory Factors
A19. Relevant regulatory factors include the regulatory environment. The regulatory environment encompasses, among
other matters, the applicable financial reporting framework and the legal and political environment. Examples of
matters the auditor may consider include:
* Accounting principles and industry specific practices.
* Regulatory framework for a regulated industry.
* Legislation and regulation that significantly affect the entity’s operations, including direct supervisory activities.
* Taxation (corporate and other).
* Government policies currently affecting the conduct of the entity’s business, such as monetary, including
foreign exchange controls, fiscal, financial incentives (for example, government aid programs), and tariffs or
trade restrictions policies.
* Environmental requirements affecting the industry and the entity’s business.
A20. SLAuS 250 includes some specific requirements related to the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the entity
and the industry or sector in which the entity operates.
7
Considerations specific to public sector entities
A21. For the audits of public sector entities, law, regulation or other authority may affect the entity’s operations. Such
elements are essential to consider when obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment.
AUDITING
Other External Factors
A22. Examples of other external factors affecting the entity that the auditor may consider include the general economic
conditions, interest rates and availability of financing, and inflation or currency revaluation.
Nature of the Entity (Ref: Para. 11(b))
A23. An understanding of the nature of an entity enables the auditor to understand such matters as:
* Whether the entity has a complex structure, for example with subsidiaries or other components in multiple
locations. Complex structures often introduce issues that may give rise to risks of material misstatement. Such
issues may include whether goodwill, joint ventures, investments, or special-purpose entities are accounted for
appropriately.
6 SLAuS 220, “Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraph 14.
7 SLAuS 250, “Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraph 12.

<!-- page 182 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
182A
* The ownership, and relations between owners and other people or entities. This understanding assists in
determining whether related party transactions have been identified and accounted for appropriately. SLAuS
550
8 establishes requirements and provides guidance on the auditor’s considerations relevant to related parties.
A24. Examples of matters that the auditor may consider when obtaining an understanding of the nature of the entity
include:
* Business operations such as:
o Nature of revenue sources, products or services, and markets, including involvement in electronic commerce
such as Internet sales and marketing activities.
o Conduct of operations (for example, stages and methods of production, or activities exposed to
environmental risks).
o Alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing activities.
o Geographic dispersion and industry segmentation.
o Location of production facilities, warehouses, and offices, and location and quantities of inventories.
o Key customers and important suppliers of goods and services, employment arrangements (including the
existence of union contracts, pension and other post employment benefits, stock option or incentive
bonus arrangements, and government regulation related to employment matters).
o Research and development activities and expenditures.
o Transactions with related parties.
* Investments and investment activities such as:
o Planned or recently executed acquisitions or divestitures.
o Investments and dispositions of securities and loans.
o Capital investment activities.
o Investments in non-consolidated entities, including partnerships, joint ventures and special-purpose entities.
* Financing and financing activities such as:
o Major subsidiaries and associated entities, including consolidated and non-consolidated structures.
o Debt structure and related terms, including off-balance-sheet financing arrangements and leasing
arrangements.
o Beneficial owners (local, foreign, business reputation and experience) and related parties.
o Use of derivative financial instruments.
8 SLAuS 550, “Related Parties.”

<!-- page 183 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
183A
* Financial reporting such as:
o Accounting principles and industry specific practices, including industry-specific significant categories
(for example, loans and investments for banks, or research and development for pharmaceuticals).
o Revenue recognition practices.
o Accounting for fair values.
o Foreign currency assets, liabilities and transactions.
o Accounting for unusual or complex transactions including those in controversial or emerging areas (for
example, accounting for stock-based compensation).
A25. Significant changes in the entity from prior periods may give rise to, or change, risks of material misstatement.
Nature of Special-Purpose Entities
A26. A special-purpose entity (sometimes referred to as a special-purpose vehicle) is an entity that is generally established
for a narrow and well-defined purpose, such as to effect a lease or a securitization of financial assets, or to carry out
research and development activities. It may take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership or unincorporated entity.
The entity on behalf of which the special-purpose entity has been created may often transfer assets to the latter (for
example, as part of a derecognition transaction involving financial assets), obtain the right to use the latter’s assets,
or perform services for the latter, while other parties may provide the funding to the latter. As SLAuS 550 indicates, in
some circumstances, a special-purpose entity may be a related party of the entity.
9
A27. Financial reporting frameworks often specify detailed conditions that are deemed to amount to control, or circumstances
under which the special-purpose entity should be considered for consolidation. The interpretation of the requirements
of such frameworks often demands a detailed knowledge of the relevant agreements involving the special-purpose
entity.
The Entity’ s Selection and Application of Accounting Policies (Ref: Para. 11(c))
A28. An understanding of the entity’s selection and application of accounting policies may encompass such matters as:
* The methods the entity uses to account for significant and unusual transactions.
* The effect of significant accounting policies in controversial or emerging areas for which there is a lack of
authoritative guidance or consensus.
* Changes in the entity’s accounting policies.
* Financial reporting standards and laws and regulations that are new to the entity and when and how the entity
will adopt such requirements.
Objectives and Strategies and Related Business Risks (Ref. Para. 11(d))
A29. The entity conducts its business in the context of industry, regulatory and other internal and external factors. To
respond to these factors, the entity’s management or those charged with governance define objectives, which are the
overall plans for the entity. Strategies are the approaches by which management intends to achieve its objectives. The
entity’s objectives and strategies may change over time.
9 SLAuS 550, paragraph A7.

<!-- page 184 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
184A
A30. Business risk is broader than the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements, though it includes the latter.
Business risk may arise from change or complexity. A failure to recognize the need for change may also give rise to
business risk. Business risk may arise, for example, from:
* The development of new products or services that may fail;
* A market which, even if successfully developed, is inadequate to support a product or service; or
* Flaws in a product or service that may result in liabilities and reputational risk.
A31. An understanding of the business risks facing the entity increases the likelihood of identifying risks of material
misstatement, since most business risks will eventually have financial consequences and, therefore, an effect on the
financial statements. However, the auditor does not have a responsibility to identify or assess all business risks
because not all business risks give rise to risks of material misstatement.
A32. Examples of matters that the auditor may consider when obtaining an understanding of the entity’s objectives,
strategies and related business risks that may result in a risk of material misstatement of the financial statements
include:
* Industry developments (a potential related business risk might be, for example, that the entity does not have the
personnel or expertise to deal with the changes in the industry).
* New products and services (a potential related business risk might be, for example, that there is increased
product liability).
* Expansion of the business (a potential related business risk might be, for example, that the demand has not been
accurately estimated).
* New accounting requirements (a potential related business risk might be, for example, incomplete or improper
implementation, or increased costs).
* Regulatory requirements (a potential related business risk might be, for example, that there is increased legal
exposure).
* Current and prospective financing requirements (a potential related business risk might be, for example, the loss
of financing due to the entity’s inability to meet requirements).
* Use of IT (a potential related business risk might be, for example, that systems and processes are incompatible).
* The effects of implementing a strategy, particularly any effects that will lead to new accounting requirements (a
potential related business risk might be, for example, incomplete or improper implementation).
A33. A business risk may have an immediate consequence for the risk of material misstatement for classes of transactions,
account balances, and disclosures at the assertion level or the financial statement level. For example, the business
risk arising from a contracting customer base may increase the risk of material misstatement associated with the
valuation of receivables. However, the same risk, particularly in combination with a contracting economy, may also
have a longer-term consequence, which the auditor considers when assessing the appropriateness of the going
concern assumption. Whether a business risk may result in a risk of material misstatement is, therefore, considered in
light of the entity’s circumstances. Examples of conditions and events that may indicate risks of material misstatement
are indicated in Appendix 2.
A34. Usually, management identifies business risks and develops approaches to address them. Such a risk assessment
process is part of internal control and is discussed in paragraph 15 and paragraphs A79-A80.

<!-- page 185 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
185A
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A35. For the audits of public sector entities, “management objectives” may be influenced by concerns regarding public
accountability and may include objectives which have their source in law, regulation or other authority.
Measurement and Review of the Entity’ s Financial Performance (Ref: Para.11(e))
A36. Management and others will measure and review those things they regard as important. Performance measures,
whether external or internal, create pressures on the entity. These pressures, in turn, may motivate management to
take action to improve the business performance or to misstate the financial statements. Accordingly, an understanding
of the entity’s performance measures assists the auditor in considering whether pressures to achieve performance
targets may result in management actions that increase the risks of material misstatement, including those due to
fraud. See SLAuS 240 for requirements and guidance in relation to the risks of fraud.
A37. The measurement and review of financial performance is not the same as the monitoring of controls (discussed as a
component of internal control in paragraphs A98-A104), though their purposes may overlap:
* The measurement and review of performance is directed at whether business performance is meeting the
objectives set by management (or third parties).
* Monitoring of controls is specifically concerned with the effective operation of internal control.
In some cases, however, performance indicators also provide information that enables management to identify
deficiencies in internal control.
A38. Examples of internally-generated information used by management for measuring and reviewing financial performance,
and which the auditor may consider, include:
* Key performance indicators (financial and non-financial) and key ratios, trends and operating statistics.
* Period-on-period financial performance analyses.
* Budgets, forecasts, variance analyses, segment information and divisional, departmental or other level
performance reports.
* Employee performance measures and incentive compensation policies.
* Comparisons of an entity’s performance with that of competitors.
A39. External parties may also measure and review the entity’s financial performance. For example, external information
such as analysts’ reports and credit rating agency reports may represent useful information for the auditor. Such
reports can often be obtained from the entity being audited.
A40. Internal measures may highlight unexpected results or trends requiring management to determine their cause and take
corrective action (including, in some cases, the detection and correction of misstatements on a timely basis). Performance
measures may also indicate to the auditor that risks of misstatement of related financial statement information do
exist. For example, performance measures may indicate that the entity has unusually rapid growth or profitability
when compared to that of other entities in the same industry. Such information, particularly if combined with other
factors such as performance-based bonus or incentive remuneration, may indicate the potential risk of management
bias in the preparation of the financial statements.

<!-- page 186 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
186A
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A41. Smaller entities often do not have processes to measure and review financial performance. Inquiry of management
may reveal that it relies on certain key indicators for evaluating financial performance and taking appropriate action.
If such inquiry indicates an absence of performance measurement or review, there may be an increased risk of
misstatements not being detected and corrected.
The Entity’s Internal Control (Ref: Para. 12)
A42. An understanding of internal control assists the auditor in identifying types of potential misstatements and factors
that affect the risks of material misstatement, and in designing the nature, timing, and extent of further audit procedures.
A43. The following application material on internal control is presented in four sections, as follows:
* General Nature and Characteristics of Internal Control.
* Controls Relevant to the Audit.
*  Nature and Extent of the Understanding of Relevant Controls.
* Components of Internal Control.
UDITING
General Nature and Characteristics of Internal Control
Purpose of Internal Control
A44. Internal control is designed, implemented and maintained to address identified business risks that threaten the
achievement of any of the entity’s objectives that concern:
* The reliability of the entity’s financial reporting;
* The effectiveness and efficiency of its operations; and
* Its compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The way in which internal control is designed, implemented and maintained varies with an entity’s size and complexity.
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A45. Smaller entities may use less structured means and simpler processes and procedures to achieve their objectives.
Limitations of Internal Control
A46. Internal control, no matter how effective, can provide an entity with only reasonable assurance about achieving the
entity’s financial reporting objectives. The likelihood of their achievement is affected by the inherent limitations of
internal control. These include the realities that human judgment in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns
in internal control can occur because of human error. For example, there may be an error in the design of, or in the
change to, a control. Equally, the operation of a control may not be effective, such as where information produced for
the purposes of internal control (for example, an exception report) is not effectively used because the individual
responsible for reviewing the information does not understand its purpose or fails to take appropriate action.
A47. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the collusion of two or more people or inappropriate management
override of internal control. For example, management may enter into side agreements with customers that alter the
terms and conditions of the entity’s standard sales contracts, which may result in improper revenue recognition.
Also, edit checks in a software program that are designed to identify and report transactions that exceed specified
credit limits may be overridden or disabled.

<!-- page 187 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
187A
A48. Further, in designing and implementing controls, management may make judgments on the nature and extent of the
controls it chooses to implement, and the nature and extent of the risks it chooses to assume.
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A49. Smaller entities often have fewer employees which may limit the extent to which segregation of duties is practicable.
However, in a small owner-managed entity, the owner-manager may be able to exercise more effective oversight than
in a larger entity. This oversight may compensate for the generally more limited opportunities for segregation of
duties.
A50. On the other hand, the owner-manager may be more able to override controls because the system of internal control
is less structured. This is taken into account by the auditor when identifying the risks of material misstatement due to
fraud.
Division of Internal Control into Components
A51. The division of internal control into the following five components, for purposes of the SLAuSs, provides a useful
framework for auditors to consider how different aspects of an entity’s internal control may affect the audit:
(a) The control environment;
(b) The entity’s risk assessment process;
(c) The information system, including the related business processes, relevant to financial reporting, and
communication;
(d) Control activities; and
(e) Monitoring of controls.
The division does not necessarily reflect how an entity designs, implements and maintains internal control, or how it
may classify any particular component. Auditors may use different terminology or frameworks to describe the various
aspects of internal control, and their effect on the audit than those used in this SLAuS, provided all the components
described in this SLAuS are addressed.
A52. Application material relating to the five components of internal control as they relate to a financial statement audit is
set out in paragraphs A69-A104 below. Appendix 1 provides further explanation of these components of internal
control.
Characteristics of Manual and Automated Elements of Internal Control Relevant to the Auditor’s Risk Assessment
A53. An entity’s system of internal control contains manual elements and often contains automated elements. The
characteristics of manual or automated elements are relevant to the auditor’s risk assessment and further audit
procedures based thereon.
AUDITING
A54. The use of manual or automated elements in internal control also affects the manner in which transactions are
initiated, recorded, processed, and reported:
* Controls in a manual system may include such procedures as approvals and reviews of transactions, and
reconciliations and follow-up of reconciling items. Alternatively, an entity may use automated procedures to
initiate, record, process, and report transactions, in which case records in electronic format replace paper
documents.

<!-- page 188 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
188A
* Controls in IT systems consist of a combination of automated controls (for example, controls embedded in
computer programs) and manual controls. Further, manual controls may be independent of IT, may use information
produced by IT, or may be limited to monitoring the effective functioning of IT and of automated controls, and
to handling exceptions. When IT is used to initiate, record, process or report transactions, or other financial
data for inclusion in financial statements, the systems and programs may include controls related to the
corresponding assertions for material accounts or may be critical to the effective functioning of manual controls
that depend on IT.
An entity’s mix of manual and automated elements in internal control varies with the nature and complexity of the
entity’s use of IT.
A55. Generally, IT benefits an entity’s internal control by enabling an entity to:
* Consistently apply predefined business rules and perform complex calculations in processing large volumes of
transactions or data;
* Enhance the timeliness, availability, and accuracy of information;
* Facilitate the additional analysis of information;
* Enhance the ability to monitor the performance of the entity’s activities and its policies and procedures;
* Reduce the risk that controls will be circumvented; and
* Enhance the ability to achieve effective segregation of duties by implementing security controls in applications,
databases, and operating systems.
A56. IT also poses specific risks to an entity’s internal control, including, for example:
* Reliance on systems or programs that are inaccurately processing data, processing inaccurate data, or both.
* Unauthorized access to data that may result in destruction of data or improper changes to data, including the
recording of unauthorized or non-existent transactions, or inaccurate recording of transactions. Particular risks
may arise where multiple users access a common database.
* The possibility of IT personnel gaining access privileges beyond those necessary to perform their assigned
duties thereby breaking down segregation of duties.
* Unauthorized changes to data in master files.
* Unauthorized changes to systems or programs.
* Failure to make necessary changes to systems or programs.
* Inappropriate manual intervention.
* Potential loss of data or inability to access data as required.
A57. Manual elements in internal control may be more suitable where judgment and discretion are required such as for the
following circumstances:
* Large, unusual or non-recurring transactions.
* Circumstances where errors are difficult to define, anticipate or predict.

<!-- page 189 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
189A
* In changing circumstances that require a control response outside the scope of an existing automated control.
* In monitoring the effectiveness of automated controls.
A58. Manual elements in internal control may be less reliable than automated elements because they can be more easily
bypassed, ignored, or overridden and they are also more prone to simple errors and mistakes. Consistency of
application of a manual control element cannot therefore be assumed. Manual control elements may be less suitable
for the following circumstances:
* High volume or recurring transactions, or in situations where errors that can be anticipated or predicted can be
prevented, or detected and corrected, by control parameters that are automated.
* Control activities where the specific ways to perform the control can be adequately designed and automated.
A59. The extent and nature of the risks to internal control vary depending on the nature and characteristics of the entity’s
information system. The entity responds to the risks arising from the use of IT or from use of manual elements in
internal control by establishing effective controls in light of the characteristics of the entity’s information system.
Controls Relevant to the Audit
A60. There is a direct relationship between an entity’s objectives and the controls it implements to provide reasonable
assurance about their achievement. The entity’s objectives, and therefore controls, relate to financial reporting,
operations and compliance; however, not all of these objectives and controls are relevant to the auditor’s risk
assessment.
A61. Factors relevant to the auditor’s judgment about whether a control, individually or in combination with others, is
relevant to the audit may include such matters as the following:
* Materiality.
* The significance of the related risk.
* The size of the entity.
* The nature of the entity’s business, including its organization and ownership characteristics.
* The diversity and complexity of the entity’s operations.
* Applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
* The circumstances and the applicable component of internal control.
* The nature and complexity of the systems that are part of the entity’s internal control, including the use of
service organizations.
* Whether, and how, a specific control, individually or in combination with others, prevents, or detects and
corrects, material misstatement.
A62. Controls over the completeness and accuracy of information produced by the entity may be relevant to the audit if the
auditor intends to make use of the information in designing and performing further procedures. Controls relating to
operations and compliance objectives may also be relevant to an audit if they relate to data the auditor evaluates or
uses in applying audit procedures.
A63. Internal control over safeguarding of assets against unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition may include controls
relating to both financial reporting and operations objectives. The auditor’s consideration of such controls is generally
limited to those relevant to the reliability of financial reporting.

<!-- page 190 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
190A
A64. An entity generally has controls relating to objectives that are not relevant to an audit and therefore need not be
considered. For example, an entity may rely on a sophisticated system of automated controls to provide efficient and
effective operations (such as an airline’s system of automated controls to maintain flight schedules), but these
controls ordinarily would not be relevant to the audit. Further, although internal control applies to the entire entity or
to any of its operating units or business processes, an understanding of internal control relating to each of the
entity’s operating units and business processes may not be relevant to the audit.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A65. Public sector auditors often have additional responsibilities with respect to internal control, for example to report on
compliance with an established code of practice. Public sector auditors can also have responsibilities to report on
compliance with law, regulation or other authority. As a result, their review of internal control may be broader and
more detailed.
Nature and Extent of the Understanding of Relevant Controls (Ref: Para. 13)
A66. Evaluating the design of a control involves considering whether the control, individually or in combination with other
controls, is capable of effectively preventing, or detecting and correcting, material misstatements. Implementation of
a control means that the control exists and that the entity is using it. There is little point in assessing the implementation
of a control that is not effective, and so the design of a control is considered first. An improperly designed control
may represent a significant deficiency in internal control.
A67. Risk assessment procedures to obtain audit evidence about the design and implementation of relevant controls may
include:
* Inquiring of entity personnel.
* Observing the application of specific controls.
* Inspecting documents and reports.
* Tracing transactions through the information system relevant to financial reporting.
Inquiry alone, however, is not sufficient for such purposes.
A68. Obtaining an understanding of an entity’s controls is not sufficient to test their operating effectiveness, unless there
is some automation that provides for the consistent operation of the controls. For example, obtaining audit evidence
about the implementation of a manual control at a point in time does not provide audit evidence about the operating
effectiveness of the control at other times during the period under audit. However, because of the inherent consistency
of IT processing (see paragraph A55), performing audit procedures to determine whether an automated control has
been implemented may serve as a test of that control’s operating effectiveness, depending on the auditor’s assessment
and testing of controls such as those over program changes. Tests of the operating effectiveness of controls are
further described in SLAuS 330.
10
AUDITING
Components of Internal Control—Control Environment (Ref: Para. 14)
A69. The control environment includes the governance and management functions and the attitudes, awareness, and
actions of those charged with governance and management concerning the entity’s internal control and its importance
in the entity. The control environment sets the tone of an organization, influencing the control consciousness of its
people.
10 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”

<!-- page 191 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
191A
A70. Elements of the control environment that may be relevant when obtaining an understanding of the control environment
include the following:
(a) Communication and enforcement of integrity and ethical values – These are essential elements that influence
the effectiveness of the design, administration and monitoring of controls.
(b) Commitment to competence – Matters such as management’s consideration of the competence levels for
particular jobs and how those levels translate into requisite skills and knowledge.
(c) Participation by those charged with governance – Attributes of those charged with governance such as:
* Their independence from management.
* Their experience and stature.
* The extent of their involvement and the information they receive, and the scrutiny of activities.
* The appropriateness of their actions, including the degree to which difficult questions are raised and
pursued with management, and their interaction with internal and external auditors.
(d) Management’ s philosophy and operating style – Characteristics such as management’s:
* Approach to taking and managing business risks.
* Attitudes and actions toward financial reporting.
* Attitudes toward information processing and accounting functions and personnel.
(e) Organizational structure – The framework within which an entity’s activities for achieving its objectives are
planned, executed, controlled, and reviewed.
(f) Assignment of authority and responsibility – Matters such as how authority and responsibility for operating
activities are assigned and how reporting relationships and authorization hierarchies are established.
(g) Human resource policies and practices – Policies and practices that relate to, for example, recruitment, orientation,
training, evaluation, counselling, promotion, compensation, and remedial actions.
Audit Evidence for Elements of the Control Environment
A71. Relevant audit evidence may be obtained through a combination of inquiries and other risk assessment procedures
such as corroborating inquiries through observation or inspection of documents. For example, through inquiries of
management and employees, the auditor may obtain an understanding of how management communicates to employees
its views on business practices and ethical behavior. The auditor may then determine whether relevant controls have
been implemented by considering, for example, whether management has a written code of conduct and whether it
acts in a manner that supports the code.
Effect of the Control Environment on the Assessment of the Risks of Material Misstatement
A72. Some elements of an entity’s control environment have a pervasive effect on assessing the risks of material
misstatement. For example, an entity’s control consciousness is influenced significantly by those charged with
governance, because one of their roles is to counterbalance pressures on management in relation to financial reporting
that may arise from market demands or remuneration schemes. The effectiveness of the design of the control environment
in relation to participation by those charged with governance is therefore influenced by such matters as :
* Their independence from management and their ability to evaluate the actions of management.
* Whether they understand the entity’s business transactions.
* The extent to which they evaluate whether the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the
applicable financial reporting framework.

<!-- page 192 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
192A
A73. An active and independent board of directors may influence the philosophy and operating style of senior management.
However, other elements may be more limited in their effect. For example, although human resource policies and
practices directed toward hiring competent financial, accounting, and IT personnel may reduce the risk of errors in
processing financial information, they may not mitigate a strong bias by top management to overstate earnings.
A74. The existence of a satisfactory control environment can be a positive factor when the auditor assesses the risks of
material misstatement. However, although it may help reduce the risk of fraud, a satisfactory control environment is
not an absolute deterrent to fraud. Conversely, deficiencies in the control environment may undermine the effectiveness
of controls, in particular in relation to fraud. For example, management’s failure to commit sufficient resources to
address IT security risks may adversely affect internal control by allowing improper changes to be made to computer
programs or to data, or unauthorized transactions to be processed. As explained in SLAuS 330, the control environment
also influences the nature, timing, and extent of the auditor’s further procedures.
11
A75. The control environment in itself does not prevent, or detect and correct, a material misstatement. It may, however,
influence the auditor’s evaluation of the effectiveness of other controls (for example, the monitoring of controls and
the operation of specific control activities) and thereby, the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A76. The control environment within small entities is likely to differ from larger entities. For example, those charged with
governance in small entities may not include an independent or outside member, and the role of governance may be
undertaken directly by the owner-manager where there are no other owners. The nature of the control environment
may also influence the significance of other controls, or their absence. For example, the active involvement of an
owner-manager may mitigate certain of the risks arising from a lack of segregation of duties in a small business; it may,
however, increase other risks, for example, the risk of override of controls.
A77. In addition, audit evidence for elements of the control environment in smaller entities may not be available in
documentary form, in particular where communication between management and other personnel may be informal, yet
effective. For example, small entities might not have a written code of conduct but, instead, develop a culture that
emphasizes the importance of integrity and ethical behavior through oral communication and by management example.
A78. Consequently, the attitudes, awareness and actions of management or the owner-manager are of particular importance
to the auditor’s understanding of a smaller entity’s control environment.
Components of Internal Control—The Entity’ s Risk Assessment Process (Ref: Para. 15)
A79. The entity’s risk assessment process forms the basis for how management determines the risks to be managed. If that
process is appropriate to the circumstances, including the nature, size and complexity of the entity, it assists the
auditor in identifying risks of material misstatement. Whether the entity’s risk assessment process is appropriate to
the circumstances is a matter of judgment.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities (Ref: Para. 17)
A80. There is unlikely to be an established risk assessment process in a small entity. In such cases, it is likely that
management will identify risks through direct personal involvement in the business. Irrespective of the circumstances,
however, inquiry about identified risks and how they are addressed by management is still necessary.
11 SLAuS 330, paragraphs A2-A3.

<!-- page 193 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
193A
Components of Internal Control—The Information System, Including the Related Business Processes, Relevant to
Financial Reporting, and Communication
The Information System, Including Related Business Processes, Relevant to Financial Reporting (Ref: Para. 18)
A81. The information system relevant to financial reporting objectives, which includes the accounting system, consists of
the procedures and records designed and established to:
* Initiate, record, process, and report entity transactions (as well as events and conditions) and to maintain
accountability for the related assets, liabilities, and equity;
* Resolve incorrect processing of transactions, for example, automated suspense files and procedures followed
to clear suspense items out on a timely basis;
* Process and account for system overrides or bypasses to controls;
* Transfer information from transaction processing systems to the general ledger;
* Capture information relevant to financial reporting for events and conditions other than transactions, such as
the depreciation and amortization of assets and changes in the recoverability of accounts receivables; and
* Ensure information required to be disclosed by the applicable financial reporting framework is accumulated,
recorded, processed, summarized and appropriately reported in the financial statements.
Journal entries
A82. An entity’s information system typically includes the use of standard journal entries that are required on a recurring
basis to record transactions. Examples might be journal entries to record sales, purchases, and cash disbursements in
the general ledger, or to record accounting estimates that are periodically made by management, such as changes in
the estimate of uncollectible accounts receivable.
A83. An entity’s financial reporting process also includes the use of non-standard journal entries to record non-recurring,
unusual transactions or adjustments. Examples of such entries include consolidating adjustments and entries for a
business combination or disposal or non-recurring estimates such as the impairment of an asset. In manual general
ledger systems, non-standard journal entries may be identified through inspection of ledgers, journals, and supporting
documentation. When automated procedures are used to maintain the general ledger and prepare financial statements,
such entries may exist only in electronic form and may therefore be more easily identified through the use of computer-
assisted audit techniques.
Related business processes
A84. An entity’s business processes are the activities designed to:
* Develop, purchase, produce, sell and distribute an entity’s products and services;
* Ensure compliance with laws and regulations; and
* Record information, including accounting and financial reporting information.
Business processes result in the transactions that are recorded, processed and reported by the information system.
Obtaining an understanding of the entity’s business processes, which include how transactions are originated,
assists the auditor obtain an understanding of the entity’s information system relevant to financial reporting in a
manner that is appropriate to the entity’s circumstances.

<!-- page 194 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
194A
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A85. Information systems and related business processes relevant to financial reporting in small entities are likely to be
less sophisticated than in larger entities, but their role is just as significant. Small entities with active management
involvement may not need extensive descriptions of accounting procedures, sophisticated accounting records, or
written policies. Understanding the entity’s systems and processes may therefore be easier in an audit of smaller
entities, and may be more dependent on inquiry than on review of documentation. The need to obtain an understanding,
however, remains important.
Communication (Ref: Para. 19)
A86. Communication by the entity of the financial reporting roles and responsibilities and of significant matters relating to
financial reporting involves providing an understanding of individual roles and responsibilities pertaining to internal
control over financial reporting. It includes such matters as the extent to which personnel understand how their
activities in the financial reporting information system relate to the work of others and the means of reporting
exceptions to an appropriate higher level within the entity. Communication may take such forms as policy manuals
and financial reporting manuals. Open communication channels help ensure that exceptions are reported and acted
on.
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A87. Communication may be less structured and easier to achieve in a small entity than in a larger entity due to fewer levels
of responsibility and management’s greater visibility and availability.
Components of Internal Control—Control Activities (Ref: Para. 20)
A88. Control activities are the policies and procedures that help ensure that management directives are carried out. Control
activities, whether within IT or manual systems, have various objectives and are applied at various organizational and
functional levels. Examples of specific control activities include those relating to the following:
* Authorization.
* Performance reviews.
* Information processing.
* Physical controls.
* Segregation of duties.
A89. Control activities that are relevant to the audit are:
* Those that are required to be treated as such, being control activities that relate to significant risks and those
that relate to risks for which substantive procedures alone do not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence,
as required by paragraphs 29 and 30, respectively; or
* Those that are considered to be relevant in the judgment of the auditor.
A90. The auditor’s judgment about whether a control activity is relevant to the audit is influenced by the risk that the
auditor has identified that may give rise to a material misstatement and whether the auditor thinks it is likely to be
appropriate to test the operating effectiveness of the control in determining the extent of substantive testing.
A91. The auditor’s emphasis may be on identifying and obtaining an understanding of control activities that address the
areas where the auditor considers that risks of material misstatement are likely to be higher. When multiple control
activities each achieve the same objective, it is unnecessary to obtain an understanding of each of the control
activities related to such objective.

<!-- page 195 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
195A
A92. The auditor’s knowledge about the presence or absence of control activities obtained from the understanding of the
other components of internal control assists the auditor in determining whether it is necessary to devote additional
attention to obtaining an understanding of control activities.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A93. The concepts underlying control activities in small entities are likely to be similar to those in larger entities, but the
formality with which they operate may vary. Further, small entities may find that certain types of control activities are
not relevant because of controls applied by management. For example, management’s sole authority for granting
credit to customers and approving significant purchases can provide strong control over important account balances
and transactions, lessening or removing the need for more detailed control activities.
A94. Control activities relevant to the audit of a smaller entity are likely to relate to the main transaction cycles such as
revenues, purchases and employment expenses.
Risks Arising from IT (Ref: Para. 21)
A95. The use of IT affects the way that control activities are implemented. From the auditor’s perspective, controls over IT
systems are effective when they maintain the integrity of information and the security of the data such systems
process, and include effective general IT-controls and application controls.
A96. General IT-controls are policies and procedures that relate to many applications and support the effective functioning
of application controls. They apply to mainframe, miniframe, and end-user environments. General IT-controls that
maintain the integrity of information and security of data commonly include controls over the following:
* Data center and network operations.
* System software acquisition, change and maintenance.
* Program change.
* Access security.
* Application system acquisition, development, and maintenance.
They are generally implemented to deal with the risks referred to in paragraph A56 above.
A97. Application controls are manual or automated procedures that typically operate at a business process level and apply
to the processing of transactions by individual applications. Application controls can be preventive or detective in
nature and are designed to ensure the integrity of the accounting records. Accordingly, application controls relate to
procedures used to initiate, record, process and report transactions or other financial data. These controls help
ensure that transactions occurred, are authorized, and are completely and accurately recorded and processed. Examples
include edit checks of input data, and numerical sequence checks with manual follow-up of exception reports or
correction at the point of data entry.
Components of Internal Control—Monitoring of Controls (Ref: Para. 22)
A98. Monitoring of controls is a process to assess the effectiveness of internal control performance over time. It involves
assessing the effectiveness of controls on a timely basis and taking necessary remedial actions. Management
accomplishes monitoring of controls through ongoing activities, separate evaluations, or a combination of the two.
Ongoing monitoring activities are often built into the normal recurring activities of an entity and include regular
management and supervisory activities.

<!-- page 196 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
196A
A99. Management’s monitoring activities may include using information from communications from external parties such
as customer complaints and regulator comments that may indicate problems or highlight areas in need of improvement.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A100. Management’s monitoring of control is often accomplished by management’s or the owner-manager’s close
involvement in operations. This involvement often will identify significant variances from expectations and
inaccuracies in financial data leading to remedial action to the control.
Internal Audit Functions (Ref: Para. 23)
A101. The entity’s internal audit function is likely to be relevant to the audit if the nature of the internal audit function’s
responsibilities and activities are related to the entity’s financial reporting, and the auditor expects to use the work
of the internal auditors to modify the nature or timing, or reduce the extent, of audit procedures to be performed. If
the auditor determines that the internal audit function is likely to be relevant to the audit, SLAuS 610 applies.
A102. The objectives of an internal audit function, and therefore the nature of its responsibilities and its status within the
organization, vary widely and depend on the size and structure of the entity and the requirements of management
and, where applicable, those charged with governance. The responsibilities of an internal audit function may
include, for example, monitoring of internal control, risk management, and review of compliance with laws and
regulations. On the other hand, the responsibilities of the internal audit function may be limited to the review of the
economy, efficiency and effectiveness of operations, for example, and accordingly, may not relate to the entity’s
financial reporting.
A103. If the nature of the internal audit function’s responsibilities are related to the entity’s financial reporting, the external
auditor’s consideration of the activities performed, or to be performed by, the internal audit function may include
review of the internal audit function’s audit plan for the period, if any, and discussion of that plan with the internal
auditors.
Sources of Information (Ref: Para. 24)
A104. Much of the information used in monitoring may be produced by the entity’s information system. If management
assumes that data used for monitoring are accurate without having a basis for that assumption, errors that may exist
in the information could potentially lead management to incorrect conclusions from its monitoring activities.
Accordingly, an understanding of:
* the sources of the information related to the entity’s monitoring activities; and
* the basis upon which management considers the information to be sufficiently reliable for the purpose
is required as part of the auditor’s understanding of the entity’s monitoring activities as a component of internal
control.
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement
Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement at the Financial Statement Level (Ref: Para. 25(a))
A105. Risks of material misstatement at the financial statement level refer to risks that relate pervasively to the financial
statements as a whole and potentially affect many assertions. Risks of this nature are not necessarily risks identifiable
with specific assertions at the class of transactions, account balance, or disclosure level. Rather, they represent
circumstances that may increase the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level, for example, through
management override of internal control. Financial statement level risks may be especially relevant to the auditor’s
consideration of the risks of material misstatement arising from fraud.

<!-- page 197 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
197A
A106. Risks at the financial statement level may derive in particular from a deficient control environment (although these
risks may also relate to other factors, such as declining economic conditions). For example, deficiencies such as
management’s lack of competence may have a more pervasive effect on the financial statements and may require an
overall response by the auditor.
A107. The auditor’s understanding of internal control may raise doubts about the auditability of an entity’s financial
statements. For example:
* Concerns about the integrity of the entity’s management may be so serious as to cause the auditor to conclude
that the risk of management misrepresentation in the financial statements is such that an audit cannot be
conducted.
* Concerns about the condition and reliability of an entity’s records may cause the auditor to conclude that it is
unlikely that sufficient appropriate audit evidence will be available to support an unmodified opinion on the
financial statements.
A108. SLAuS 705
12 establishes requirements and provides guidance in determining whether there is a need for the auditor
to express a qualified opinion or disclaim an opinion or, as may be required in some cases, to withdraw from the
engagement where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or regulation.
Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement at the Assertion Level (Ref: Para.  25(b))
A109. Risks of material misstatement at the assertion level for classes of transactions, account balances, and disclosures
need to be considered because such consideration directly assists in determining the nature, timing, and extent of
further audit procedures at the assertion level necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. In identifying
and assessing risks of material misstatement at the assertion level, the auditor may conclude that the identified risks
relate more pervasively to the financial statements as a whole and potentially affect many assertions.
The Use of Assertions
A110. In representing that the financial statements are in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework,
management implicitly or explicitly makes assertions regarding the recognition, measurement, presentation and
disclosure of the various elements of financial statements and related disclosures.
A111. Assertions used by the auditor to consider the different types of potential misstatements that may occur fall into the
following three categories and may take the following forms:
(a) Assertions about classes of transactions and events for the period under audit:
(i) Occurrence—transactions and events that have been recorded have occurred and pertain to the entity.
(ii) Completeness—all transactions and events that should have been recorded have been recorded.
(iii) Accuracy—amounts and other data relating to recorded transactions and events have been recorded
appropriately.
(iv) Cutoff—transactions and events have been recorded in the correct accounting period.
(v) Classification—transactions and events have been recorded in the proper accounts.
12 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”

<!-- page 198 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
198A
(b) Assertions about account balances at the period end:
(i) Existence—assets, liabilities, and equity interests exist.
(ii) Rights and obligations—the entity holds or controls the rights to assets, and liabilities are the obligations
of the entity.
(iii) Completeness—all assets, liabilities and equity interests that should have been recorded have been
recorded.
(iv) Valuation and allocation—assets, liabilities, and equity interests are included in the financial statements at
appropriate amounts and any resulting valuation or allocation adjustments are appropriately recorded.
(c) Assertions about presentation and disclosure:
(i) Occurrence and rights and obligations—disclosed events, transactions, and other matters have occurred
and pertain to the entity.
(ii) Completeness—all disclosures that should have been included in the financial statements have been
included.
(iii) Classification and understandability—financial information is appropriately presented and described, and
disclosures are clearly expressed.
(iv) Accuracy and valuation—financial and other information are disclosed fairly and at appropriate amounts.
A112. The auditor may use the assertions as described above or may express them differently provided all aspects
described above have been covered. For example, the auditor may choose to combine the assertions about
transactions and events with the assertions about account balances.
Considerations specific to public sector entities
A113. When making assertions about the financial statements of public sector entities, in addition to those assertions set
out in paragraph A111, management may often assert that transactions and events have been carried out in accordance
with law, regulation or other authority. Such assertions may fall within the scope of the financial statement audit.
Process of Identifying Risks of Material Misstatement (Ref: Para. 26(a))
A114.  Information gathered by performing risk assessment procedures, including the audit evidence obtained in evaluating
the design of controls and determining whether they have been implemented, is used as audit evidence to support
the risk assessment. The risk assessment determines the nature, timing, and extent of further audit procedures to be
performed.
A115. Appendix 2 provides examples of conditions and events that may indicate the existence of risks of material
misstatement.
Relating Controls to Assertions (Ref: Para. 26(c))
A116. In making risk assessments, the auditor may identify the controls that are likely to prevent, or detect and correct,
material misstatement in specific assertions. Generally, it is useful to obtain an understanding of controls and relate
them to assertions in the context of processes and systems in which they exist because individual control activities
often do not in themselves address a risk. Often, only multiple control activities, together with other components of
internal control, will be sufficient to address a risk.

<!-- page 199 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
199A
A117. Conversely, some control activities may have a specific effect on an individual assertion embodied in a particular
class of transactions or account balance. For example, the control activities that an entity established to ensure that
its personnel are properly counting and recording the annual physical inventory relate directly to the existence and
completeness assertions for the inventory account balance.
A118. Controls can be either directly or indirectly related to an assertion. The more indirect the relationship, the less
effective that control may be in preventing, or detecting and correcting, misstatements in that assertion. For
example, a sales manager’s review of a summary of sales activity for specific stores by region ordinarily is only
indirectly related to the completeness assertion for sales revenue. Accordingly, it may be less effective in reducing
risk for that assertion than controls more directly related to that assertion, such as matching shipping documents
with billing documents.
Significant Risks
Identifying Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 28)
A119. Significant risks often relate to significant non-routine transactions or judgmental matters. Non-routine transactions
are transactions that are unusual, due to either size or nature, and that therefore occur infrequently. Judgmental
matters may include the development of accounting estimates for which there is significant measurement uncertainty.
Routine, non-complex transactions that are subject to systematic processing are less likely to give rise to significant
risks.
A120. Risks of material misstatement may be greater for significant non-routine transactions arising from matters such as
the following:
* Greater management intervention to specify the accounting treatment.
* Greater manual intervention for data collection and processing.
* Complex calculations or accounting principles.
* The nature of non-routine transactions, which may make it difficult for the entity to implement effective controls
over the risks.
A121. Risks of material misstatement may be greater for significant judgmental matters that require the development of
accounting estimates, arising from matters such as the following:
* Accounting principles for accounting estimates or revenue recognition may be subject to differing interpretation.
* Required judgment may be subjective or complex, or require assumptions about the effects of future events, for
example, judgment about fair value.
A122. SLAuS 330 describes the consequences for further audit procedures of identifying a risk as significant.
13
Significant risks relating to the risks of material misstatement due to fraud
A123. SLAuS 240 provides further requirements and guidance in relation to the identification and assessment of the risks
of material misstatement due to fraud.14
13 SLAuS 330, paragraphs 15 and 21.
14 SLAuS 240, paragraphs 25-27.

<!-- page 200 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
200A
Understanding Controls Related to Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 29)
A124. Although risks relating to significant non-routine or judgmental matters are often less likely to be subject to routine
controls, management may have other responses intended to deal with such risks. Accordingly, the auditor’s
understanding of whether the entity has designed and implemented controls for significant risks arising from non-
routine or judgmental matters includes whether and how management responds to the risks. Such responses might
include:
* Control activities such as a review of assumptions by senior management or experts.
* Documented processes for estimations.
* Approval by those charged with governance.
A125. For example, where there are one-off events such as the receipt of notice of a significant lawsuit, consideration of
the entity’s response may include such matters as whether it has been referred to appropriate experts (such as
internal or external legal counsel), whether an assessment has been made of the potential effect, and how it is
proposed that the circumstances are to be disclosed in the financial statements.
A126. In some cases, management may not have appropriately responded to significant risks of material misstatement by
implementing controls over these significant risks. Failure by management to implement such controls is an indicator
of a significant deficiency in internal control.
15
Risks for Which Substantive Procedures Alone Do Not Provide Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 30)
A127. Risks of material misstatement may relate directly to the recording of routine classes of transactions or account
balances, and the preparation of reliable financial statements. Such risks may include risks of inaccurate or incomplete
processing for routine and significant classes of transactions such as an entity’s revenue, purchases, and cash
receipts or cash payments.
A128. Where such routine business transactions are subject to highly automated processing with little or no manual
intervention, it may not be possible to perform only substantive procedures in relation to the risk. For example, the
auditor may consider this to be the case in circumstances where a significant amount of an entity’s information is
initiated, recorded, processed, or reported only in electronic form such as in an integrated system. In such cases:
* Audit evidence may be available only in electronic form, and its sufficiency and appropriateness usually
depend on the effectiveness of controls over its accuracy and completeness.
* The potential for improper initiation or alteration of information to occur and not be detected may be greater if
appropriate controls are not operating effectively.
A129. The consequences for further audit procedures of identifying such risks are described in SLAuS 330.
16
Revision of Risk Assessment (Ref: Para. 31)
A130. During the audit, information may come to the auditor’s attention that differs significantly from the information on
which the risk assessment was based. For example, the risk assessment may be based on an expectation that certain
controls are operating effectively. In performing tests of those controls, the auditor may obtain audit evidence that
they were not operating effectively at relevant times during the audit. Similarly, in performing substantive procedures
the auditor may detect misstatements in amounts or frequency greater than is consistent with the auditor’s risk
assessments. In such circumstances, the risk assessment may not appropriately reflect the true circumstances of the
entity and the further planned audit procedures may not be effective in detecting material misstatements. See
SLAuS 330 for further guidance.
15 SLAuS 265, “Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and Management,” paragraph A7.
16 SLAuS 330, paragraph 8.

<!-- page 201 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
201A
Documentation (Ref: Para. 32)
A131. The manner in which the requirements of paragraph 32 are documented is for the auditor to determine using
professional judgment. For example, in audits of small entities the documentation may be incorporated in the
auditor’s documentation of the overall strategy and audit plan.
17 Similarly, for example, the results of the risk
assessment may be documented separately, or may be documented as part of the auditor’s documentation of further
procedures.18 The form and extent of the documentation is influenced by the nature, size and complexity of the
entity and its internal control, availability of information from the entity and the audit methodology and technology
used in the course of the audit.
A132. For entities that have uncomplicated businesses and processes relevant to financial reporting, the documentation
may be simple in form and relatively brief. It is not necessary to document the entirety of the auditor’s understanding
of the entity and matters related to it. Key elements of understanding documented by the auditor include those on
which the auditor based the assessment of the risks of material misstatement.
A133. The extent of documentation may also reflect the experience and capabilities of the members of the audit engagement
team. Provided the requirements of SLAuS 230 are always met, an audit undertaken by an engagement team
comprising less experienced individuals may require more detailed documentation to assist them to obtain an
appropriate understanding of the entity than one that includes experienced individuals.
A134. For recurring audits, certain documentation may be carried forward, updated as necessary to reflect changes in the
entity’s business or processes.
Appendix 1
(Ref: Paras. 4(c), 14-24, A69-A104)
Internal Control Components
1. This appendix further explains the components of internal control, as set out in paragraphs 4(c), 14-24 and A69-A104,
as they relate to a financial statement audit.
Control Environment
2. The control environment encompasses the following elements:
(a) Communication and enforcement of integrity and ethical values . The effectiveness of controls cannot rise
above the integrity and ethical values of the people who create, administer, and monitor them. Integrity and
ethical behavior are the product of the entity’s ethical and behavioral standards, how they are communicated,
and how they are reinforced in practice. The enforcement of integrity and ethical values includes, for example,
management actions to eliminate or mitigate incentives or temptations that might prompt personnel to engage
in dishonest, illegal, or unethical acts. The communication of entity policies on integrity and ethical values may
include the communication of behavioral standards to personnel through policy statements and codes of
conduct and by example.
(b) Commitment to competence . Competence is the knowledge and skills necessary to accomplish tasks that
define the individual’s job.
17 SLAuS 300, “Planning an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraphs 7 and 9.
18 SLAuS 330, paragraph 28.

<!-- page 202 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
202A
(c) Participation by those charged with governance. An entity’s control consciousness is influenced significantly
by those charged with governance. The importance of the responsibilities of those charged with governance is
recognized in codes of practice and other laws and regulations or guidance produced for the benefit of those
charged with governance. Other responsibilities of those charged with governance include oversight of the
design and effective operation of whistle blower procedures and the process for reviewing the effectiveness of
the entity’s internal control.
(d) Management’ s philosophy and operating style. Management’s philosophy and operating style encompass a
broad range of characteristics. For example, management’s attitudes and actions toward financial reporting may
manifest themselves through conservative or aggressive selection from available alternative accounting
principles, or conscientiousness and conservatism with which accounting estimates are developed.
AUDITING
(e) Organizational structure . Establishing a relevant organizational structure includes considering key areas of
authority and responsibility and appropriate lines of reporting. The appropriateness of an entity’s organizational
structure depends, in part, on its size and the nature of its activities.
(f) Assignment of authority and responsibility . The assignment of authority and responsibility may include
policies relating to appropriate business practices, knowledge and experience of key personnel, and resources
provided for carrying out duties. In addition, it may include policies and communications directed at ensuring
that all personnel understand the entity’s objectives, know how their individual actions interrelate and contribute
to those objectives, and recognize how and for what they will be held accountable.
(g) Human resource policies and practices . Human resource policies and practices often demonstrate important
matters in relation to the control consciousness of an entity. For example, standards for recruiting the most
qualified individuals – with emphasis on educational background, prior work experience, past accomplishments,
and evidence of integrity and ethical behavior – demonstrate an entity’s commitment to competent and
trustworthy people. Training policies that communicate prospective roles and responsibilities and include
practices such as training schools and seminars illustrate expected levels of performance and behavior.
Promotions driven by periodic performance appraisals demonstrate the entity’s commitment to the advancement
of qualified personnel to higher levels of responsibility.
Entity’s Risk Assessment Process
3. For financial reporting purposes, the entity’s risk assessment process includes how management identifies business
risks relevant to the preparation of financial statements in accordance with the entity’s applicable financial reporting
framework, estimates their significance, assesses the likelihood of their occurrence, and decides upon actions to
respond to and manage them and the results thereof. For example, the entity’s risk assessment process may address
how the entity considers the possibility of unrecorded transactions or identifies and analyzes significant estimates
recorded in the financial statements.
4. Risks relevant to reliable financial reporting include external and internal events, transactions or circumstances that
may occur and adversely affect an entity’s ability to initiate, record, process, and report financial data consistent with
the assertions of management in the financial statements. Management may initiate plans, programs, or actions to
address specific risks or it may decide to accept a risk because of cost or other considerations. Risks can arise or
change due to circumstances such as the following:
* Changes in operating environment. Changes in the regulatory or operating environment can result in changes
in competitive pressures and significantly different risks.
* New personnel. New personnel may have a different focus on or understanding of internal control.

<!-- page 203 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
203A
* New or revamped information systems . Significant and rapid changes in information systems can change the
risk relating to internal control.
* Rapid growth . Significant and rapid expansion of operations can strain controls and increase the risk of a
breakdown in controls.
* New technology . Incorporating new technologies into production processes or information systems may
change the risk associated with internal control.
* New business models, products, or activities. Entering into business areas or transactions with which an entity
has little experience may introduce new risks associated with internal control.
* Corporate restructurings. Restructurings may be accompanied by staff reductions and changes in supervision
and segregation of duties that may change the risk associated with internal control.
* Expanded foreign operations. The expansion or acquisition of foreign operations carries new and often unique
risks that may affect internal control, for example, additional or changed risks from foreign currency transactions.
* New accounting pronouncements . Adoption of new accounting principles or changing accounting principles
may affect risks in preparing financial statements.
Information System, Including the Related Business Processes, Relevant to Financial Reporting, and Communication
5. An information system consists of infrastructure (physical and hardware components), software, people, procedures,
and data. Many information systems make extensive use of information technology (IT).
6. The information system relevant to financial reporting objectives, which includes the financial reporting system,
encompasses methods and records that:
* Identify and record all valid transactions.
* Describe on a timely basis the transactions in sufficient detail to permit proper classification of transactions for
financial reporting.
* Measure the value of transactions in a manner that permits recording their proper monetary value in the
financial statements.
* Determine the time period in which transactions occurred to permit recording of transactions in the proper
accounting period.
* Present properly the transactions and related disclosures in the financial statements.
7. The quality of system-generated information affects management’s ability to make appropriate decisions in managing
and controlling the entity’s activities and to prepare reliable financial reports.
8. Communication, which involves providing an understanding of individual roles and responsibilities pertaining to
internal control over financial reporting, may take such forms as policy manuals, accounting and financial reporting
manuals, and memoranda. Communication also can be made electronically, orally, and through the actions of
management.

<!-- page 204 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
204A
Control Activities
9. Generally, control activities that may be relevant to an audit may be categorized as policies and procedures that
pertain to the following:
* Performance reviews. These control activities include reviews and analyses of actual performance versus
budgets, forecasts, and prior period performance; relating different sets of data – operating or financial – to one
another, together with analyses of the relationships and investigative and corrective actions; comparing internal
data with external sources of information; and review of functional or activity performance.
* Information processing . The two broad groupings of information systems control activities are application
controls, which apply to the processing of individual applications, and general IT-controls, which are policies
and procedures that relate to many applications and support the effective functioning of application controls
by helping to ensure the continued proper operation of information systems. Examples of application controls
include checking the arithmetical accuracy of records, maintaining and reviewing accounts and trial balances,
automated controls such as edit checks of input data and numerical sequence checks, and manual follow-up of
exception reports. Examples of general IT-controls are program change controls, controls that restrict access to
programs or data, controls over the implementation of new releases of packaged software applications, and
controls over system software that restrict access to or monitor the use of system utilities that could change
financial data or records without leaving an audit trail.
* Physical controls . Controls that encompass:
o The physical security of assets, including adequate safeguards such as secured facilities over access to
assets and records.
o The authorization for access to computer programs and data files.
o The periodic counting and comparison with amounts shown on control records (for example, comparing
the results of cash, security and inventory counts with accounting records).
The extent to which physical controls intended to prevent theft of assets are relevant to the reliability of
financial statement preparation, and therefore the audit, depends on circumstances such as when assets are
highly susceptible to misappropriation.
* Segregation of duties. Assigning different people the responsibilities of authorizing transactions, recording
transactions, and maintaining custody of assets. Segregation of duties is intended to reduce the opportunities
to allow any person to be in a position to both perpetrate and conceal errors or fraud in the normal course of the
person’s duties.
10. Certain control activities may depend on the existence of appropriate higher level policies established by management
or those charged with governance. For example, authorization controls may be delegated under established guidelines,
such as investment criteria set by those charged with governance; alternatively, non-routine transactions such as
major acquisitions or divestments may require specific high level approval, including in some cases that of shareholders.

<!-- page 205 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
205A
Monitoring of Controls
11. An important management responsibility is to establish and maintain internal control on an ongoing basis.
Management’s monitoring of controls includes considering whether they are operating as intended and that they are
modified as appropriate for changes in conditions. Monitoring of controls may include activities such as management’s
review of whether bank reconciliations are being prepared on a timely basis, internal auditors’ evaluation of sales
personnel’s compliance with the entity’s policies on terms of sales contracts, and a legal department’s oversight of
compliance with the entity’s ethical or business practice policies. Monitoring is done also to ensure that controls
continue to operate effectively over time. For example, if the timeliness and accuracy of bank reconciliations are not
monitored, personnel are likely to stop preparing them.
12. Internal auditors or personnel performing similar functions may contribute to the monitoring of an entity’s controls
through separate evaluations. Ordinarily, they regularly provide information about the functioning of internal control,
focusing considerable attention on evaluating the effectiveness of internal control, and communicate information
about strengths and deficiencies in internal control and recommendations for improving internal control.
13. Monitoring activities may include using information from communications from external parties that may indicate
problems or highlight areas in need of improvement. Customers implicitly corroborate billing data by paying their
invoices or complaining about their charges. In addition, regulators may communicate with the entity concerning
matters that affect the functioning of internal control, for example, communications concerning examinations by bank
regulatory agencies. Also, management may consider communications relating to internal control from external
auditors in performing monitoring activities.
Appendix 2
(Ref: Para. A33, A115)
Conditions and Events That May Indicate Risks of Material Misstatement
The following are examples of conditions and events that may indicate the existence of risks of material misstatement. The
examples provided cover a broad range of conditions and events; however, not all conditions and events are relevant to
every audit engagement and the list of examples is not necessarily complete.
* Operations in regions that are economically unstable, for example, countries with significant currency devaluation or
highly inflationary economies.
* Operations exposed to volatile markets, for example, futures trading.
* Operations that are subject to a high degree of complex regulation.
* Going concern and liquidity issues including loss of significant customers.
* Constraints on the availability of capital and credit.
* Changes in the industry in which the entity operates.
* Changes in the supply chain.

<!-- page 206 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
206A
* Developing or offering new products or services, or moving into new lines of business.
* Expanding into new locations.
* Changes in the entity such as large acquisitions or reorganizations or other unusual events.
* Entities or business segments likely to be sold.
* The existence of complex alliances and joint ventures.
* Use of off-balance-sheet finance, special-purpose entities, and other complex financing arrangements.
* Significant transactions with related parties.
* Lack of personnel with appropriate accounting and financial reporting skills.
* Changes in key personnel including departure of key executives.
* Deficiencies in internal control, especially those not addressed by management.
* Inconsistencies between the entity’s IT strategy and its business strategies.
* Changes in the IT environment.
* Installation of significant new IT systems related to financial reporting.
* Inquiries into the entity’s operations or financial results by regulatory or government bodies.
* Past misstatements, history of errors or a significant amount of adjustments at period end.
* Significant amount of non-routine or non-systematic transactions including intercompany transactions and large
revenue transactions at period end.
* Transactions that are recorded based on management’s intent, for example, debt refinancing, assets to be sold and
classification of marketable securities.
* Application of new accounting pronouncements.
* Accounting measurements that involve complex processes.
* Events or transactions that involve significant measurement uncertainty, including accounting estimates.
* Pending litigation and contingent liabilities, for example, sales warranties, financial guarantees and environmental
remediation.

<!-- page 207 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
207A
SRI LANKA   AUDITING   STANDARD   320
MATERIALITY  IN  PLANNING  AND  PERFORMING  AN  AUDIT
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................ 1
Materiality in the Context of an Audit ................................................. 2-6
Effective Date ...................................................................................... 7
Objective  ............................................................................................ 8
Definition ............................................................................................ 9
Requirements
Determining Materiality and Performance Materiality When
Planning the Audit ....................................................................... 10 -11
Revision as the Audit Progresses ........................................................ 12 - 13
Documentation ..................................................................................... 14
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Materiality and Audit Risk .................................................................. A1
Determining Materiality and Performance Materiality When
Planning the Audit ....................................................................... A2 - A12
Revision as the Audit Progresses ………............................................. A13
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit”
should be read in the context of SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to apply the concept of materiality
in planning and performing an audit of financial statements. SLAuS 450
1 explains how materiality is applied in
evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the
financial statements.
Materiality in the Context of an Audit
2. Financial reporting frameworks often discuss the concept of materiality in the context of the preparation and
presentation of financial statements. Although financial reporting frameworks may discuss materiality in different
terms, they generally explain that:
1 SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit.”

<!-- page 208 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
208A
* Misstatements, including omissions, are considered to be material if they, individually or in the aggregate,
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial
statements;
* Judgments about materiality are made in light of surrounding circumstances, and are affected by the size or
nature of a misstatement, or a combination of both; and
* Judgments about matters that are material to users of the financial statements are based on a consideration of
the common financial information needs of users as a group.
2 The possible effect of misstatements on specific
individual users, whose needs may vary widely, is not considered.
3. Such a discussion, if present in the applicable financial reporting framework, provides a frame of reference to the
auditor in determining materiality for the audit. If the applicable financial reporting framework does not include a
discussion of the concept of materiality, the characteristics referred to in paragraph 2 provide the auditor with such
a frame of reference.
4. The auditor’s determination of materiality is a matter of professional judgment, and is affected by the auditor’s
perception of the financial information needs of users of the financial statements. In this context, it is reasonable for
the auditor to assume that users:
(a) Have a reasonable knowledge of business and economic activities and accounting and a willingness to study
the information in the financial statements with reasonable diligence;
(b) Understand that financial statements are prepared, presented and audited to levels of materiality;
(c) Recognize the uncertainties inherent in the measurement of amounts based on the use of estimates, judgment
and the consideration of future events; and
(d) Make reasonable economic decisions on the basis of the information in the financial statements.
5. The concept of materiality is applied by the auditor both in planning and performing the audit, and in evaluating the
effect of identified misstatements on the audit and of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements
and in forming the opinion in the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A1)
6. In planning the audit, the auditor makes judgments about the size of misstatements that will be considered material.
These judgments provide a basis for:
(a) Determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures;
(b) Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement; and
(c) Determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
The materiality determined when planning the audit does not necessarily establish an amount below which uncorrected
misstatements, individually or in the aggregate, will always be evaluated as immaterial. The circumstances related to
some misstatements may cause the auditor to evaluate them as material even if they are below materiality. Although
it is not practicable to design audit procedures to detect misstatements that could be material solely because of their
nature, the auditor considers not only the size but also the nature of uncorrected misstatements, and the particular
circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial statements.
 3
UDITING
2 For example, the “Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements,” adopted by the Council of the Insti tute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka in 2011, indicates that, for a profit-oriented entity, as investors are providers of risk  capital
to the enterprise, the provision of financial statements that meet their needs will also meet most of the needs of other users that
financial statements can satisfy.
3 SLAuS 450, paragraph A16.

<!-- page 209 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
209A
Effective Date
7. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
8. The objective of the auditor is to apply the concept of materiality appropriately in planning and performing the audit.
Definition
9. For purposes of the SLAuSs, performance materiality means the amount or amounts set by the auditor at less than
materiality for the financial statements as a whole to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole. If
applicable, performance materiality also refers to the amount or amounts set by the auditor at less than the materiality
level or levels for particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures.
Requirements
Determining Materiality and Performance Materiality When Planning the Audit
10. When establishing the overall audit strategy, the auditor shall determine materiality for the financial statements as a
whole. If, in the specific circumstances of the entity, there is one or more particular classes of transactions, account
balances or disclosures for which misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a
whole could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial
statements, the auditor shall also determine the materiality level or levels to be applied to those particular classes of
transactions, account balances or disclosures. (Ref: Para. A2-A11)
11. The auditor shall determine performance materiality for purposes of assessing the risks of material misstatement and
determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures. (Ref: Para. A12)
Revision as the Audit Progresses
12. The auditor shall revise materiality for the financial statements as a whole (and, if applicable, the materiality level or
levels for particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures) in the event of becoming aware of
information during the audit that would have caused the auditor to have determined a different amount (or amounts)
initially. (Ref: Para. A13)
13. If the auditor concludes that a lower materiality for the financial statements as a whole (and, if applicable, materiality
level or levels for particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures) than that initially determined is
appropriate, the auditor shall determine whether it is necessary to revise performance materiality, and whether the
nature, timing and extent of the further audit procedures remain appropriate.
Documentation
14. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation the following amounts and the factors considered in their
determination:
4
(a) Materiality for the financial statements as a whole (see paragraph 10);
(b) If applicable, the materiality level or levels for particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures
(see paragraph 10);
(c) Performance materiality (see paragraph 11); and
(d) Any revision of (a)-(c) as the audit progressed (see paragraphs 12-13).
***
4 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.

<!-- page 210 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
210A
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Materiality and Audit Risk (Ref: Para. 5)
A1. In conducting an audit of financial statements, the overall objectives of the auditor are to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
thereby enabling the auditor to express an opinion on whether the financial statements are prepared, in all material
respects, in accordance with an applicable financial reporting framework; and to report on the financial statements,
and communicate as required by the SLAuSs, in accordance with the auditor’s findings.5 The auditor obtains reasonable
assurance by obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level. 6 Audit
risk is the risk that the auditor expresses an inappropriate audit opinion when the financial statements are materially
misstated. Audit risk is a function of the risks of material misstatement and detection risk.7 Materiality and audit risk
are considered throughout the audit, in particular, when:
(a) Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement; 8
(b) Determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures; 9 and
(c) Evaluating the effect of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements 10 and in forming the
opinion in the auditor’s report.11
Determining Materiality and Performance Materiality When Planning the Audit
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities (Ref: Para. 10)
A2. In the case of a public sector entity, legislators and regulators are often the primary users of its financial statements.
Furthermore, the financial statements may be used to make decisions other than economic decisions. The determination
of materiality for the financial statements as a whole (and, if applicable, materiality level or levels for particular classes
of transactions, account balances or disclosures) in an audit of the financial statements of a public sector entity is
therefore influenced by law, regulation or other authority, and by the financial information needs of legislators and the
public in relation to public sector programs.
Use of Benchmarks in Determining Materiality for the Financial Statements as a Whole (Ref: Para. 10)
A3. Determining materiality involves the exercise of professional judgment. A percentage is often applied to a chosen
benchmark as a starting point in determining materiality for the financial statements as a whole. Factors that may
affect the identification of an appropriate benchmark include the following:
* The elements of the financial statements (for example, assets, liabilities, equity, revenue, expenses);
*  Whether there are items on which the attention of the users of the particular entity’s financial statements tends
to be focused (for example, for the purpose of evaluating financial performance users may tend to focus on
profit, revenue or net assets);
5 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph 11.
6 SLAuS 200, paragraph 17.
7 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(c).

<!-- page 211 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
211A
* The nature of the entity, where the entity is in its life cycle, and the industry and economic environment in
which the entity operates;
* The entity’s ownership structure and the way it is financed (for example, if an entity is financed solely by debt
rather than equity, users may put more emphasis on assets, and claims on them, than on the entity’s earnings);
and
·  *    The relative volatility of the benchmark.
A4. Examples of benchmarks that may be appropriate, depending on the circumstances of the entity, include categories
of reported income such as profit before tax, total revenue, gross profit and total expenses, total equity or net asset
value. Profit before tax from continuing operations is often used for profit-oriented entities. When profit before tax
from continuing operations is volatile, other benchmarks may be more appropriate, such as gross profit or total
revenues.
A5. In relation to the chosen benchmark, relevant financial data ordinarily includes prior periods’ financial results and
financial positions, the period-to-date financial results and financial position, and budgets or forecasts for the current
period, adjusted for significant changes in the circumstances of the entity (for example, a significant business
acquisition) and relevant changes of conditions in the industry or economic environment in which the entity operates.
For example, when, as a starting point, materiality for the financial statements as a whole is determined for a particular
entity based on a percentage of profit before tax from continuing operations, circumstances that give rise to an
exceptional decrease or increase in such profit may lead the auditor to conclude that materiality for the financial
statements as a whole is more appropriately determined using a normalized profit before tax from continuing operations
figure based on past results.
A6. Materiality relates to the financial statements on which the auditor is reporting. Where the financial statements are
prepared for a financial reporting period of more or less than twelve months, such as may be the case for a new entity
or a change in the financial reporting period, materiality relates to the financial statements prepared for that financial
reporting period.
A7. Determining a percentage to be applied to a chosen benchmark involves the exercise of professional judgment. There
is a relationship between the percentage and the chosen benchmark, such that a percentage applied to profit before
tax from continuing operations will normally be higher than a percentage applied to total revenue. For example, the
auditor may consider five percent of profit before tax from continuing operations to be appropriate for a profit-
oriented entity in a manufacturing industry, while the auditor may consider one percent of total revenue or total
expenses to be appropriate for a not-for-profit entity. Higher or lower percentages, however, may be deemed appropriate
in the circumstances.
Considerations Specific to Small Entities
A8. When an entity’s profit before tax from continuing operations is consistently nominal, as might be the case for an
owner-managed business where the owner takes much of the profit before tax in the form of remuneration, a benchmark
such as profit before remuneration and tax may be more relevant.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
8 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its
Environment.”
9 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”
10 SLAuS 450.
11 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements.”

<!-- page 212 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
212A
A9. In an audit of a public sector entity, total cost or net cost (expenses less revenues or expenditure less receipts) may
be appropriate benchmarks for program activities. Where a public sector entity has custody of public assets, assets
may be an appropriate benchmark.
Materiality Level or Levels for Particular Classes of Transactions, Account Balances or Disclosures (Ref: Para. 10)
A10. Factors that may indicate the existence of one or more particular classes of transactions, account balances or
disclosures for which misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements
include the following:
*  Whether law, regulation or the applicable financial reporting framework affect users’ expectations regarding the
measurement or disclosure of certain items (for example, related party transactions, and the remuneration of
management and those charged with governance).
*  The key disclosures in relation to the industry in which the entity operates (for example, research and development
costs for a pharmaceutical company).
* Whether attention is focused on a particular aspect of the entity’s business that is separately disclosed in the
financial statements (for example, a newly acquired business).
A11. In considering whether, in the specific circumstances of the entity, such classes of transactions, account balances or
disclosures exist, the auditor may find it useful to obtain an understanding of the views and expectations of those
charged with governance and management.
Performance Materiality (Ref: Para. 11)
A12. Planning the audit solely to detect individually material misstatements overlooks the fact that the aggregate of
individually immaterial misstatements may cause the financial statements to be materially misstated, and leaves no
margin for possible undetected misstatements. Performance materiality (which, as defined, is one or more amounts) is
set to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected
misstatements in the financial statements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole. Similarly,
performance materiality relating to a materiality level determined for a particular class of transactions, account balance
or disclosure is set to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and
undetected misstatements in that particular class of transactions, account balance or disclosure exceeds the materiality
level for that particular class of transactions, account balance or disclosure. The determination of performance
materiality is not a simple mechanical calculation and involves the exercise of professional judgment. It is affected by
the auditor’s understanding of the entity, updated during the performance of the risk assessment procedures; and the
nature and extent of misstatements identified in previous audits and thereby the auditor’s expectations in relation to
misstatements in the current period.
Revision as the Audit Progresses (Ref: Para. 12)
A13. Materiality for the financial statements as a whole (and, if applicable, the materiality level or levels for particular
classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures) may need to be revised as a result of a change in circumstances
that occurred during the audit (for example, a decision to dispose of a major part of the entity’s business), new
information, or a change in the auditor’s understanding of the entity and its operations as a result of performing
further audit procedures. For example, if during the audit it appears as though actual financial results are likely to be
substantially different from the anticipated period end financial results that were used initially to determine materiality
for the financial statements as a whole, the auditor revises that materiality.

<!-- page 213 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
213A
SRI LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  330
THE AUDITOR’S RESPONSES TO ASSESSED RISKS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................ 1
Effective Date ...................................................................................... 2
Objective ............................................................................................. 3
Definitions .......................................................................................... 4
Requirements
Overall Responses ................................................................................ 5
Audit Procedures Responsive to the Assessed Risks of Material
Misstatement at the Assertion Level ............................................ 6-23
Adequacy of Presentation and Disclosure ............................................ 24
Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit
        Evidence ...................................................................................... 25-27
Documentation ..................................................................................... 28-30
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Overall Responses ............................................................................... A1-A3
Audit Procedures Responsive to the Assessed Risks of Material
Misstatement at the Assertion Level ........................................... A4-A58
Adequacy of Presentation and Disclosure............................................ A59
Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit
Evidence ....................................................................................... A60-A62
Documentation .................................................................................... A63
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks” should
be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”

<!-- page 214 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
214A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to design and implement responses
to the risks of material misstatement identified and assessed by the auditor in accordance with SLAuS 3151 in an audit
of financial statements.
Effective Date
2. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014
Objective
3. The objective of the auditor is to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material
misstatement, through designing and implementing appropriate responses to those risks.
Definitions
4. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Substantive procedure – An audit procedure designed to detect material misstatements at the assertion level.
Substantive procedures comprise:
(i) Tests of details (of classes of transactions, account balances, and disclosures); and
(ii) Substantive analytical procedures.
(b) Test of controls – An audit procedure designed to evaluate the operating effectiveness of controls in preventing,
or detecting and correcting, material misstatements at the assertion level.
Requirements
Overall Responses
5. The auditor shall design and implement overall responses to address the assessed risks of material misstatement at
the financial statement level. (Ref: Para. A1-A3)
ADITING
Audit Procedures Responsive to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement at the Assertion Level
6. The auditor shall design and perform further audit procedures whose nature, timing, and extent are based on and are
responsive to the assessed risks of material misstatement at the assertion level. (Ref: Para. A4-A8)
7. In designing the further audit procedures to be performed, the auditor shall:
(a) Consider the reasons for the assessment given to the risk of material misstatement at the assertion level for each
class of transactions, account balance, and disclosure, including:
(i) The likelihood of material misstatement due to the particular characteristics of the relevant class of
transactions, account balance, or disclosure (that is, the inherent risk); and
SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment.”
9

<!-- page 215 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
215A
(ii) Whether the risk assessment takes account of relevant controls (that is, the control risk), thereby requiring
the auditor to obtain audit evidence to determine whether the controls are operating effectively (that is,
the auditor intends to rely on the operating effectiveness of controls in determining the nature, timing
and extent of substantive procedures); and (Ref: Para. A9-A18)
(b)  Obtain more persuasive audit evidence the higher the auditor’s assessment of risk. (Ref: Para. A19)
Tests of Controls
8. The auditor shall design and perform tests of controls to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence as to the
operating effectiveness of relevant controls if:
(a) The auditor’s assessment of risks of material misstatement at the assertion level includes an expectation that
the controls are operating effectively (that is, the auditor intends to rely on the operating effectiveness of
controls in determining the nature, timing and extent of substantive procedures); or
(b) Substantive procedures alone cannot provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence at the assertion level. (Ref:
Para. A20-A24)
9. In designing and performing tests of controls, the auditor shall obtain more persuasive audit evidence the greater the
reliance the auditor places on the effectiveness of a control. (Ref: Para. A25)
Nature and Extent of Tests of Controls
10. In designing and performing tests of controls, the auditor shall:
(a) Perform other audit procedures in combination with inquiry to obtain audit evidence about the operating
effectiveness of the controls, including:
(i) How the controls were applied at relevant times during the period under audit;
(ii) The consistency with which they were applied; and
(iii) By whom or by what means they were applied. (Ref: Para. A26-A29)
(b) Determine whether the controls to be tested depend upon other controls (indirect controls) and, if so,
whether it is necessary to obtain audit evidence supporting the effective operation of those indirect controls.
(Ref: Para. A30-A31)
Timing of Tests of Controls
11. The auditor shall test controls for the particular time, or throughout the period, for which the auditor intends to rely
on those controls, subject to paragraphs 12 and 15 below, in order to provide an appropriate basis for the auditor’s
intended reliance. (Ref: Para. A32)
Using audit evidence obtained during an interim period
12. If the auditor obtains audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of controls during an interim period, the
auditor shall:
(a) Obtain audit evidence about significant changes to those controls subsequent to the interim period; and
(b) Determine the additional audit evidence to be obtained for the remaining period. (Ref: Para. A33-A34)
Using audit evidence obtained in previous audits

<!-- page 216 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
216A
13. In determining whether it is appropriate to use audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of controls
obtained in previous audits, and, if so, the length of the time period that may elapse before retesting a control, the
auditor shall consider the following:
(a) The effectiveness of other elements of internal control, including the control environment, the entity’s monitoring
of controls, and the entity’s risk assessment process;
(b) The risks arising from the characteristics of the control, including whether it is manual or automated;
AUDITING
(c) The effectiveness of general IT-controls;
(d) The effectiveness of the control and its application by the entity, including the nature and extent of deviations
in the application of the control noted in previous audits, and whether there have been personnel changes that
significantly affect the application of the control;
(e) Whether the lack of a change in a particular control poses a risk due to changing circumstances; and
(f) The risks of material misstatement and the extent of reliance on the control. (Ref: Para. A35)
14. If the auditor plans to use audit evidence from a previous audit about the operating effectiveness of specific controls,
the auditor shall establish the continuing relevance of that evidence by obtaining audit evidence about whether
significant changes in those controls have occurred subsequent to the previous audit. The auditor shall obtain this
evidence by performing inquiry combined with observation or inspection, to confirm the understanding of those
specific controls, and:
(a) If there have been changes that affect the continuing relevance of the audit evidence from the previous audit,
the auditor shall test the controls in the current audit. (Ref: Para. A36)
(b) If there have not been such changes, the auditor shall test the controls at least once in every third audit, and
shall test some controls each audit to avoid the possibility of testing all the controls on which the auditor
intends to rely in a single audit period with no testing of controls in the subsequent two audit periods. (Ref:
Para. A37-A39)
Controls over significant risks
15. If the auditor plans to rely on controls over a risk the auditor has determined to be a significant risk, the auditor shall
test those controls in the current period.
Evaluating the Operating Effectiveness of Controls
16. When evaluating the operating effectiveness of relevant controls, the auditor shall evaluate whether misstatements
that have been detected by substantive procedures indicate that controls are not operating effectively. The absence
of misstatements detected by substantive procedures, however, does not provide audit evidence that controls
related to the assertion being tested are effective. (Ref: Para. A40)
17. If deviations from controls upon which the auditor intends to rely are detected, the auditor shall make specific
inquiries to understand these matters and their potential consequences, and shall determine whether: (Ref: Para. A41)
(a) The tests of controls that have been performed provide an appropriate basis for reliance on the controls;
(b) Additional tests of controls are necessary; or
(c) The potential risks of misstatement need to be addressed using substantive procedures.

<!-- page 217 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
217A
    Substantive Procedures
18. Irrespective of the assessed risks of material misstatement, the auditor shall design and perform substantive procedures
for each material class of transactions, account balance, and disclosure. (Ref: Para. A42-A47)
19. The auditor shall consider whether external confirmation procedures are to be performed as substantive audit
procedures. (Ref: Para. A48-A51)
Substantive Procedures Related to the Financial Statement Closing Process
20. The auditor’s substantive procedures shall include the following audit procedures related to the financial statement
closing process:
(a) Agreeing or reconciling the financial statements with the underlying accounting records; and
(b) Examining material journal entries and other adjustments made during the course of preparing the financial
statements. (Ref: Para. A52)
Substantive Procedures Responsive to Significant Risks
21. If the auditor has determined that an assessed risk of material misstatement at the assertion level is a significant risk,
the auditor shall perform substantive procedures that are specifically responsive to that risk. When the approach to a
significant risk consists only of substantive procedures, those procedures shall include tests of details. (Ref: Para.
A53)
Timing of Substantive Procedures
22. If substantive procedures are performed at an interim date, the auditor shall cover the remaining period by performing:
(a) substantive procedures, combined with tests of controls for the intervening period; or
(b) if the auditor determines that it is sufficient, further substantive procedures only,
that provide a reasonable basis for extending the audit conclusions from the interim date to the period end. (Ref: Para. A54-
A57)
23. If misstatements that the auditor did not expect when assessing the risks of material misstatement are detected at an
interim date, the auditor shall evaluate whether the related assessment of risk and the planned nature, timing, or extent
of substantive procedures covering the remaining period need to be modified. (Ref: Para. A58)
Adequacy of Presentation and Disclosure
24. The auditor shall perform audit procedures to evaluate whether the overall presentation of the financial statements,
including the related disclosures, is in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. (Ref: Para. A59)
Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence
25. Based on the audit procedures performed and the audit evidence obtained, the auditor shall evaluate before the
conclusion of the audit whether the assessments of the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level remain
appropriate. (Ref: Para. A60-A61)
26. The auditor shall conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained. In forming an opinion,
the auditor shall consider all relevant audit evidence, regardless of whether it appears to corroborate or to contradict
the assertions in the financial statements. (Ref: Para. A62)

<!-- page 218 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
218A
27. If the auditor has not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence as to a material financial statement assertion, the
auditor shall attempt to obtain further audit evidence. If the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence, the auditor shall express a qualified opinion or disclaim an opinion on the financial statements.
Documentation
28. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation: 2
(a) The overall responses to address the assessed risks of material misstatement at the financial statement level,
and the nature, timing, and extent of the further audit procedures performed;
(b) The linkage of those procedures with the assessed risks at the assertion level; and
(c) The results of the audit procedures, including the conclusions where these are not otherwise clear. (Ref: Para.
A63)
29. If the auditor plans to use audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of controls obtained in previous audits,
the auditor shall include in the audit documentation the conclusions reached about relying on such controls that
were tested in a previous audit.
30. The auditor’s documentation shall demonstrate that the financial statements agree or reconcile with the underlying
accounting records.
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Overall Responses (Ref: Para. 5)
A1. Overall responses to address the assessed risks of material misstatement at the financial statement level may include:
∗  Emphasizing to the audit team the need to maintain professional skepticism.
∗  Assigning more experienced staff or those with special skills or using experts.
∗  Providing more supervision.
* Incorporating additional elements of unpredictability in the selection of further audit procedures to be performed.
∗  Making general changes to the nature, timing, or extent of audit procedures, for example: performing substantive
procedures at the period end instead of at an interim date; or modifying the nature of audit procedures to obtain
more persuasive audit evidence.
A2. The assessment of the risks of material misstatement at the financial statement level, and thereby the auditor’s overall
responses, is affected by the auditor’s understanding of the control environment. An effective control environment
may allow the auditor to have more confidence in internal control and the reliability of audit evidence generated
internally within the entity and thus, for example, allow the auditor to conduct some audit procedures at an interim
date rather than at the period end. Deficiencies in the control environment, however, have the opposite effect; for
example, the auditor may respond to an ineffective control environment by:
* Conducting more audit procedures as of the period end rather than at an interim date.
* Obtaining more extensive audit evidence from substantive procedures.
* Increasing the number of locations to be included in the audit scope.
2 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.

<!-- page 219 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
219A
A3. Such considerations, therefore, have a significant bearing on the auditor’s general approach, for example, an emphasis
on substantive procedures (substantive approach), or an approach that uses tests of controls as well as substantive
procedures (combined approach).
Audit Procedures Responsive to the Assessed Risks of Material
Misstatement at the Assertion Level
The Nature, Timing, and Extent of Further Audit Procedures (Ref: Para. 6)
A4.  The auditor’s assessment of the identified risks at the assertion level provides a basis for considering the appropriate
audit approach for designing and performing further audit procedures. For example, the auditor may determine that:
(a) Only by performing tests of controls may the auditor achieve an effective response to the assessed risk of
material misstatement for a particular assertion;
(b) Performing only substantive procedures is appropriate for particular assertions and, therefore, the auditor
excludes the effect of controls from the relevant risk assessment. This may be because the auditor’s risk
assessment procedures have not identified any effective controls relevant to the assertion, or because testing
controls would be inefficient and therefore the auditor does not intend to rely on the operating effectiveness of
controls in determining the nature, timing and extent of substantive procedures; or
(c) A combined approach using both tests of controls and substantive procedures is an effective approach.
However, as required by paragraph 18, irrespective of the approach selected, the auditor designs and performs
substantive procedures for each material class of transactions, account balance, and disclosure.
A5.  The nature of an audit procedure refers to its purpose (that is, test of controls or substantive procedure) and its type
(that is, inspection, observation, inquiry, confirmation, recalculation, reperformance, or analytical procedure). The
nature of the audit procedures is of most importance in responding to the assessed risks.
A6. Timing of an audit procedure refers to when it is performed, or the period or date to which the audit evidence applies.
A7. Extent of an audit procedure refers to the quantity to be performed, for example, a sample size or the number of
observations of a control activity.
A8. Designing and performing further audit procedures whose nature, timing, and extent are based on and are responsive
to the assessed risks of material misstatement at the assertion level provides a clear linkage between the auditor’s
further audit procedures and the risk assessment.
Responding to the Assessed Risks at the Assertion Level (Ref: Para. 7(a))
Nature
A9. The auditor’s assessed risks may affect both the types of audit procedures to be performed and their combination.
For example, when an assessed risk is high, the auditor may confirm the completeness of the terms of a contract with
the counterparty, in addition to inspecting the document. Further, certain audit procedures may be more appropriate
for some assertions than others. For example, in relation to revenue, tests of controls may be most responsive to the
assessed risk of misstatement of the completeness assertion, whereas substantive procedures may be most responsive
to the assessed risk of misstatement of the occurrence assertion.
A10. The reasons for the assessment given to a risk are relevant in determining the nature of audit procedures. For
example, if an assessed risk is lower because of the particular characteristics of a class of transactions without
consideration of the related controls, then the auditor may determine that substantive analytical procedures alone

<!-- page 220 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
220A
provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence. On the other hand, if the assessed risk is lower because of internal
controls, and the auditor intends to base the substantive procedures on that low assessment, then the auditor
performs tests of those controls, as required by paragraph 8(a). This may be the case, for example, for a class of
transactions of reasonably uniform, non-complex characteristics that are routinely processed and controlled by the
entity’s information system.
Timing
A11. The auditor may perform tests of controls or substantive procedures at an interim date or at the period end. The
higher the risk of material misstatement, the more likely it is that the auditor may decide it is more effective to perform
substantive procedures nearer to, or at, the period end rather than at an earlier date, or to perform audit procedures
unannounced or at unpredictable times (for example, performing audit procedures at selected locations on an
unannounced basis). This is particularly relevant when considering the response to the risks of fraud. For example,
the auditor may conclude that, when the risks of intentional misstatement or manipulation have been identified,
audit procedures to extend audit conclusions from interim date to the period end would not be effective.
A12. On the other hand, performing audit procedures before the period end may assist the auditor in identifying significant
matters at an early stage of the audit, and consequently resolving them with the assistance of management or
developing an effective audit approach to address such matters.
A13. In addition, certain audit procedures can be performed only at or after the period end, for example:
∗ Agreeing the financial statements to the accounting records;
∗ Examining adjustments made during the course of preparing the financial statements; and
∗ Procedures to respond to a risk that, at the period end, the entity may have entered into improper sales
contracts, or transactions may not have been finalized.
A14. Further relevant factors that influence the auditor’s consideration of when to perform audit procedures include the
following:
∗ The control environment.
∗ When relevant information is available (for example, electronic files may subsequently be overwritten, or
procedures to be observed may occur only at certain times).
∗ The nature of the risk (for example, if there is a risk of inflated revenues to meet earnings expectations by
subsequent creation of false sales agreements, the auditor may wish to examine contracts available on the date
of the period end).
∗ The period or date to which the audit evidence relates.
Extent
A15. The extent of an audit procedure judged necessary is determined after considering the materiality, the assessed risk,
and the degree of assurance the auditor plans to obtain. When a single purpose is met by a combination of  procedures,
the extent of each procedure is considered separately. In general, the extent of audit procedures increases as the risk
of material misstatement increases. For example, in response to the assessed risk of material misstatement due to
fraud, increasing sample sizes or performing substantive analytical procedures at a more detailed level may be
appropriate. However, increasing the extent of an audit procedure is effective only if the audit procedure itself is
relevant to the specific risk.

<!-- page 221 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
221A
A16. The use of computer-assisted audit techniques (CAATs) may enable more extensive testing of electronic transactions
and account files, which may be useful when the auditor decides to modify the extent of testing, for example, in
responding to the risks of material misstatement due to fraud. Such techniques can be used to select sample
transactions from key electronic files, to sort transactions with specific characteristics, or to test an entire population
instead of a sample.
Considerations specific to public sector entities
A17. For the audits of public sector entities, the audit mandate and any other special auditing requirements may affect
the auditor’s consideration of the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A18. In the case of very small entities, there may not be many control activities that could be identified by the auditor, or
the extent to which their existence or operation have been documented by the entity may be limited. In such cases,
it may be more efficient for the auditor to perform further audit procedures that are primarily substantive procedures.
In some rare cases, however, the absence of control activities or of other components of control may make it
impossible to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
Higher Assessments of Risk (Ref: Para 7(b)
A19. When obtaining more persuasive audit evidence because of a higher assessment of risk, the auditor may increase
the quantity of the evidence, or obtain evidence that is more relevant or reliable, for example, by placing more
emphasis on obtaining third party evidence or by obtaining corroborating evidence from a number of independent
sources.
Tests of Controls
Designing and Performing Tests of Controls (Ref: Para. 8)
A20. T ests of controls are performed only on those controls that the auditor has determined are suitably designed to
prevent, or detect and correct, a material misstatement in an assertion. If substantially different controls were used
at different times during the period under audit, each is considered separately.
A21. T esting the operating effectiveness of controls is different from obtaining an understanding of and evaluating the
design and implementation of controls. However, the same types of audit procedures are used. The auditor may,
therefore, decide it is efficient to test the operating effectiveness of controls at the same time as evaluating their
design and determining that they have been implemented.
A22. Further, although some risk assessment procedures may not have been specifically designed as tests of controls,
they may nevertheless provide audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of the controls and, consequently,
serve as tests of controls. For example, the auditor’s risk assessment procedures may have included:
∗ Inquiring about management’s use of budgets.
∗ Observing management’s comparison of monthly budgeted and actual expenses.
∗ Inspecting reports pertaining to the investigation of variances between budgeted and actual amounts.
These audit procedures provide knowledge about the design of the entity’s budgeting policies and whether they have
been implemented, but may also provide audit evidence about the effectiveness of the operation of budgeting policies
in preventing or detecting material misstatements in the classification of expenses.

<!-- page 222 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
222A
A23. In addition, the auditor may design a test of controls to be performed concurrently with a test of details on the same
transaction. Although the purpose of a test of controls is different from the purpose of a test of details, both may be
accomplished concurrently by performing a test of controls and a test of details on the same transaction, also known
as a dual-purpose test. For example, the auditor may design, and evaluate the results of, a test to examine an invoice
to determine whether it has been approved and to provide substantive audit evidence of a transaction. A dual-
purpose test is designed and evaluated by considering each purpose of the test separately.
A24. In s ome cases, the auditor may find it impossible to design effective substantive procedures that by themselves
provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence at the assertion level.
3 This may occur when an entity conducts its
business using IT and no documentation of transactions is produced or maintained, other than through the IT
system. In such cases, paragraph 8(b) requires the auditor to perform tests of relevant controls.
Audit Evidence and Intended Reliance (Ref: Para. 9)
A25. A higher level of assurance may be sought about the operating effectiveness of controls when the approach
adopted consists primarily of tests of controls, in particular where it is not possible or practicable to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence only from substantive procedures.
Nature and Extent of Tests of Controls
Other audit procedures in combination with inquiry (Ref: Para. 10(a))
A26. Inquiry alone is not sufficient to test the operating effectiveness of controls. Accordingly, other audit
procedures are performed in combination with inquiry. In this regard, inquiry combined with inspection or
reperformance may provide more assurance than inquiry and observation, since an observation is pertinent only
at the point in time at which it is made.
A27. The nature of the particular control influences the type of procedure required to obtain audit evidence about
whether the control was operating effectively. For example, if operating effectiveness is evidenced by
documentation, the auditor may decide to inspect it to obtain audit evidence about operating effectiveness. For
other controls, however, documentation may not be available or relevant. For example, documentation of
operation may not exist for some factors in the control environment, such as assignment of authority and
responsibility, or for some types of control activities, such as control activities performed by a computer. In such
circumstances, audit evidence about operating effectiveness may be obtained through inquiry in combination
with other audit procedures such as observation or the use of CAATs.
Extent of tests of controls
A28. When more persuasive audit evidence is needed regarding the effectiveness of a control, it may be appropriate
to increase the extent of testing of the control. As well as the degree of reliance on controls, matters the auditor
may consider in determining the extent of tests of controls include the following:
∗ The frequency of the performance of the control by the entity during the period.
∗ The length of time during the audit period that the auditor is relying on the operating effectiveness of the
control.
∗ The expected rate of deviation from a control.
∗ The relevance and reliability of the audit evidence to be obtained regarding the operating effectiveness of the
control at the assertion level.
∗ The extent to which audit evidence is obtained from tests of other controls related to the assertion.
4 SLAuS 530 4 contains further guidance on the extent of testing.
3 SLAuS 315 paraqraph  30

<!-- page 223 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
223A
A29.   Because of the inherent consistency of IT processing, it may not be necessary to increase the extent of testing of
an automated control. An automated control can be expected to function consistently unless the program
(including the tables, files, or other permanent data used by the program) is changed. Once the auditor determines
that an automated control is functioning as intended (which could be done at the time the control is initially
implemented or at some other date), the auditor may consider performing tests to determine that the control
continues to function effectively. Such tests might include determining that:
∗ Changes to the program are not made without being subject to the appropriate program change controls;
∗ The authorized version of the program is used for processing transactions; and
• AUDITING
∗ Other relevant general controls are effective.
Such tests also might include determining that changes to the programs have not been made, as may be the case
when the entity uses packaged software applications without modifying or maintaining them. For example, the
auditor may inspect the record of the administration of IT security to obtain audit evidence that unauthorized
access has not occurred during the period.
Testing of indirect controls (Ref: Para. 10(b))
A30. In some circumstances, it may be necessary to obtain audit evidence supporting the effective operation of
indirect controls. For example, when the auditor decides to test the effectiveness of a user review of exception
reports detailing sales in excess of authorized credit limits, the user review and related follow up is the control
that is directly of relevance to the auditor. Controls over the accuracy of the information in the reports (for
example, the general IT-controls) are described as “indirect” controls.
A31. Because of the inherent consistency of IT processing, audit evidence about the implementation of an automated
application control, when considered in combination with audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of
the entity’s general controls (in particular, change controls), may also provide substantial audit evidence about
its operating effectiveness.
Timing of Tests of Controls
Intended period of reliance (Ref: Para. 11)
A32. Audit evidence pertaining only to a point in time may be sufficient for the auditor’s purpose, for example, when
testing controls over the entity’s physical inventory counting at the period end. If, on the other hand, the auditor
intends to rely on a control over a period, tests that are capable of providing audit evidence that the control
operated effectively at relevant times during that period are appropriate. Such tests may include tests of the
entity’s monitoring of controls.
Using audit evidence obtained during an interim period (Ref: Para. 12(b))
A33. Relevant factors in determining what additional audit evidence to obtain about controls that were operating
during the period remaining after an interim period, include:
∗ The significance of the assessed risks of material misstatement at the assertion level.
∗ The specific controls that were tested during the interim period, and significant changes to them since they
were tested, including changes in the information system, processes, and personnel.
∗ The degree to which audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of those controls was obtained.
∗ The length of the remaining period.
∗ The extent to which the auditor intends to reduce further substantive procedures based on the reliance of
controls.
∗ The control environment.

<!-- page 224 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
224A
A34. Additional audit evidence may be obtained, for example, by extending tests of controls over the remaining period or
testing the entity’s monitoring of controls.
Using audit evidence obtained in previous audits (Ref: Para. 13)
A35. In certain circumstances, audit evidence obtained from previous audits may provide audit evidence where the
auditor performs audit procedures to establish its continuing relevance. For example, in performing a previous audit,
the auditor may have determined that an automated control was functioning as intended. The auditor may obtain
audit evidence to determine whether changes to the automated control have been made that affect its continued
effective functioning through, for example, inquiries of management and the inspection of logs to indicate what
controls have been changed. Consideration of audit evidence about these changes may support either increasing or
decreasing the expected audit evidence to be obtained in the current period about the operating effectiveness of the
controls.
Controls that have changed from previous audits (Ref: Para. 14(a))
A36. Changes may affect the relevance of the audit evidence obtained in previous audits such that there may no longer
be a basis for continued reliance. For example, changes in a system that enable an entity to receive a new report from
the system probably do not affect the relevance of audit evidence from a previous audit; however, a change that
causes data to be accumulated or calculated differently does affect it.
Controls that have not changed from previous audits (Ref: Para. 14(b))
A37. The auditor’s decision on whether to rely on audit evidence obtained in previous audits for controls that:
(a) have not changed since they were last tested; and
(b) are not controls that mitigate a significant risk,
is a matter of professional judgment. In addition, the length of time between retesting such controls is also a matter
of professional judgment, but is required by paragraph 14 (b) to be at least once in every third year.
A38. In general, the higher the risk of material misstatement, or the greater the reliance on controls, the shorter the time
period elapsed, if any, is likely to be. Factors that may decrease the period for retesting a control, or result in not
relying on audit evidence obtained in previous audits at all, include the following:
* A deficient control environment.
* Deficient monitoring of controls.
* A significant manual element to the relevant controls.
* Personnel changes that significantly affect the application of the control.
*  Changing circumstances that indicate the need for changes in the control.
*  Deficient general IT-controls.
A39. When there are a number of controls for which the auditor intends to rely on audit evidence obtained in previous
audits, testing some of those controls in each audit provides corroborating information about the continuing
effectiveness of the control environment. This contributes to the auditor’s decision about whether it is appropriate to
rely on audit evidence obtained in previous audits.

<!-- page 225 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
225A
Evaluating the Operating Effectiveness of Controls (Ref: Para. 16-17)
A40. A material misstatement detected by the auditor’s procedures is a strong indicator of the existence of a significant
deficiency in internal control.
A41. The concept of effectiveness of the operation of controls recognizes that some deviations in the way controls are
applied by the entity may occur. Deviations from prescribed controls may be caused by such factors as changes
in key personnel, significant seasonal fluctuations in volume of transactions and human error. The detected rate of
deviation, in particular in comparison with the expected rate, may indicate that the control cannot be relied on to
reduce risk at the assertion level to that assessed by the auditor.
Substantive Procedures (Ref: Para. 18)
A42. Paragraph 18 requires the auditor to design and perform substantive procedures for each material class of
transactions, account balance, and disclosure, irrespective of the assessed risks of material misstatement. This
requirement reflects the facts that: (a) the auditor’s assessment of risk is judgmental and so may not identify all
risks of material misstatement; and (b) there are inherent limitations to internal control, including management
override.
Nature and Extent of Substantive Procedures
A43. Depending on the circumstances, the auditor may determine that:
* Performing only substantive analytical procedures will be sufficient to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low
level. For example, where the auditor’s assessment of risk is supported by audit evidence from tests of
controls.
* Only tests of details are appropriate.
* A combination of substantive analytical procedures and tests of details are most responsive to the assessed
risks.
A44. Substantive analytical procedures are generally more applicable to large volumes of transactions that tend to be
predictable over time. SLAuS 520
5 establishes requirements and provides guidance on the application of analytical
procedures during an audit.
A45. The nature of the risk and assertion is relevant to the design of tests of details. For example, tests of details
related to the existence or occurrence assertion may involve selecting from items contained in a financial
statement amount and obtaining the relevant audit evidence. On the other hand, tests of details related to the
completeness assertion may involve selecting from items that are expected to be included in the relevant financial
statement amount and investigating whether they are included.
A46. Because the assessment of the risk of material misstatement takes account of internal control, the extent of
substantive procedures may need to be increased when the results from tests of controls are unsatisfactory.
However, increasing the extent of an audit procedure is appropriate only if the audit procedure itself is relevant to
the specific risk.
A47. In designing tests of details, the extent of testing is ordinarily thought of in terms of the sample size. However,
other matters are also relevant, including whether it is more effective to use other selective means of testing. See
SLAuS 500.
6
Considering Whether External Confirmation Procedures Are to Be Performed (Ref: Para. 19)
5  SLAuS 520, “Analytical Procedures.”
6  SLAuS 500, “Audit Evidence,” paragraph 10.

<!-- page 226 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
226A
A48. External confirmation procedures frequently are relevant when addressing assertions associated with account
balances and their elements, but need not be restricted to these items. For example, the auditor may request external
confirmation of the terms of agreements, contracts, or transactions between an entity and other parties. External
confirmation procedures also may be performed to obtain audit evidence about the absence of certain conditions.
For example, a request may specifically seek confirmation that no “side agreement” exists that may be relevant to an
entity’s revenue cut-off assertion. Other situations where external confirmation procedures may provide relevant
audit evidence in responding to assessed risks of material misstatement include:
*  Bank balances and other information relevant to banking relationships.
*  Accounts receivable balances and terms.
*  Inventories held by third parties at bonded warehouses for processing or on consignment.
*  Property title deeds held by lawyers or financiers for safe custody or as security.
*  Investments held for safekeeping by third parties, or purchased from stockbrokers but not delivered at the
balance sheet date.
*  Amounts due to lenders, including relevant terms of repayment and restrictive covenants.
*  Accounts payable balances and terms.
A49. Although external confirmations may provide relevant audit evidence relating to certain assertions, there are some
assertions for which external confirmations provide less relevant audit evidence. For example, external confirmations
provide less relevant audit evidence relating to the recoverability of accounts receivable balances, than they do of
their existence.
A50. The auditor may determine that external confirmation procedures performed for one purpose provide an opportunity
to obtain audit evidence about other matters. For example, confirmation requests for bank balances often include
requests for information relevant to other financial statement assertions. Such considerations may influence the
auditor’s decision about whether to perform external confirmation procedures.
A51. Factors that may assist the auditor in determining whether external confirmation procedures are to be performed as
substantive audit procedures include:
* The confirming party’s knowledge of the subject matter – responses may be more reliable if provided by
a person at the confirming party who has the requisite knowledge about the information being confirmed.
* The ability or willingness of the intended confirming party to respond – for example, the confirming party:
* May not accept responsibility for responding to a confirmation request;
* May consider responding too costly or time consuming;
* May have concerns about the potential legal liability resulting from responding;
* May account for transactions in different currencies; or
* May operate in an environment where responding to confirmation requests is not a significant aspect of
day-to-day operations.
In such situations, confirming parties may not respond, may respond in a casual manner or may attempt
to restrict the reliance placed on the response.
* The objectivity of the intended confirming party – if the confirming party is a related party of the entity,
responses to confirmation requests may be less reliable.
Substantive Procedures Related to the Financial Statement Closing Process (Ref: Para. 20(b))

<!-- page 227 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
227A
A52. The nature, and also the extent, of the auditor’s examination of journal entries and other adjustments depends on the
nature and complexity of the entity’s financial reporting process and the related risks of material misstatement.
Substantive Procedures Responsive to Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 21)
A53. Paragraph 21 of this SLAuS requires the auditor to perform substantive procedures that are specifically responsive
to risks the auditor has determined to be significant risks. Audit evidence in the form of external confirmations
received directly by the auditor from appropriate confirming parties may assist the auditor in obtaining audit
evidence with the high level of reliability that the auditor requires to respond to significant risks of material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. For example, if the auditor identifies that management is under pressure
to meet earnings expectations, there may be a risk that management is inflating sales by improperly recognizing
revenue related to sales agreements with terms that preclude revenue recognition or by invoicing sales before
shipment. In these circumstances, the auditor may, for example, design external confirmation procedures not only to
confirm outstanding amounts, but also to confirm the details of the sales agreements, including date, any rights of
return and delivery terms. In addition, the auditor may find it effective to supplement such external confirmation
procedures with inquiries of non-financial personnel in the entity regarding any changes in sales agreements and
delivery terms.
Timing of Substantive Procedures (Ref: Para. 22-23)
A54. In most cases, audit evidence from a previous audit’s substantive procedures provides little or no audit evidence for
the current period. There are, however, exceptions, for example, a legal opinion obtained in a previous audit related
to the structure of a securitization to which no changes have occurred, may be relevant in the current period. In such
cases, it may be appropriate to use audit evidence from a previous audit’s substantive procedures if that evidence
and the related subject matter have not fundamentally changed, and audit procedures have been performed during
the current period to establish its continuing relevance.
Using audit evidence obtained during an interim period (Ref: Para. 22)
A55. In some circumstances, the auditor may determine that it is effective to perform substantive procedures at an interim
date, and to compare and reconcile information concerning the balance at the period end with the comparable
information at the interim date to:
(a) Identify amounts that appear unusual;
(b) Investigate any such amounts; and
(c) Perform substantive analytical procedures or tests of details to test the intervening period.
A56. Performing substantive procedures at an interim date without undertaking additional procedures at a later date
increases the risk that the auditor will not detect misstatements that may exist at the period end. This risk increases
as the remaining period is lengthened. Factors such as the following may influence whether to perform substantive
procedures at an interim date:
∗ The control environment and other relevant controls.
∗  The availability at a later date of information necessary for the auditor’s procedures.
∗  The purpose of the substantive procedure.
∗  The assessed risk of material misstatement.
∗  The nature of the class of transactions or account balance and related assertions.
∗ The ability of the auditor to perform appropriate substantive procedures or substantive procedures combined
with tests of controls to cover the remaining period in order to reduce the risk that misstatements that may exist
at the period end will not be detected.

<!-- page 228 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
228A
A57. Factors such as the following may influence whether to perform substantive analytical procedures with respect to
the period between the interim date and the period end:
∗ Whether the period end balances of the particular classes of transactions or account balances are reasonably
predictable with respect to amount, relative significance, and composition.
∗ Whether the entity’s procedures for analyzing and adjusting such classes of transactions or account balances
at interim dates and for establishing proper accounting cutoffs are appropriate.
∗ Whether the information system relevant to financial reporting will provide information concerning the balances
at the period end and the transactions in the remaining period that is sufficient to permit investigation of:
(a) Significant unusual transactions or entries (including those at or near the period end);
(b) Other causes of significant fluctuations, or expected fluctuations that did not occur; and
(c) Changes in the composition of the classes of transactions or account balances.
Misstatements detected at an interim date (Ref: Para. 23)
A58. When the auditor concludes that the planned nature, timing, or extent of substantive procedures covering the
remaining period need to be modified as a result of unexpected misstatements detected at an interim date, such
modification may include extending or repeating the procedures performed at the interim date at the period end.
Adequacy of Presentation and Disclosure (Ref: Para. 24)
A59. Evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements, including the related disclosures, relates to whether
the individual financial statements are presented in a manner that reflects the appropriate classification and description
of financial information, and the form, arrangement, and content of the financial statements and their appended
notes. This includes, for example, the terminology used, the amount of detail given, the classification of items in the
statements, and the bases of amounts set forth.
Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 25-27)
A60. An audit of financial statements is a cumulative and iterative process. As the auditor performs planned audit
procedures, the audit evidence obtained may cause the auditor to modify the nature, timing or extent of other
planned audit procedures. Information may come to the auditor’s attention that differs significantly from the
information on which the risk assessment was based. For example:
∗ The extent of misstatements that the auditor detects by performing substantive procedures may alter the
auditor’s judgment about the risk assessments and may indicate a significant deficiency in internal control.
∗ The auditor may become aware of discrepancies in accounting records, or conflicting or missing evidence.
∗ Analytical procedures performed at the overall review stage of the audit may indicate a previously unrecognized
risk of material misstatement.
In such circumstances, the auditor may need to reevaluate the planned audit procedures, based on the revised
consideration of assessed risks for all or some of the classes of transactions, account balances, or disclosures and
related assertions. SLAuS 315 contains further guidance on revising the auditor’s risk assessment.
7

<!-- page 229 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
229A
A61.   The auditor cannot assume that an instance of fraud or error is an isolated occurrence. Therefore, the consideration
of how the detection of a misstatement affects the assessed risks of material misstatement is important in determining
whether the assessment remains appropriate.
A62. The auditor’s judgment as to what constitutes sufficient appropriate audit evidence is influenced by such factors
as the following:
* Significance of the potential misstatement in the assertion and the likelihood of its having a material effect,
individually or aggregated with other potential misstatements, on the financial statements.
* Effectiveness of management’s responses and controls to address the risks.
* Experience gained during previous audits with respect to similar potential misstatements.
* Results of audit procedures performed, including whether such audit procedures identified specific instances
of fraud or error.
* Source and reliability of the available information.
* Persuasiveness of the audit evidence.
* Understanding of the entity and its environment, including the entity’s internal control.
Documentation (Ref: Para. 28)
A63. The form and extent of audit documentation is a matter of professional judgment, and is influenced by the nature,
size and complexity of the entity and its internal control, availability of information from the entity and the audit
methodology and technology used in the audit.
7   SLAuS 315, paragraph 31.

<!-- page 230 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
230A
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 402
AUDIT CONSIDERA TIONS RELATING TO AN ENTITY
USING A SERVICE ORGANIZATION
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................ 1-5
Effective Date  ...................................................................................... 6
Objectives ........................................................................................... 7
Definitions  ........................................................................................... 8
Requirements
Obtaining an Understanding of the Services Provided by a Service
Organization, Including Internal Control ...................................... 9-14
Responding to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement ............. 15-17
Type 1 and Type 2 Reports that Exclude the Services of a
Subservice Organization ............................................................... 18
Fraud, Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations and
Uncorrected Misstatements in Relation to Activities at the
Service Organization  ……............................................................. 19
Reporting by the User Auditor ............................................................. 20-22
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Obtaining an Understanding of the Services Provided by a Service
Organization, Including Internal Control ...................................... A1-A23
Responding to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement ............. A24-A39
Type 1 and Type 2 Reports that Exclude the Services of a
Subservice Organization  ............................................................... A40
Fraud, Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations and
Uncorrected  Misstatements in Relation to Activities at the
Service Organization ….…… …………………………………... A41
Reporting by the User Auditor............................................................ A42-A44
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 402, “Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity
Using a Service Organization” should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall
Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri
Lanka Auditing Standards.”

<!-- page 231 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
231A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the user auditor’s responsibility to obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence when a user entity uses the services of one or more service organizations. Specifically, it expands on
how the user auditor applies SLAuS 315
1 and SLAuS 3302 in obtaining an understanding of the user entity, including
internal control relevant to the audit, sufficient to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement and in
designing and performing further audit procedures responsive to those risks.
2. Many entities outsource aspects of their business to organizations that provide services ranging from performing a
specific task under the direction of an entity to replacing an entity’s entire business units or functions, such as the
tax compliance function. Many of the services provided by such organizations are integral to the entity’s business
operations; however, not all those services are relevant to the audit.
3. Services provided by a service organization are relevant to the audit of a user entity’s financial statements when
those services, and the controls over them, are part of the user entity’s information system, including related
business processes, relevant to financial reporting. Although most controls at the service organization are likely to
relate to financial reporting, there may be other controls that may also be relevant to the audit, such as controls over
the safeguarding of assets. A service organization’s services are part of a user entity’s information system, including
related business processes, relevant to financial reporting if these services affect any of the following:
(a) The classes of transactions in the user entity’s operations that are significant to the user entity’s financial
statements;
(b) The procedures, within both information technology (IT) and manual systems, by which the user entity’s
transactions are initiated, recorded, processed, corrected as necessary, transferred to the general ledger and
reported in the financial statements;
(c) The related accounting records, either in electronic or manual form, supporting information and specific accounts
in the user entity’s financial statements that are used to initiate, record, process and report the user entity’s
transactions; this includes the correction of incorrect information and how information is transferred to the
general ledger;
(d) How the user entity’s information system captures events and conditions, other than transactions, that are
significant to the financial statements;
(e) The financial reporting process used to prepare the user entity’s financial statements, including significant
accounting estimates and disclosures; and
(f) Controls surrounding journal entries, including non-standard journal entries used to record non-recurring,
unusual transactions or adjustments.
4. The nature and extent of work to be performed by the user auditor regarding the services provided by a service
organization depend on the nature and significance of those services to the user entity and the relevance of those
services to the audit.
5. This SLAuS does not apply to services provided by financial institutions that are limited to processing, for an
entity’s account held at the financial institution, transactions that are specifically authorized by the entity, such as
the processing of checking account transactions by a bank or the processing of securities transactions by a broker.
In addition, this SLAuS does not apply to the audit of transactions arising from proprietary financial interests in
other entities, such as partnerships, corporations and joint ventures, when proprietary interests are accounted for
and reported to interest holders.

<!-- page 232 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
232A
Effective Date
6. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
7. The objectives of the user auditor, when the user entity uses the services of a service organization, are:
(a) To obtain an understanding of the nature and significance of the services provided by the service organization
and their effect on the user entity’s internal control relevant to the audit, sufficient to identify and assess the
risks of material misstatement; and
(b) To design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks.
Definitions
8.  For purposes of the SLAuS, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Complementary user entity controls – Controls that the service organization assumes, in the design of its
service, will be implemented by user entities, and which, if necessary to achieve control objectives, are
identified in the description of its system.
(b) Report on the description and design of controls at a service organization (referred to in this SLAuS as a
type 1 report) – A report that comprises:
(i) A description, prepared by management of the service organization, of the service organization’s
system, control objectives and related controls that have been designed and implemented as at a
specified date; and
(ii) A report by the service auditor with the objective of conveying reasonable assurance that includes the
service auditor’s opinion on the description of the service organization’s system, control objectives
and related controls and the suitability of the design of the controls to achieve the specified control
objectives.
(c) Report on the description, design, and operating effectiveness of controls at a service organization
(referred to in this SLAuS as a type 2 report) – A report that comprises:
(i) A description, prepared by management of the service organization, of the service organization’s
system, control objectives and related controls, their design and implementation as at a specified date
or throughout a specified period and, in some cases, their operating effectiveness throughout a specified
period; and
(ii) A report by the service auditor with the objective of conveying reasonable assurance that includes:
a. The service auditor’s opinion on the description of the service organization’s system, control
objectives and related controls, the suitability of the design of the controls to achieve the
specified control objectives, and the operating effectiveness of the controls; and
b. A description of the service auditor’s tests of the controls and the results thereof.
(d) Service auditor – An auditor who, at the request of the service organization, provides an assurance report on
the controls of a service organization.

<!-- page 233 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
233A
(e)  Service organization – A third-party organization (or segment of a third-party organization) that provides
services to user entities that are part of those entities’ information systems relevant to financial reporting.
(f) Service organization’s system – The policies and procedures designed, implemented and maintained by
the service organization to provide user entities with the services covered by the service auditor’s report.
(g) Subservice organization – A service organization used by another service organization to perform some of
the services provided to user entities that are part of those user entities’ information systems relevant to
financial reporting.
(h) User auditor – An auditor who audits and reports on the financial statements of a user entity.
(i) User entity – An entity that uses a service organization and whose financial statements are being audited.
Requirements
Obtaining an Understanding of the Services Provided by a Service
Organization, Including Internal Control
9. When obtaining an understanding of the user entity in accordance with SLAuS 315,
3 the user auditor shall obtain an
understanding of how a user entity uses the services of a service organization in the user entity’s operations,
including: (Ref: Para. A1-A2)
(a) The nature of the services provided by the service organization and the significance of those services to
the user entity, including the effect thereof on the user entity’s internal control; (Ref: Para. A3-A5)
(b) The nature and materiality of the transactions processed or accounts or financial reporting processes affected
by the service organization; (Ref: Para. A6)
(c) The degree of interaction between the activities of the service organization and those of the user entity;
and (Ref: Para. A7)
(d) The nature of the relationship between the user entity and the service organization, including the relevant
contractual terms for the activities undertaken by the service organization. (Ref: Para. A8-A11)
10. When obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in accordance with SLAuS 315, 4 the user
auditor shall evaluate the design and implementation of relevant controls at the user entity that relate to the services
provided by the service organization, including those that are applied to the transactions processed by the service
organization. (Ref: Para. A12-A14)
11. The user auditor shall determine whether a sufficient understanding of the nature and significance of the services
provided by the service organization and their effect on the user entity’s internal control relevant to the audit has
been obtained to provide a basis for the identification and assessment of risks of material misstatement.
12. If the user auditor is unable to obtain a sufficient understanding from the user entity, the user auditor shall obtain
that understanding from one or more of the following procedures:
(a) Obtaining a type 1 or type 2 report, if available;
(b) Contacting the service organization, through the user entity, to obtain specific information;
3   SLAuS 315, paragraph 11.
4   SLAuS 315, paragraph 12.

<!-- page 234 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
234A
(c) Visiting the service organization and performing procedures that will provide the necessary information
about the relevant controls at the service organization; or
(d) Using another auditor to perform procedures that will provide the necessary information about the relevant
controls at the service organization. (Ref: Para. A15-A20)
Using a Type 1 or Type 2 Report to Support the User Auditor’s Understanding of the Service Organization
13. In determining the sufficiency and appropriateness of the audit evidence provided by a type 1 or type 2 report, the
user auditor shall be satisfied as to:
(a) The service auditor’s professional competence and independence from the service organization; and
(b) The adequacy of the standards under which the type 1 or type 2 report was issued. (Ref: Para. A 21)
14. If the user auditor plans to use a type 1 or type 2 report as audit evidence to support the user auditor’s understanding
about the design and implementation of controls at the service organization, the user auditor shall:
(a ) Evaluate whether the description and design of controls at the service organization is at a date or for a period
that is appropriate for the user auditor’s purposes;
(b) Evaluate the sufficiency and appropriateness of the evidence provided by the report for the understanding of
the user entity’s internal control relevant to the audit; and
(c) Determine whether complementary user entity controls identified by the service organization are relevant to
the user entity and, if so, obtain an understanding of whether the user entity has designed and implemented
such controls. (Ref: Para. A22-A23)
Responding to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement
15. In responding to assessed risks in accordance with SLAuS 330, the user auditor shall:
(a) Determine whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence concerning the relevant financial statement assertions
is available from records held at the user entity; and, if not,
(b) Perform further audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence or use another auditor to
perform those procedures at the service organization on the user auditor’s behalf. (Ref: Para. A24-A28)
Tests of Controls
16. When the user auditor’s risk assessment includes an expectation that controls at the service organization are operating
effectively, the user auditor shall obtain audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of those controls from one
or more of the following procedures:
(a) Obtaining a type 2 report, if available;
(b) Performing appropriate tests of controls at the service organization; or
(c) Using another auditor to perform tests of controls at the service organization on behalf of the user auditor.
(Ref: Para. A29-A30)
Using a Type 2 Report as Audit Evidence that Controls at the Service Organization Are Operating Effectively

<!-- page 235 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
235A
17. If, in accordance with paragraph 16(a), the user auditor plans to use a type 2 report as audit evidence that controls at
the service organization are operating effectively, the user auditor shall determine whether the service auditor’s report
provides sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the effectiveness of the controls to support the user auditor’s
risk assessment by:
(a) Evaluating whether the description, design and operating effectiveness of controls at the service organization
is at a date or for a period that is appropriate for the user auditor’s purposes;
(b) Determining whether complementary user entity controls identified by the service organization are relevant to
the user entity and, if so, obtaining an understanding of whether the user entity has designed and implemented
such controls and, if so, testing their operating effectiveness;
(c) Evaluating the adequacy of the time period covered by the tests of controls and the time elapsed since the
performance of the tests of controls; and
(d) Evaluating whether the tests of controls performed by the service auditor and the results thereof, as described
in the service auditor’s report, are relevant to the assertions in the user entity’s financial statements and provide
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support the user auditor’s risk assessment. (Ref: Para. A31-A39)
Type 1 and Type 2 Reports that Exclude the Services of a Subservice Organization
18. If the user auditor plans to use a type 1 or a type 2 report that excludes the services provided by a subservice
organization and those services are relevant to the audit of the user entity’s financial statements, the user auditor
shall apply the requirements of this SLAuS with respect to the services provided by the subservice organization.
(Ref: Para. A40)
Fraud, Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations and Uncorrected Misstatements in Relation to Activities at the
Service Organization
19. The user auditor shall inquire of management of the user entity whether the service organization has reported to the
user entity, or whether the user entity is otherwise aware of, any fraud, non-compliance with laws and regulations or
uncorrected misstatements affecting the financial statements of the user entity. The user auditor shall evaluate how
such matters affect the nature, timing and extent of the user auditor’s further audit procedures, including the effect on
the user auditor’s conclusions and user auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A41)
Reporting by the User Auditor
20. The user auditor shall modify the opinion in the user auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705
5 if the user
auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the services provided by the service
organization relevant to the audit of the user entity’s financial statements. (Ref: Para. A42)
21. The user auditor shall not refer to the work of a service auditor in the user auditor’s report containing an unmodified
opinion unless required by law or regulation to do so. If such reference is required by law or regulation, the user
auditor’s report shall indicate that the reference does not diminish the user auditor’s responsibility for the audit
opinion. (Ref: Para. A43)
22. If reference to the work of a service auditor is relevant to an understanding of a modification to the user auditor’s
opinion, the user auditor’s report shall indicate that such reference does not diminish the user auditor’s responsibility
for that opinion. (Ref: Para. A44)
***
5  SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report,” paragraph 6.

<!-- page 236 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
236A
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Obtaining an Understanding of the Services Provided by a Service Organization, Including Internal Control
Sources of Information (Ref: Para. 9)
A1. Information on the nature of the services provided by a service organization may be available from a wide
variety of sources, such as:
* User manuals.
* System overviews.
* Technical manuals.
* The contract or service level agreement between the user entity and the service organization.
* Reports by service organizations, internal auditors or regulatory authorities on controls at the service
organization.
* Reports by the service auditor, including management letters, if available.
A2. Knowledge obtained through the user auditor’s experience with the service organization, for example through
experience with other audit engagements, may also be helpful in obtaining an understanding of the nature of
the services provided by the service organization. This may be particularly helpful if the services and controls
at the service organization over those services are highly standardized.
Nature of the Services Provided by the Service Organization (Ref: Para. 9(a))
A3. A user entity may use a service organization such as one that processes transactions and maintains related
accountability, or records transactions and processes related data. Service organizations that provide such
services include, for example, bank trust departments that invest and service assets for employee benefit
plans or for others; mortgage bankers that service mortgages for others; and application service providers
that provide packaged software applications and a technology environment that enables customers to process
financial and operational transactions.
A4. Examples of service organization services that are relevant to the audit include:
∗ Maintenance of the user entity’s accounting records.
∗ Management of assets.
∗ Initiating, recording or processing transactions as agent of the user entity.
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
6  SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraphs 4 and A2-A3.

<!-- page 237 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
237A
A5. Smaller entities may use external bookkeeping services ranging from the processing of certain transactions (for
example, payment of payroll taxes) and maintenance of their accounting records to the preparation of their financial
statements. The use of such a service organization for the preparation of its financial statements does not relieve
management of the smaller entity and, where appropriate, those charged with governance of their responsibilities for
the financial statements.
6
Nature and Materiality of Transactions Processed by the Service Organization (Ref: Para. 9(b))
A6. A service organization may establish policies and procedures that affect the user entity’s internal control. These
policies and procedures are at least in part physically and operationally separate from the user entity. The significance
of the controls of the service organization to those of the user entity depends on the nature of the services provided
by the service organization, including the nature and materiality of the transactions it processes for the user entity. In
certain situations, the transactions processed and the accounts affected by the service organization may not appear
to be material to the user entity’s financial statements, but the nature of the transactions processed may be significant
and the user auditor may determine that an understanding of those controls is necessary in the circumstances.
The Degree of Interaction between the Activities of the Service Organization and the User Entity (Ref: Para. 9(c))
A7. The significance of the controls of the service organization to those of the user entity also depends on the degree
of interaction between its activities and those of the user entity. The degree of interaction refers to the extent to
which a user entity is able to and elects to implement effective controls over the processing performed by the
service organization. For example, a high degree of interaction exists between the activities of the user entity and
those at the service organization when the user entity authorizes transactions and the service organization
processes and does the accounting for those transactions. In these circumstances, it may be practicable for the
user entity to implement effective controls over those transactions. On the other hand, when the service
organization initiates or initially records, processes, and does the accounting for the user entity’s transactions,
there is a lower degree of interaction between the two organizations. In these circumstances, the user entity may
be unable to, or may elect not to, implement effective controls over these transactions at the user entity and may
rely on controls at the service organization.
Nature of the Relationship between the User Entity and the Service Organization (Ref: Para. 9(d))
A8. The contract or service level agreement between the user entity and the service organization may provide for
matters such as:
* The information to be provided to the user entity and responsibilities for initiating transactions relating to the
activities undertaken by the service organization;
* The application of requirements of regulatory bodies concerning the form of records to be maintained, or access
to them;
* The indemnification, if any, to be provided to the user entity in the event of a performance failure;
* Whether the service organization will provide a report on its controls and, if so, whether such report would be
a type 1 or type 2 report;
* Whether the user auditor has rights of access to the accounting records of the user entity maintained by the
service organization and other information necessary for the conduct of the audit; and
* Whether the agreement allows for direct communication between the user auditor and the service auditor.

<!-- page 238 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
238A
A9. There is a direct relationship between the service organization and the user entity and between the service organization
and the service auditor. These relationships do not necessarily create a direct relationship between the user auditor
and the service auditor. When there is no direct relationship between the user auditor and the service auditor,
communications between the user auditor and the service auditor are usually conducted through the user entity and
the service organization. A direct relationship may also be created between a user auditor and a service auditor,
taking into account the relevant ethical and confidentiality considerations. A user auditor, for example, may use a
service auditor to perform procedures on the user auditor’s behalf, such as:
(a) Tests of controls at the service organization; or
(b) Substantive procedures on the user entity’s financial statement transactions and balances maintained by a
service organization.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A10. Public sector auditors generally have broad rights of access established by legislation. However, there may be
situations where such rights of access are not available, for example when the service organization is located in a
different jurisdiction. In such cases, a public sector auditor may need to obtain an understanding of the legislation
applicable in the different jurisdiction to determine whether appropriate access rights can be obtained. A public
sector auditor may also obtain or ask the user entity to incorporate rights of access in any contractual arrangements
between the user entity and the service organization.
A11. Public sector auditors may also use another auditor to perform tests of controls or substantive procedures in
relation to compliance with law, regulation or other authority.
Understanding the Controls Relating to Services Provided by the Service Organization (Ref: Para. 10)
A12. The user entity may establish controls over the service organization’s services that may be tested by the user
auditor and that may enable the user auditor to conclude that the user entity’s controls are operating effectively for
some or all of the related assertions, regardless of the controls in place at the service organization. If a user entity,
for example, uses a service organization to process its payroll transactions, the user entity may establish controls
over the submission and receipt of payroll information that could prevent or detect material misstatements. These
controls may include:
* Comparing the data submitted to the service organization with reports of information received from the
service organization after the data has been processed.
* Recomputing a sample of the payroll amounts for clerical accuracy and reviewing the total amount of the
payroll for reasonableness.
A13. In this situation, the user auditor may perform tests of the user entity’s controls over payroll processing that would
provide a basis for the user auditor to conclude that the user entity’s controls are operating effectively for the
assertions related to payroll transactions.
A14. As noted in SLAuS 315,
7 in respect of some risks, the user auditor may judge that it is not possible or practicable to
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence only from substantive procedures. Such risks may relate to the inaccurate
or incomplete recording of routine and significant classes of transactions and account balances, the characteristics
of which often permit highly automated processing with little or no manual intervention. Such automated processing
characteristics may be particularly present when the user entity uses service organizations. In such cases, the user
entity’s controls over such risks are relevant to the audit and the user auditor is required to obtain an understanding
of, and to evaluate, such controls in accordance with paragraphs 9 and 10 of this SLAuS.
Further Procedures When a Sufficient Understanding Cannot Be Obtained from the User Entity (Ref: Para. 12)
7   SLAuS 315, paragraph 30.

<!-- page 239 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
239A
A15.The user auditor’s decision as to which procedure, individually or in combination, in paragraph 12 to undertake, in
order to obtain the information necessary to provide a basis for the identification and assessment of the risks of
material misstatement in relation to the user entity’s use of the service organization, may be influenced by such
matters as:
∗ The size of both the user entity and the service organization;
∗ The complexity of the transactions at the user entity and the complexity of the services provided by the service
organization;
∗ The location of the service organization (for example, the user auditor may decide to use another auditor to
perform procedures at the service organization on the user auditor’s behalf if the service organization is in a
remote location);
∗ Whether the procedure(s) is expected to effectively provide the user auditor with sufficient appropriate audit
evidence; and
∗ The nature of the relationship between the user entity and the service organization.
A16. A service organization may engage a service auditor to report on the description and design of its controls (type 1
report) or on the description and design of its controls and their operating effectiveness (type 2 report). Type 1 or
type 2 reports may be issued under [proposed] Sri Lanka Standard on Assurance Engagements (SLSAE) 3402
8 or
under standards established by an authorized or recognized standards setting organization (which may identify
them by different names, such as Type A or Type B reports).
A17. The availability of a type 1 or type 2 report will generally depend on whether the contract between a service
organization and a user entity includes the provision of such a report by the service organization. A service
organization may also elect, for practical reasons, to make a type 1 or type 2 report available to the user entities.
However, in some cases, a type 1 or type 2 report may not be available to user entities.
A18. In some circumstances, a user entity may outsource one or more significant business units or functions, such as its
entire tax planning and compliance functions, or finance and accounting or the controllership function to one or
more service organizations. As a report on controls at the service organization may not be available in these
circumstances, visiting the service organization may be the most effective procedure for the user auditor to gain an
understanding of controls at the service organization, as there is likely to be direct interaction of management of the
user entity with management at the service organization.
A19. Another auditor may be used to perform procedures that will provide the necessary information about the relevant
controls at the service organization. If a type 1 or type 2 report has been issued, the user auditor may use the service
auditor to perform these procedures as the service auditor has an existing relationship with the service organization.
The user auditor using the work of another auditor may find the guidance in SLAuS 600
9 useful as it relates to
understanding another auditor (including that auditor’s independence and professional competence), involvement
in the work of another auditor in planning the nature, extent and timing of such work, and in evaluating the
sufficiency and appropriateness of the audit evidence obtained.
8 SLSAE 3402, “Assurance Reports on Controls at a Third Party Service Organization.”
9  SLAuS 600, “Special Considerations —Audits of Group Financial Statements” (Including the Work of Component Auditors), paragra ph
2, states: “An auditor may find this SLAuS, adapted as necessary in the circumstances, useful when that auditor involves other
auditors in the audit of financial statements that are not group financial statements …” See also paragraph 19 of SLAuS 600.

<!-- page 240 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
240A
A20. A user entity may use a service organization that in turn uses a subservice organization to provide some of the
services provided to a user entity that are part of the user entity’s information system relevant to financial reporting.
The subservice organization may be a separate entity from the service organization or may be related to the service
organization. A user auditor may need to consider controls at the subservice organization. In situations where one
or more subservice organizations are used, the interaction between the activities of the user entity and those of the
service organization is expanded to include the interaction between the user entity, the service organization and the
subservice organizations. The degree of this interaction, as well as the nature and materiality of the transactions
processed by the service organization and the subservice organizations are the most important factors for the user
auditor to consider in determining the significance of the service organization’s and subservice organization’s
controls to the user entity’s controls.
Using a Type 1 or Type 2 Report to Support the User Auditor’s Understanding of the Service Organization (Ref: Para. 13-
14)
A21. The user auditor may make inquiries about the service auditor to the service auditor’s professional organization or
other practitioners and inquire whether the service auditor is subject to regulatory oversight. The service auditor
may be practicing in a jurisdiction where different standards are followed in respect of reports on controls at a
service organization, and the user auditor may obtain information about the standards used by the service auditor
from the standard setting organization.
A22. A type 1 or type 2 report, along with information about the user entity, may assist the user auditor in obtaining an
understanding of:
(a) The aspects of controls at the service organization that may affect the processing of the user entity’s
transactions, including the use of subservice organizations;
(b) The flow of significant transactions through the service organization to determine the points in the transaction
flow where material misstatements in the user entity’s financial statements could occur;
(c) The control objectives at the service organization that are relevant to the user entity’s financial statement
assertions; and
(d) Whether controls at the service organization are suitably designed and implemented to prevent or detect
processing errors that could result in material misstatements in the user entity’s financial statements.
A type 1 or type 2 report may assist the user auditor in obtaining a sufficient understanding to identify and assess the risks
of material misstatement. A type 1 report, however, does not provide any evidence of the operating effectiveness of
the relevant controls.
A23. A type 1 or type 2 report that is as of a date or for a period that is outside of the reporting period of a user entity may
assist the user auditor in obtaining a preliminary understanding of the controls implemented at the service organization
if the report is supplemented by additional current information from other sources. If the service organization’s
description of controls is as of a date or for a period that precedes the beginning of the period under audit, the user
auditor may perform procedures to update the information in a type 1 or type 2 report, such as:
∗ Discussing the changes at the service organization with user entity personnel who would be in a position to
know of such changes;
∗ Reviewing current documentation and correspondence issued by the service organization; or
∗ Discussing the changes with service organization personnel.
Responding to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement (Ref: Para. 15)

<!-- page 241 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
241A
A24. Whether the use of a service organization increases a user entity’s risk of material misstatement depends on the
nature of the services provided and the controls over these services; in some cases, the use of a service organization
may decrease a user entity’s risk of material misstatement, particularly if the user entity itself does not possess the
expertise necessary to undertake particular activities, such as initiating, processing, and recording transactions, or
does not have adequate resources (for example, an IT system).
A25. When the service organization maintains material elements of the accounting records of the user entity, direct
access to those records may be necessary in order for the user auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence relating to the operations of controls over those records or to substantiate transactions and balances
recorded in them, or both. Such access may involve either physical inspection of records at the service organization’s
premises or interrogation of records maintained electronically from the user entity or another location, or both.
Where direct access is achieved electronically, the user auditor may thereby obtain evidence as to the adequacy of
controls operated by the service organization over the completeness and integrity of the user entity’s data for
which the service organization is responsible.
A26. In determining the nature and extent of audit evidence to be obtained in relation to balances representing assets
held or transactions undertaken by a service organization on behalf of the user entity, the following procedures
may be considered by the user auditor:
(a) Inspecting records and documents held by the user entity: the reliability of this source of evidence is
determined by the nature and extent of the accounting records and supporting documentation retained by
the user entity. In some cases, the user entity may not maintain independent detailed records or documentation
of specific transactions undertaken on its behalf.
(b) Inspecting records and documents held by the service organization: the user auditor’s access to the records
of the service organization may be established as part of the contractual arrangements between the user
entity and the service organization. The user auditor may also use another auditor, on its behalf, to gain
access to the user entity’s records maintained by the service organization.
(c) Obtaining confirmations of balances and transactions from the service organization: where the user entity
maintains independent records of balances and transactions, confirmation from the service organization
corroborating the user entity’s records may constitute reliable audit evidence concerning the existence of the
transactions and assets concerned. For example, when multiple service organizations are used, such as an
investment manager and a custodian, and these service organizations maintain independent records, the
user auditor may confirm balances with these organizations in order to compare this information with the
independent records of the user entity.
If the user entity does not maintain independent records, information obtained in confirmations from the
service organization is merely a statement of what is reflected in the records maintained by the service
organization. Therefore, such confirmations do not, taken alone, constitute reliable audit evidence. In these
circumstances, the user auditor may consider whether an alternative source of independent evidence can be
identified.
(d) Performing analytical procedures on the records maintained by the user entity or on the reports received
from the service organization: the effectiveness of analytical procedures is likely to vary by assertion and will
be affected by the extent and detail of information available.
A27. Another auditor may perform procedures that are substantive in nature for the benefit of user auditors. Such an
engagement may involve the performance, by another auditor, of procedures agreed upon by the user entity and its
user auditor and by the service organization and its service auditor. The findings resulting from the procedures
performed by another auditor are reviewed by the user auditor to determine whether they constitute sufficient
appropriate audit evidence. In addition, there may be requirements imposed by governmental authorities or through
contractual arrangements whereby a service auditor performs designated procedures that are substantive in nature.
The results of the application of the required procedures to balances and transactions processed by the service
organization may be used by user auditors as part of the evidence necessary to support their audit opinions. In these
circumstances, it may be useful for the user auditor and the service auditor to agree, prior to the performance of the
procedures, to the audit documentation or access to audit documentation that will be provided to the user auditor.

<!-- page 242 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
242A
A28. In certain circumstances, in particular when a user entity outsources some or all of its finance function to a service
organization, the user auditor may face a situation where a significant portion of the audit evidence resides at the
service organization. Substantive procedures may need to be performed at the service organization by the user
auditor or another auditor on its behalf. A service auditor may provide a type 2 report and, in addition, may perform
substantive procedures on behalf of the user auditor. The involvement of another auditor does not alter the user
auditor’s responsibility to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to afford a reasonable basis to support the
user auditor’s opinion. Accordingly, the user auditor’s consideration of whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence
has been obtained and whether the user auditor needs to perform further substantive procedures includes the user
auditor’s involvement with, or evidence of, the direction, supervision and performance of the substantive procedures
performed by another auditor.
Tests of Controls (Ref: Para. 16)
A29. The user auditor is required by SLAuS 330
10 to design and perform tests of controls to obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence as to the operating effectiveness of relevant controls in certain circumstances. In the context of a
service organization, this requirement applies when:
(a) The user auditor’s assessment of risks of material misstatement includes an expectation that the controls at
the service organization are operating effectively (that is, the user auditor intends to rely on the operating
effectiveness of controls at the service organization in determining the nature, timing and extent of substantive
procedures); or
(b) Substantive procedures alone, or in combination with tests of the operating effectiveness of controls at the
user entity, cannot provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence at the assertion level.
A30. If a type 2 report is not available, a user auditor may contact the service organization, through the user entity, to
request that a service auditor be engaged to provide a type 2 report that includes tests of the operating effectiveness
of the relevant controls or the user auditor may use another auditor to perform procedures at the service organization
that test the operating effectiveness of those controls. A user auditor may also visit the service organization and
perform tests of relevant controls if the service organization agrees to it. The user auditor’s risk assessments are
based on the combined evidence provided by the work of another auditor and the user auditor’s own procedures.
Using a Type 2 Report as Audit Evidence that Controls at the Service Organization Are Operating Effectively (Ref: Para. 17)
A31. A type 2 report may be intended to satisfy the needs of several different user auditors; therefore tests of controls
and results described in the service auditor’s report may not be relevant to assertions that are significant in the user
entity’s financial statements. The relevant tests of controls and results are evaluated to determine that the service
auditor’s report provides sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the effectiveness of the controls to support the
user auditor’s risk assessment. In doing so, the user auditor may consider the following factors:
(a) The time period covered by the tests of controls and the time elapsed since the performance of the tests of
controls;
10  SLAuS 330, paragraph 8.

<!-- page 243 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
243A
(b) The scope of the service auditor’s work and the services and processes covered, the controls tested and tests
that were performed, and the way in which tested controls relate to the user entity’s controls; and
(c) The results of those tests of controls and the service auditor’s opinion on the operating effectiveness of the
controls.
A32. For certain assertions, the shorter the period covered by a specific test and the longer the time elapsed since the
performance of the test, the less audit evidence the test may provide. In comparing the period covered by the type
2 report to the user entity’s financial reporting period, the user auditor may conclude that the type 2 report offers less
audit evidence if there is little overlap between the period covered by the type 2 report and the period for which the
user auditor intends to rely on the report. When this is the case, a type 2 report covering a preceding or subsequent
period may provide additional audit evidence. In other cases, the user auditor may determine it is necessary to
perform, or use another auditor to perform, tests of controls at the service organization in order to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of those controls.
A33. It may also be necessary for the user auditor to obtain additional evidence about significant changes to the relevant
controls at the service organization outside of the period covered by the type 2 report or determine additional audit
procedures to be performed. Relevant factors in determining what additional audit evidence to obtain about controls
at the service organization that were operating outside of the period covered by the service auditor’s report may
include:
∗          The significance of the assessed risks of material misstatement at the assertion level;
∗ The specific controls that were tested during the interim period, and significant changes to them since they
were tested, including changes in the information system, processes, and personnel;
∗ The degree to which audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of those controls was obtained;
∗ The length of the remaining period;
∗ The extent to which the user auditor intends to reduce further substantive procedures based on the reliance
on controls; and
∗ The effectiveness of the control environment and monitoring of controls at the user entity.
A34. Additional audit evidence may be obtained, for example, by extending tests of controls over the remaining period or
testing the user entity’s monitoring of controls.
A35. If the service auditor’s testing period is completely outside the user entity’s financial reporting period, the user
auditor will be unable to rely on such tests for the user auditor to conclude that the user entity’s controls are
operating effectively because they do not provide current audit period evidence of the effectiveness of the controls,
unless other procedures are performed.
A36. In certain circumstances, a service provided by the service organization may be designed with the assumption that
certain controls will be implemented by the user entity. For example, the service may be designed with the assumption
that the user entity will have controls in place for authorizing transactions before they are sent to the service
organization for processing. In such a situation, the service organization’s description of controls may include a
description of those complementary user entity controls. The user auditor considers whether those complementary
user entity controls are relevant to the service provided to the user entity.

<!-- page 244 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
244A
A37. If the user auditor believes that the service auditor’s report may not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence,
for example, if a service auditor’s report does not contain a description of the service auditor’s tests of controls and
results thereon, the user auditor may supplement the understanding of the service auditor’s procedures and
conclusions by contacting the service organization, through the user entity, to request a discussion with the service
auditor about the scope and results of the service auditor’s work. Also, if the user auditor believes it is necessary, the
user auditor may contact the service organization, through the user entity, to request that the service auditor perform
procedures at the service organization. Alternatively, the user auditor, or another auditor at the request of the user
auditor, may perform such procedures.
A38. The service auditor’s type 2 report identifies results of tests, including exceptions and other information that could
affect the user auditor’s conclusions. Exceptions noted by the service auditor or a modified opinion in the service
auditor’s type 2 report do not automatically mean that the service auditor’s type 2 report will not be useful for the
audit of the user entity’s financial statements in assessing the risks of material misstatement. Rather, the exceptions
and the matter giving rise to a modified opinion in the service auditor’s type 2 report are considered in the user
auditor’s assessment of the testing of controls performed by the service auditor. In considering the exceptions and
matters giving rise to a modified opinion, the user auditor may discuss such matters with the service auditor. Such
communication is dependent upon the user entity contacting the service organization, and obtaining the service
organization’s approval for the communication to take place.
Communication of deficiencies in internal control identified during the audit
A39. The user auditor is required to communicate in writing significant deficiencies identified during the audit to both
management and those charged with governance on a timely basis.
11 The user auditor is also required to communicate
to management at an appropriate level of responsibility on a timely basis other deficiencies in internal control
identified during the audit that, in the user auditor’s professional judgment, are of sufficient importance to merit
management’s attention.
12 Matters that the user auditor may identify during the audit and may communicate to
management and those charged with governance of the user entity include:
∗ Any monitoring of controls that could be implemented by the user entity, including those identified as a result
of obtaining a type 1 or type 2 report;
∗ Instances where complementary user entity controls are noted in the type 1 or type 2 report and are not
implemented at the user entity; and
∗ Controls that may be needed at the service organization that do not appear to have been implemented or that
are not specifically covered by a type 2 report.
Type 1 and Type 2 Reports that Exclude the Services of a Subservice Organization (Ref: Para. 18)
A40. If a service organization uses a subservice organization, the service auditor’s report may either include or exclude
the subservice organization’s relevant control objectives and related controls in the service organization’s description
of its system and in the scope of the service auditor’s engagement. These two methods of reporting are known as the
inclusive method and the carve-out method, respectively. If the type 1 or type 2 report excludes the controls at a
subservice organization, and the services provided by the subservice organization are relevant to the audit of the
user entity’s financial statements, the user auditor is required to apply the requirements of this SLAuS in respect of
the subservice organization. The nature and extent of work to be performed by the user auditor regarding the
services provided by a subservice organization depend on the nature and significance of those services to the user
entity and the relevance of those services to the audit.  The application of the requirement in paragraph 9 assists the
user auditor in determining the effect of the subservice organization and the nature and extent of work to be
performed.
11 SLAuS 265, “Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and Management,” paragraphs 9-
10.
12 SLAuS 265, paragraph 10.

<!-- page 245 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
245A
Fraud, Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations and Uncorrected
Misstatements in Relation to Activities at the Service Organization
(Ref: Para. 19)
A41. A service organization may be required under the terms of the contract with user entities to disclose to affected user
entities any fraud, non-compliance with laws and regulations or uncorrected misstatements attributable to the
service organization’s management or employees. As required by paragraph 19, the user auditor makes inquiries of
the user entity management regarding whether the service organization has reported any such matters and evaluates
whether any matters reported by the service organization affect the nature, timing and extent of the user auditor’s
further audit procedures. In certain circumstances, the user auditor may require additional information to perform
this evaluation, and may request the user entity to contact the service organization to obtain the necessary information.
Reporting by the User Auditor (Ref: Para. 20)
A42. When a user auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the services provided by the
service organization relevant to the audit of the user entity’s financial statements, a limitation on the scope of the
audit exists. This may be the case when:
∗ The user auditor is unable to obtain a sufficient understanding of the services provided by the service
organization and does not have a basis for the identification and assessment of the risks of material
misstatement;
∗ A user auditor’s risk assessment includes an expectation that controls at the service organization are operating
effectively and the user auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the operating
effectiveness of these controls; or
∗ Sufficient appropriate audit evidence is only available from records held at the service organization, and the
user auditor is unable to obtain direct access to these records.
Whether the user auditor expresses a qualified opinion or disclaims an opinion depends on the user auditor’s
conclusion as to whether the possible effects on the financial statements are material or pervasive.
Reference to the Work of a Service Auditor (Ref: Para. 21-22)
A43. In some cases, law or regulation may require a reference to the work of a service auditor in the user auditor’s
report, for example, for the purposes of transparency in the public sector. In such circumstances, the user auditor
may need the consent of the service auditor before making such a reference.
A44. The fact that a user entity uses a service organization does not alter the user auditor’s responsibility under
SLAuSs to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to afford a reasonable basis to support the user auditor’s
opinion. Therefore, the user auditor does not make reference to the service auditor’s report as a basis, in part, for
the user auditor’s opinion on the user entity’s financial statements. However, when the user auditor expresses a
modified opinion because of a modified opinion in a service auditor’s report, the user auditor is not precluded from
referring to the service auditor’s report if such reference assists in explaining the reason for the user auditor’s
modified opinion. In such circumstances, the user auditor may need the consent of the service auditor before
making such a reference.

<!-- page 246 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
246A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  450
Evaluation of Misstatements Identified During the Audit
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS .................................................................. 1
EffectiveDate .................................................................................... 2
Objective .................................................................................... 3
Definitions .............................................................................. 4
Requirements
Accumulation of Identified Misstatements ............................ 5
Consideration of Identified Misstatements as the Audit Progresses ..... 6 – 7
Communication and Correction of Misstatements .............................. 8 – 9
Evaluating the Effect of Uncorrected Misstatements ........................... 10 – 13
Written Representation ........................................................................ 14
Documentation ..................................................................................... 15
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Definition of Misstatement .................................................................. A1
Accumulation of Identified Misstatements .........................................  A2 - A3
Consideration of Identified Misstatements as the  Audit
Progresses ………… A4 - A6
Communication and Correction of Misstatements.............................. A7- A10
Evaluating the Effect of Uncorrected Misstatements ......................... A11 - A23
Written Representation ........................................................................ A24
Documentation  ..................................................................................... A25
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the
Audit” should be read in the context of SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent
Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to evaluate the effect of identified
misstatements on the audit and of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements. SLAuS 700 deals
with the auditor’s responsibility, in forming an opinion on the financial statements, to conclude whether reasonable
assurance has been obtained about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement.
The auditor’s conclusion required by SLAuS 700 takes into account the auditor’s evaluation of uncorrected
misstatements, if any, on the financial statements, in accordance with this SLAuS.
1 SLAuS 320 2 deals with the
auditor’s responsibility to apply the concept of materiality appropriately in planning and performing an audit of
financial statements.
1 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements,” paragraphs 10-11.
2 SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit.”

<!-- page 247 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
247A
Effective Date
2. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
3. The objective of the auditor is to evaluate :
(a) The effect of identified misstatements on the audit ; and
(b) The effect of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements.
Definitions
4. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below :
(a) Misstatement – A difference between the amount, classification, presentation, or disclosure of a reported
financial statement item and the amount, classification, presentation, or disclosure that is required for the item
to be in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. Misstatements can arise from error or
fraud ; (Ref: Para. A1)
When the auditor expresses an opinion on whether the financial statements are presented fairly, in all material
respects, or give a true and fair view, misstatements also include those adjustments of amounts, classifications,
presentation, or disclosures that, in the auditor’s judgment, are necessary for the financial statements to be
presented fairly, in all material respects, or to give a true and fair view.
(b) Uncorrected misstatements – Misstatements that the auditor has accumulated during the audit and that have
not been corrected.
Requirements
Accumulation of Identified Misstatements
5. The auditor shall accumulate misstatements identified during the audit, other than those that are clearly trivial. (Ref:
Para. A2-A3)
Consideration of Identified Misstatements as the Audit Progresses
6. The auditor shall determine whether the overall audit strategy and audit plan need to be revised if :
(a) The nature of identified misstatements and the circumstances of their occurrence indicate that other
misstatements may exist that, when aggregated with misstatements accumulated during the audit, could be
material ; or (Ref: Para. A4)
(b) The aggregate of misstatements accumulated during the audit approaches materiality determined in accordance
with SLAuS 320. (Ref: Para. A5)
7. If, at the auditor’s request, management has examined a class of transactions, account balance or disclosure and
corrected misstatements that were detected, the auditor shall perform additional audit procedures to determine
whether misstatements remain. (Ref: Para. A6)

<!-- page 248 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
248A
Communication and Correction of Misstatements
8. The auditor shall communicate on a timely basis all misstatements accumulated during the audit with the appropriate
level of management, unless prohibited by law or regulation.3 The auditor shall request management to correct those
misstatements. (Ref: Para. A7-A9)
9. If management refuses to correct some or all of the misstatements communicated by the auditor, the auditor shall
obtain an understanding of management’s reasons for not making the corrections and shall take that understanding
into account when evaluating whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. (Ref:
Para. A10)
AUDITING
Evaluating the Effect of Uncorrected Misstatements
10. Prior to evaluating the effect of uncorrected misstatements, the auditor shall reassess materiality determined in
accordance with SLAuS 320 to confirm whether it remains appropriate in the context of the entity’s actual financial
results. (Ref: Para. A11-A12)
11. The auditor shall determine whether uncorrected misstatements are material, individually or in aggregate. In making
this determination, the auditor shall consider:
(a) The size and nature of the misstatements, both in relation to particular classes of transactions, account balances
or disclosures and the financial statements as a whole, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence;
and (Ref: Para. A13-A17, A19-A20)
(b) The effect of uncorrected misstatements related to prior periods on the relevant classes of transactions,
account balances or disclosures, and the financial statements as a whole. (Ref: Para. A18)
Communication with Those Charged with Governance
12. The auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance uncorrected misstatements and the effect that
they, individually or in aggregate, may have on the opinion in the auditor’s report, unless prohibited by law or
regulation.
4 The auditor’s communication shall identify material uncorrected misstatements individually. The auditor
shall request that uncorrected misstatements be corrected. (Ref: Para. A21-A23)
13. The auditor shall also communicate with those charged with governance the effect of uncorrected misstatements
related to prior periods on the relevant classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures, and the financial
statements as a whole.
Written Representation
14. The auditor shall request a written representation from management and, where appropriate, those charged with
governance whether they believe the effects of uncorrected misstatements are immaterial, individually and in aggregate,
to the financial statements as a whole. A summary of such items shall be included in or attached to the written
representation. (Ref: Para. A24)
3  SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 7.
4  See footnote 3.

<!-- page 249 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
249A
Documentation
15. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation: 5 (Ref: Para. A25)
(a) The amount below which misstatements would be regarded as clearly trivial (paragraph 5);
(b) All misstatements accumulated during the audit and whether they have been corrected (paragraphs 5, 8 and
12); and
(c) The auditor’s conclusion as to whether uncorrected misstatements are material, individually or in aggregate,
and the basis for that conclusion (paragraph 11).
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Definition of Misstatement (Ref: Para. 4(a))
A1. Misstatements may result from:
(a) An inaccuracy in gathering or processing data from which the financial statements are prepared;
(b) An omission of an amount or disclosure;
(c) An incorrect accounting estimate arising from overlooking, or clear misinterpretation of, facts; and
(d) Judgments of management concerning accounting estimates that the auditor considers unreasonable or the
selection and application of accounting policies that the auditor considers inappropriate.
Examples of misstatements arising from fraud are provided in SLAuS 240.
6
Accumulation of Identified Misstatements (Ref: Para. 5)
A2. The auditor may designate an amount below which misstatements would be clearly trivial and would not need to be
accumulated because the auditor expects that the accumulation of such amounts clearly would not have a material
effect on the financial statements. “Clearly trivial” is not another expression for “not material.” Matters that are clearly
trivial will be of a wholly different (smaller) order of magnitude than materiality determined in accordance with SLAuS
320, and will be matters that are clearly inconsequential, whether taken individually or in aggregate and whether
judged by any criteria of size, nature or circumstances. When there is any uncertainty about whether one or more
items are clearly trivial, the matter is considered not to be clearly trivial.
A3. To assist the auditor in evaluating the effect of misstatements accumulated during the audit and in communicating
misstatements to management and those charged with governance, it may be useful to distinguish between factual
misstatements, judgmental misstatements and projected misstatements.
* Factual misstatements are misstatements about which there is no doubt.
* Judgmental misstatements are differences arising from the judgments of management concerning accounting
estimates that the auditor considers unreasonable, or the selection or application of accounting policies that
the auditor considers inappropriate.
5 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.
6 SLAuS 240, “The auditors' responsibility relating to trand in an audit of financial statements" paragraphs A1 - A6

<!-- page 250 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
250A
* Projected misstatements are the auditor’s best estimate of misstatements in populations, involving the projection
of misstatements identified in audit samples to the entire populations from which the samples were drawn.
Guidance on the determination of projected misstatements and evaluation of the results is set out in SLAuS
530.7
Consideration of Identified Misstatements as the Audit Progresses
(Ref: Para. 6-7)
A4. A misstatement may not be an isolated occurrence. Evidence that other misstatements may exist include, for
example, where the auditor identifies that a misstatement arose from a breakdown in internal control or from inappropriate
assumptions or valuation methods that have been widely applied by the entity.
A5. If the aggregate of misstatements accumulated during the audit approaches materiality determined in accordance
with SLAuS 320, there may be a greater than acceptably low level of risk that possible undetected misstatements,
when taken with the aggregate of misstatements accumulated during the audit, could exceed materiality. Undetected
misstatements could exist because of the presence of sampling risk and non-sampling risk.
8
A6. The auditor may request management to examine a class of transactions, account balance or disclosure in order for
management to understand the cause of a misstatement identified by the auditor, perform procedures to determine the
amount of the actual misstatement in the class of transactions, account balance or disclosure, and to make appropriate
adjustments to the financial statements. Such a request may be made, for example, based on the auditor’s projection of
misstatements identified in an audit sample to the entire population from which it was drawn.
Communication and Correction of Misstatements (Ref: Para. 8-9)
A7. Timely communication of misstatements to the appropriate level of management is important as it enables management
to evaluate whether the items are misstatements, inform the auditor if it disagrees, and take action as necessary.
Ordinarily, the appropriate level of management is the one that has responsibility and authority to evaluate the
misstatements and to take the necessary action.
A8. Law or regulation may restrict the auditor’s communication of certain misstatements to management, or others, within
the entity. For example, laws or regulations may specifically prohibit a communication, or other action, that might
prejudice an investigation by an appropriate authority into an actual, or suspected, illegal act. In some circumstances,
potential conflicts between the auditor’s obligations of confidentiality and obligations to communicate may be
complex. In such cases, the auditor may consider seeking legal advice.
A9. The correction by management of all misstatements, including those communicated by the auditor, enables management
to maintain accurate accounting books and records and reduces the risks of material misstatement of future financial
statements because of the cumulative effect of immaterial uncorrected misstatements related to prior periods.
A10. SLAuS 700 requires the auditor to evaluate whether the financial statements are prepared and presented, in all
material respects, in accordance with the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework. This evaluation
includes consideration of the qualitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices, including indicators of possible
bias in management’s judgments,
9 which may be affected by the auditor’s understanding of management’s reasons
for not making the corrections.
7 SLAuS 530, “Audit Sampling,” paragraphs 14-15.
8 SLAuS 530, paragraph 5(c)-(d).
9 SLAuS 700, paragraph 12.

<!-- page 251 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
251A
Evaluating the Effect of Uncorrected Misstatements (Ref: Para. 10-11)
A11. The auditor’s determination of materiality in accordance with SLAuS 320 is often based on estimates of the entity’s
financial results, because the actual financial results may not yet be known. Therefore, prior to the auditor’s evaluation
of the effect of uncorrected misstatements, it may be necessary to revise materiality determined in accordance with
SLAuS 320 based on the actual financial results.
UDITING
A12. SLAuS 320 explains that, as the audit progresses, materiality for the financial statements as a whole (and, if applicable,
the materiality level or levels for particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures) is revised in the
event of the auditor becoming aware of information during the audit that would have caused the auditor to have
determined a different amount (or amounts) initially.
10 Thus, any significant revision is likely to have been made
before the auditor evaluates the effect of uncorrected misstatements. However, if the auditor’s reassessment of
materiality determined in accordance with SLAuS 320 (see paragraph 10 of this SLAuS) gives rise to a lower amount
(or amounts), then performance materiality and the appropriateness of the nature, timing and extent of the further
audit procedures are reconsidered so as to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the audit
opinion.
A13. Each individual misstatement is considered to evaluate its effect on the relevant classes of transactions, account
balances or disclosures, including whether the materiality level for that particular class of transactions, account
balance or disclosure, if any, has been exceeded.
A14. If an individ ual misstatement is judged to be material, it is unlikely that it can be offset by other misstatements. For
example, if revenue has been materially overstated, the financial statements as a whole will be materially misstated,
even if the effect of the misstatement on earnings is completely offset by an equivalent overstatement of expenses. It
may be appropriate to offset misstatements within the same account balance or class of transactions; however, the
risk that further undetected misstatements may exist is considered before concluding that offsetting even immaterial
misstatements is appropriate.
11
A15. Determining whether a classification misstatement is material involves the evaluation of qualitative considerations,
such as the effect of the classification misstatement on debt or other contractual covenants, the effect on individual
line items or sub-totals, or the effect on key ratios. There may be circumstances where the auditor concludes that a
classification misstatement is not material in the context of the financial statements as a whole, even though it may
exceed the materiality level or levels applied in evaluating other misstatements. For example, a misclassification
between balance sheet line items may not be considered material in the context of the financial statements as a whole
when the amount of the misclassification is small in relation to the size of the related balance sheet line items and the
misclassification does not affect the income statement or any key ratios.
A16. The circumstances related to some misstatements may cause the auditor to evaluate them as material, individually or
when considered together with other misstatements accumulated during the audit, even if they are lower than
materiality for the financial statements as a whole. Circumstances that may affect the evaluation include the extent to
which the misstatement :
* Affects compliance with regulatory requirements ;
* Affects compliance with debt covenants or other contractual requirements ;
10 SLAuS 320, paragraph 12.
11 The identification of a number of immaterial misstatements within the same account balance or class of transactions may require  the
auditor to reassess the risk of material misstatement for that account balance or class of transactions.

<!-- page 252 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
252A
* Relates to the incorrect selection or application of an accounting policy that has an immaterial effect on the
current period’s financial statements but is likely to have a material effect on future periods’ financial statements;
* Masks a change in earnings or other trends, especially in the context of general economic and industry
conditions ;
* Affects ratios used to evaluate the entity’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows ;
* Affects segment information presented in the financial statements (for example, the significance of the matter
to a segment or other portion of the entity’s business that has been identified as playing a significant role in the
entity’s operations or profitability) ;
* Has the effect of increasing management compensation, for example, by ensuring that the requirements for the
award of bonuses or other incentives are satisfied ;
* Is significant having regard to the auditor’s understanding of known previous communications to users, for
example, in relation to forecast earnings ;
* Relates to items involving particular parties (for example, whether external parties to the transaction are related
to members of the entity’s management) ;
* Is an omission of information not specifically required by the applicable financial reporting framework but
which, in the judgment of the auditor, is important to the users’ understanding of the financial position, financial
performance or cash flows of the entity ; or
* Affects other information that will be communicated in documents containing the audited financial statements
(for example, information to be included in a “Management Discussion and Analysis” or an “Operating and
Financial Review”) that may reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the
financial statements. SLAuS 720
12 deals with the auditor’s consideration of other information, on which the
auditor has no obligation to report, in documents containing audited financial statements.
These circumstances are only examples; not all are likely to be present in all audits nor is the list necessarily complete.
The existence of any circumstances such as these does not necessarily lead to a conclusion that the misstatement is
material.
A17. SLAuS 240
13 explains how the implications of a misstatement that is, or may be, the result of fraud ought to be
considered in relation to other aspects of the audit, even if the size of the misstatement is not material in relation to the
financial statements.
A18. The cumulative effect of immaterial uncorrected misstatements related to prior periods may have a material effect on
the current period’s financial statements. There are different acceptable approaches to the auditor’s evaluation of
such uncorrected misstatements on the current period’s financial statements. Using the same evaluation approach
provides consistency from period to period.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A19. In the case of an audit of a public sector entity, the evaluation whether a misstatement is material may also be affected
by the auditor’s responsibilities established by law, regulation or other authority to report specific matters, including,
for example, fraud.
12 SLAuS 720, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information in Documents Containing Audited Financial Statements.”
13 SLAuS 240, paragraph 35.

<!-- page 253 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
253A
A20. Furthermore, issues such as public interest, accountability, probity and ensuring effective legislative oversight, in
particular, may affect the assessment whether an item is material by virtue of its nature. This is particularly so for items
that relate to compliance with law, regulation or other authority.
Communication with Those Charged with Governance  (Ref: Para. 12)
A21. If uncorrected misstatements have been communicated with person(s) with management responsibilities, and those
person(s) also have governance responsibilities, they need not be communicated again with those same person(s) in
their governance role. The auditor nonetheless has to be satisfied that communication with person(s) with management
responsibilities adequately informs all of those with whom the auditor would otherwise communicate in their governance
capacity.
14
A22. Where there is a large number of individual immaterial uncorrected misstatements, the auditor may communicate the
number and overall monetary effect of the uncorrected misstatements, rather than the details of each individual
uncorrected misstatement.
A23. SLAuS 260 requires the auditor to communicate with those charged with governance the written representations the
auditor is requesting (see paragraph 14 of this SLAuS).
15 The auditor may discuss with those charged with governance
the reasons for, and the implications of, a failure to correct misstatements, having regard to the size and nature of the
misstatement judged in the surrounding circumstances, and possible implications in relation to future financial
statements.
Written Representation (Ref: Para. 14)
A24. Because the preparation of the financial statements requires management and, where appropriate, those charged with
governance to adjust the financial statements to correct material misstatements, the auditor is required to request
them to provide a written representation about uncorrected misstatements. In some circumstances, management and,
where appropriate, those charged with governance may not believe that certain uncorrected misstatements are
misstatements. For that reason, they may want to add to their written representation words such as: “We do not agree
that items … and … constitute misstatements because [description of reasons].” Obtaining this representation does
not, however, relieve the auditor of the need to form a conclusion on the effect of uncorrected misstatements.
Documentation (Ref: Para. 15)
A25. The auditor’s documentation of uncorrected misstatements may take into account:
(a) The consideration of the aggregate effect of uncorrected misstatements;
(b) The evaluation of whether the materiality level or levels for particular classes of transactions, account balances
or disclosures, if any, have been exceeded; and
(c) The evaluation of the effect of uncorrected misstatements on key ratios or trends, and compliance with legal,
regulatory and contractual requirements (for example, debt covenants).
14 SLAuS 260, paragraph 13.
15 SLAuS 260, paragraph 16(c)(ii).

<!-- page 254 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
254A
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 500
AUDIT EVIDENCE
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS  ............................................................................ 1-2
Effective Date ....................................................................................... 3
Objective  ............................................................................................. 4
Definitions ........................................................................................... 5
Requirements
Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence ................................................ 6
Information to Be Used as Audit Evidence ... ...................................... 7-9
Selecting Items for Testing to Obtain Audit Evidence ........................ 10
Inconsistency in, or Doubts over Reliability of, Audit Evidence ........ 11
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence ............................................... A1-A25
Information to Be Used as Audit Evidence ... ...................................... A26-A51
Selecting Items for Testing to Obtain Audit Evidence ......................... A52-A56
Inconsistency in, or Doubts over Reliability of, Audit Evidence …..... A57
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 500, “Audit Evidence” should be read in conjunction
with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit
in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing StandardsIntroductionScope of this SLAuS
1. This  Scope of this Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) explains what constitutes audit evidence in an audit of
financial statements, and deals with the auditor’s responsibility to design and perform audit procedures to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to be able to draw reasonable conclusions on which to base the auditor’s
opinion.
2. This SLAuS is applicable to all the audit evidence obtained during the course of the audit. Other SLAuSs deal with
specific aspects of the audit (for example, SLAuS 315
1), the audit evidence to be obtained in relation to a particular
topic (for example, SLAuS 5702), specific procedures to obtain audit evidence (for example, SLAuS 520 3), and the
evaluation of whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained (SLAuS 2004 and SLAuS 3305).
Effective Date
3. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
4. The objective of the auditor is to design and perform audit procedures in such a way as to enable the auditor to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to be able to draw reasonable conclusions on which to base the auditor’s
opinion.
1 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment. ”
2 SLAuS 570, “Going Concern.”
3 SLAuS 520, “Analytical Procedures.”
4 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing St andards.”
5 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor ’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”

<!-- page 255 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
255A
Definitions
5. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below :
(a) Accounting records – The records of initial accounting entries and supporting records, such as checks and
records of electronic fund transfers; invoices; contracts; the general and subsidiary ledgers, journal entries and
other adjustments to the financial statements that are not reflected in journal entries; and records such as work
sheets and spreadsheets supporting cost allocations, computations, reconciliations and disclosures ;
AUDITING
(b) Appropriateness (of audit evidence) – The measure of the quality of audit evidence; that is, its relevance and
its reliability in providing support for the conclusions on which the auditor’s opinion is based ;
(c) Audit evidence – Information used by the auditor in arriving at the conclusions on which the auditor’s opinion
is based. Audit evidence includes both information contained in the accounting records underlying the financial
statements and other information ;
(d) Management’s expert – An individual or organization possessing expertise in a field other than accounting or
auditing, whose work in that field is used by the entity to assist the entity in preparing the financial
statements ;
(e) Sufficiency (of audit evidence) – The measure of the quantity of audit evidence. The quantity of the audit
evidence needed is affected by the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement and also by the
quality of such audit evidence.
Requirements
Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence
6. The auditor shall design and perform audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of
obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence. (Ref: Para. A1-A25)
Information to Be Used as Audit Evidence
7. When designing and performing audit procedures, the auditor shall consider the relevance and reliability of the
information to be used as audit evidence. (Ref: Para. A26-A33)
8. If information to be used as audit evidence has been prepared using the work of a management’s expert, the auditor
shall, to the extent necessary, having regard to the significance of that expert’s work for the auditor’s purposes : (Ref:
Para. A34-A36)
(a) Evaluate the competence, capabilities and objectivity of that expert ; (Ref: Para. A37-A43)
(b) Obtain an understanding of the work of that expert ; and (Ref: Para. A44-A47)
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of that expert’s work as audit evidence for the relevant assertion. (Ref: Para. A48)
9. When using information produced by the entity, the auditor shall evaluate whether the information is sufficiently
reliable for the auditor’s purposes, including as necessary in the circumstances :
(a) Obtaining audit evidence about the accuracy and completeness of the information ; and (Ref: Para. A49-A50)
(b) Evaluating whether the information is sufficiently precise and detailed for the auditor’s purposes. (Ref: Para.
A51)

<!-- page 256 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
256A
Selecting Items for Testing to Obtain Audit Evidence
10. When designing tests of controls and tests of details, the auditor shall determine means of selecting items for testing
that are effective in meeting the purpose of the audit procedure. (Ref: Para. A52-A56)
Inconsistency in, or Doubts over Reliability of, Audit Evidence
11. If:
(a) audit evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent with that obtained from another; or
(b) the auditor has doubts over the reliability of information to be used as audit evidence, the auditor shall
determine what modifications or additions to audit procedures are necessary to resolve the matter, and shall
consider the effect of the matter, if any, on other aspects of the audit. (Ref: Para. A57)
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 6)
A1. Audit evidence is necessary to support the auditor’s opinion and report. It is cumulative in nature and is primarily
obtained from audit procedures performed during the course of the audit. It may, however, also include information
obtained from other sources such as previous audits (provided the auditor has determined whether changes have
occurred since the previous audit that may affect its relevance to the current audit
6) or a firm’s quality control
procedures for client acceptance and continuance. In addition to other sources inside and outside the entity, the
entity’s accounting records are an important source of audit evidence. Also, information that may be used as audit
evidence may have been prepared using the work of a management’s expert. Audit evidence comprises both information
that supports and corroborates management’s assertions, and any information that contradicts such assertions. In
addition, in some cases the absence of information (for example, management’s refusal to provide a requested
representation) is used by the auditor, and therefore, also constitutes audit evidence.
A2. Most of the auditor’s work in forming the auditor’s opinion consists of obtaining and evaluating audit evidence.
Audit procedures to obtain audit evidence can include inspection, observation, confirmation, recalculation,
reperformance and analytical procedures, often in some combination, in addition to inquiry. Although inquiry may
provide important audit evidence, and may even produce evidence of a misstatement, inquiry alone ordinarily does
not provide sufficient audit evidence of the absence of a material misstatement at the assertion level, nor of the
operating effectiveness of controls.
A3. As explained in SLAuS 200,
7 reasonable assurance is obtained when the auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate
audit evidence to reduce audit risk (that is, the risk that the auditor expresses an inappropriate opinion when the
financial statements are materially misstated) to an acceptably low level.
A4. The sufficiency and appropriateness of audit evidence are interrelated. Sufficiency is the measure of the quantity of
audit evidence. The quantity of audit evidence needed is affected by the auditor’s assessment of the risks of
misstatement (the higher the assessed risks, the more audit evidence is likely to be required) and also by the quality
of such audit evidence (the higher the quality, the less may be required). Obtaining more audit evidence, however,
may not compensate for its poor quality.
6 SLAuS 315, paragraph 9.
7 SLAuS 200, paragraph 5.

<!-- page 257 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
257A
A5. Appropriateness is the measure of the quality of audit evidence; that is, its relevance and its reliability in providing
support for the conclusions on which the auditor’s opinion is based. The reliability of evidence is influenced by its
source and by its nature, and is dependent on the individual circumstances under which it is obtained.
A6. SLAuS 330 requires the auditor to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained.
8
Whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level, and
thereby enable the auditor to draw reasonable conclusions on which to base the auditor’s opinion, is a matter of
professional judgment. SLAuS 200 contains discussion of such matters as the nature of audit procedures, the
timeliness of financial reporting, and the balance between benefit and cost, which are relevant factors when the
auditor exercises professional judgment regarding whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained.
Sources of Audit Evidence
A7. Some audit evidence is obtained by performing audit procedures to test the accounting records, for example, through
analysis and review, reperforming procedures followed in the financial reporting process, and reconciling related
types and applications of the same information. Through the performance of such audit procedures, the auditor may
determine that the accounting records are internally consistent and agree to the financial statements.
A8. More assurance is ordinarily obtained from consistent audit evidence obtained from different sources or of a different
nature than from items of audit evidence considered individually. For example, corroborating information obtained
from a source independent of the entity may increase the assurance the auditor obtains from audit evidence that is
generated internally, such as evidence existing within the accounting records, minutes of meetings, or a management
representation.
A9. Information from sources independent of the entity that the auditor may use as audit evidence may include confirmations
from third parties, analysts’ reports, and comparable data about competitors (benchmarking data).
Audit Procedures for Obtaining Audit Evidence
A10. As required by, and explained further in, SLAuS 315 and SLAuS 330, audit evidence to draw reasonable conclusions
on which to base the auditor’s opinion is obtained by performing :
(a) Risk assessment procedures ; and
(b) Further audit procedures, which comprise :
(i) Tests of controls, when required by the SLAuSs or when the auditor has chosen to do so; and
(ii) Substantive procedures, including tests of details and substantive analytical procedures.
A11. The audit procedures described in paragraphs A14-A25 below may be used as risk assessment procedures, tests of
controls or substantive procedures, depending on the context in which they are applied by the auditor. As explained
in SLAuS 330, audit evidence obtained from previous audits may, in certain circumstances, provide appropriate audit
evidence where the auditor performs audit procedures to establish its continuing relevance.
9
A12. The nature and timing of the audit procedures to be used may be affected by the fact that some of the accounting data
and other information may be available only in electronic form or only at certain points or periods in time. For example,
source documents, such as purchase orders and invoices, may exist only in electronic form when an entity uses
electronic commerce, or may be discarded after scanning when an entity uses image processing systems to facilitate
storage and reference.
8 SLAuS 330, paragraph 26.
9 SLAuS 330, paragraph A35.

<!-- page 258 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
258A
A13. Certain electronic information may not be retrievable after a specified period of time, for example, if files are changed
and if backup files do not exist. Accordingly, the auditor may find it necessary as a result of an entity’s data retention
policies to request retention of some information for the auditor’s review or to perform audit procedures at a time
when the information is available.
Inspection
A14. Inspection involves examining records or documents, whether internal or external, in paper form, electronic form, or
other media, or a physical examination of an asset. Inspection of records and documents provides audit evidence of
varying degrees of reliability, depending on their nature and source and, in the case of internal records and documents,
on the effectiveness of the controls over their production. An example of inspection used as a test of controls is
inspection of records for evidence of authorization.
A15. Some documents represent direct audit evidence of the existence of an asset, for example, a document constituting a
financial instrument such as a stock or bond. Inspection of such documents may not necessarily provide audit
evidence about ownership or value. In addition, inspecting an executed contract may provide audit evidence relevant
to the entity’s application of accounting policies, such as revenue recognition.
A16. Inspection of tangible assets may provide reliable audit evidence with respect to their existence, but not necessarily
about the entity’s rights and obligations or the valuation of the assets. Inspection of individual inventory items may
accompany the observation of inventory counting.
Observation
A17. Observation consists of looking at a process or procedure being performed by others, for example, the auditor’s
observation of inventory counting by the entity’s personnel, or of the performance of control activities. Observation
provides audit evidence about the performance of a process or procedure, but is limited to the point in time at which
the observation takes place, and by the fact that the act of being observed may affect how the process or procedure
is performed. See SLAuS 501 for further guidance on observation of the counting of inventory.10
External Confirmation
A18. An external confirmation represents audit evidence obtained by the auditor as a direct written response to the auditor
from a third party (the confirming party), in paper form, or by electronic or other medium. External confirmation
procedures frequently are relevant when addressing assertions associated with certain account balances and their
elements. However, external confirmations need not be restricted to account balances only. For example, the auditor
may request confirmation of the terms of agreements or transactions an entity has with third parties; the confirmation
request may be designed to ask if any modifications have been made to the agreement and, if so, what the relevant
details are. External confirmation procedures also are used to obtain audit evidence about the absence of certain
conditions, for example, the absence of a “side agreement” that may influence revenue recognition. See SLAuS 505
for further guidance.11
Recalculation
A19. Recalculation consists of checking the mathematical accuracy of documents or records. Recalculation may be performed
manually or electronically.
10 SLAuS 501, “Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations for Selected Items.”
11 SLAuS 505, “External Confirmations.”

<!-- page 259 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
259A
Reperformance
A20. Reperformance involves the auditor’s independent execution of procedures or controls that were originally performed
as part of the entity’s internal control.
Analytical Procedures
A21. Analytical procedures consist of evaluations of financial information through analysis of plausible relationships
among both financial and non-financial data. Analytical procedures also encompass such investigation as is necessary
of identified fluctuations or relationships that are inconsistent with other relevant information or that differ from
expected values by a significant amount. See SLAuS 520 for further guidance.
Inquiry
A22. Inquiry consists of seeking information of knowledgeable persons, both financial and non-financial, within the entity
or outside the entity. Inquiry is used extensively throughout the audit in addition to other audit procedures. Inquiries
may range from formal written inquiries to informal oral inquiries. Evaluating responses to inquiries is an integral part
of the inquiry process.
A23. Responses to i nquiries may provide the auditor with information not previously possessed or with corroborative
audit evidence. Alternatively, responses might provide information that differs significantly from other information
that the auditor has obtained, for example, information regarding the possibility of management override of controls.
In some cases, responses to inquiries provide a basis for the auditor to modify or perform additional audit procedures.
A24. Although corroboration of evidence obtained through inquiry is often of particular importance, in the case of
inquiries about management intent, the information available to support management’s intent may be limited. In these
cases, understanding management’s past history of carrying out its stated intentions, management’s stated reasons
for choosing a particular course of action, and management’s ability to pursue a specific course of action may provide
relevant information to corroborate the evidence obtained through inquiry.
A25. In respect of some matters, the auditor may consider it necessary to obtain written representations from management
and, where appropriate, those charged with governance to confirm responses to oral inquiries. See SLAuS 580 for
further guidance.
12
Information to Be Used as Audit Evidence
Relevance and Reliability (Ref: Para. 7)
A26. As noted in paragraph A1, while audit evidence is primarily obtained from audit procedures performed during the
course of the audit, it may also include information obtained from other sources such as, for example, previous audits,
in certain circumstances, and a firm’s quality control procedures for client acceptance and continuance. The quality
of all audit evidence is affected by the relevance and reliability of the information upon which it is based.
Relevance
A27. Relevance deals with the logical connection with, or bearing upon, the purpose of the audit procedure and, where
appropriate, the assertion under consideration. The relevance of information to be used as audit evidence may be
affected by the direction of testing. For example, if the purpose of an audit procedure is to test for overstatement in
the existence or valuation of accounts payable, testing the recorded accounts payable may be a relevant audit
12 SLAuS 580, “Written Representations.”

<!-- page 260 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
260A
procedure. On the other hand, when testing for understatement in the existence or valuation of accounts payable,
testing the recorded accounts payable would not be relevant, but testing such information as subsequent
disbursements, unpaid invoices, suppliers’ statements, and unmatched receiving reports may be relevant.
A28. A given set of audit procedures may provide audit evidence that is relevant to certain assertions, but not others. For
example, inspection of documents related to the collection of receivables after the period end may provide audit
evidence regarding existence and valuation, but not necessarily cutoff. Similarly, obtaining audit evidence regarding
a particular assertion, for example, the existence of inventory, is not a substitute for obtaining audit evidence regarding
another assertion, for example, the valuation of that inventory. On the other hand, audit evidence from different
sources or of a different nature may often be relevant to the same assertion.
A29. Tests of controls are designed to evaluate the operating effectiveness of controls in preventing, or detecting and
correcting, material misstatements at the assertion level. Designing tests of controls to obtain relevant audit evidence
includes identifying conditions (characteristics or attributes) that indicate performance of a control, and deviation
conditions which indicate departures from adequate performance. The presence or absence of those conditions can
then be tested by the auditor.
A30. Substantive procedures are designed to detect material misstatements at the assertion level. They comprise tests of
details and substantive analytical procedures. Designing substantive procedures includes identifying conditions
relevant to the purpose of the test that constitute a misstatement in the relevant assertion.
Reliability
A31. The reliability of information to be used as audit evidence, and therefore of the audit evidence itself, is influenced by
its source and its nature, and the circumstances under which it is obtained, including the controls over its preparation
and maintenance where relevant. Therefore, generalizations about the reliability of various kinds of audit evidence
are subject to important exceptions. Even when information to be used as audit evidence is obtained from sources
external to the entity, circumstances may exist that could affect its reliability. For example, information obtained from
an independent external source may not be reliable if the source is not knowledgeable, or a management’s expert may
lack objectivity. While recognizing that exceptions may exist, the following generalizations about the reliability of
audit evidence may be useful:
∗ The reliability of audit evidence is increased when it is obtained from independent sources outside the entity.
∗ The reliability of audit evidence that is generated internally is increased when the related controls, including
those over its preparation and maintenance, imposed by the entity are effective.
∗ Audit evidence obtained directly by the auditor (for example, observation of the application of a control) is
more reliable than audit evidence obtained indirectly or by inference (for example, inquiry about the application
of a control).
∗ Audit evidence in documentary form, whether paper, electronic, or other medium, is more reliable than evidence
obtained orally (for example, a contemporaneously written record of a meeting is more reliable than a subsequent
oral representation of the matters discussed).
∗ Audit evidence provided by original documents is more reliable than audit evidence provided by photocopies
or facsimiles, or documents that have been filmed, digitized or otherwise transformed into electronic form, the
reliability of which may depend on the controls over their preparation and maintenance.
A32. SLAuS 520 provides further guidance regarding the reliability of data used for purposes of designing analytical
procedures as substantive procedures.
13
13 SLAuS 520, paragraph 5(a).

<!-- page 261 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
261A
A33. SLAuS 240 deals with circumstances where the auditor has reason to believe that a document may not be authentic,
or may have been modified without that modification having been disclosed to the auditor. 14
Reliability of Information Produced by a Management’ s Expert (Ref: Para. 8)
A34. The preparation of an entity’s financial statements may require expertise in a field other than accounting or auditing,
such as actuarial calculations, valuations, or engineering data. The entity may employ or engage experts in these
fields to obtain the needed expertise to prepare the financial statements. Failure to do so when such expertise is
necessary increases the risks of material misstatement.
A35. When information to be used as audit evidence has been prepared using the work of a management’s expert, the
requirement in paragraph 8 of this SLAuS applies. For example, an individual or organization may possess expertise
in the application of models to estimate the fair value of securities for which there is no observable market. If the
individual or organization applies that expertise in making an estimate which the entity uses in preparing its financial
statements, the individual or organization is a management’s expert and paragraph 8 applies. If, on the other hand,
that individual or organization merely provides price data regarding private transactions not otherwise available to
the entity which the entity uses in its own estimation methods, such information, if used as audit evidence, is subject
to paragraph 7 of this SLAuS, but is not the use of a management’s expert by the entity.
A36. The nature, timing and extent of audit procedures in relation to the requirement in paragraph 8 of this SLAuS, may be
affected by such matters as:
∗ The nature and complexity of the matter to which the management’s expert relates.
∗ The risks of material misstatement in the matter.
∗ The availability of alternative sources of audit evidence.
∗ The nature, scope and objectives of the management’s expert’s work.
∗ Whether the management’s expert is employed by the entity, or is a party engaged by it to provide relevant
services.
∗ The extent to which management can exercise control or influence over the work of the management’s expert.
∗ Whether the management’s expert is subject to technical performance standards or other professional or
industry requirements.
∗ The nature and extent of any controls within the entity over the management’s expert’s work.
∗ The auditor’s knowledge and experience of the management’s expert’s field of expertise.
∗ The auditor’s previous experience of the work of that expert.
The Competence, Capabilities and Objectivity of a Management’s Expert (Ref: Para. 8(a))
A37. Competence relates to the nature and level of expertise of the management’s expert. Capability relates the ability of the
management’s expert to exercise that competence in the circumstances. Factors that influence capability may include,
for example, geographic location, and the availability of time and resources. Objectivity relates to the possible effects
that bias, conflict of interest or the influence of others may have on the professional or business judgment of the
14 SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraph 13.

<!-- page 262 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
262A
management’s expert. The competence, capabilities and objectivity of a management’s expert, and any controls within
the entity over that expert’s work, are important factors in relation to the reliability of any information produced by a
management’s expert.
A38. Information regarding the competence, capabilities and objectivity of a management’s expert may come from a variety
of sources, such as:
∗ Personal experience with previous work of that expert.
∗ Discussions with that expert.
∗ Discussions with others who are familiar with that expert’s work.
∗ Knowledge of that expert’s qualifications, membership of a professional body or industry association, license
to practice, or other forms of external recognition.
∗ Published papers or books written by that expert.
∗ An auditor’s expert, if any, who assists the auditor in obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence with
respect to information produced by the management’s expert.
A39. Matters relevant to evaluating the competence, capabilities and objectivity of a management’s expert include whether
that expert’s work is subject to technical performance standards or other professional or industry requirements, for
example, ethical standards and other membership requirements of a professional body or industry association,
accreditation standards of a licensing body, or requirements imposed by law or regulation.
A40. Other matters that may be relevant include:
∗ The relevance of the management’s expert’s competence to the matter for which that expert’s work will be used,
including any areas of specialty within that expert’s field. For example, a particular actuary may specialize in
property and casualty insurance, but have limited expertise regarding pension calculations.
∗ The management’s expert’s competence with respect to relevant accounting requirements, for example,
knowledge of assumptions and methods, including models where applicable, that are consistent with the
applicable financial reporting framework.
∗ Whether unexpected events, changes in conditions, or the audit evidence obtained from the results of audit
procedures indicate that it may be necessary to reconsider the initial evaluation of the competence, capabilities
and objectivity of the management’s expert as the audit progresses.
A41. A broad range of circumstances may threaten objectivity, for example, self-interest threats, advocacy threats, familiarity
threats, self-review threats and intimidation threats. Safeguards may reduce such threats, and may be created either
by external structures (for example, the management’s expert’s profession, legislation or regulation), or by the
management’s expert’s work environment (for example, quality control policies and procedures).
A42. Although safeguards cannot eliminate all threats to a management’s expert’s objectivity, threats such as intimidation
threats may be of less significance to an expert engaged by the entity than to an expert employed by the entity, and
the effectiveness of safeguards such as quality control policies and procedures may be greater. Because the threat to
objectivity created by being an employee of the entity will always be present, an expert employed by the entity cannot
ordinarily be regarded as being more likely to be objective than other employees of the entity.
A43. When evaluating the objectivity of an expert engaged by the entity, it may be relevant to discuss with management
and that expert any interests and relationships that may create threats to the expert’s objectivity, and any applicable

<!-- page 263 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
263A
safeguards, including any professional requirements that apply to the expert; and to evaluate whether the safeguards
are adequate. Interests and relationships creating threats may include :
∗ Financial interests.
∗ Business and personal relationships.
∗ Provision of other services.
Obtaining an Understanding of the Work of the Management’s Expert (Ref: Para. 8(b))
A44. An understanding of the work of the management’s expert includes an understanding of the relevant field of expertise.
An understanding of the relevant field of expertise may be obtained in conjunction with the auditor’s determination
of whether the auditor has the expertise to evaluate the work of the management’s expert, or whether the auditor
needs an auditor’s expert for this purpose.
15
A45. Aspects of the management’s expert’s field relevant to the auditor’s understanding may include :
∗ Whether that expert’s field has areas of specialty within it that are relevant to the audit.
∗ Whether any professional or other standards, and regulatory or legal requirements apply.
∗ What assumptions and methods are used by the management’s expert, and whether they are generally accepted
within that expert’s field and appropriate for financial reporting purposes.
∗ The nature of internal and external data or information the auditor’s expert uses.
A46. In the case of a management’s expert engaged by the entity, there will ordinarily be an engagement letter or other
written form of agreement between the entity and that expert. Evaluating that agreement when obtaining an
understanding of the work of the management’s expert may assist the auditor in determining the appropriateness of
the following for the auditor’s purposes :
∗ The nature, scope and objectives of that expert’s work;
∗ The respective roles and responsibilities of management and that expert; and
∗ The nature, timing and extent of communication between management and that expert, including the form of any
report to be provided by that expert.
A47. In the case of a management’s expert employed by the entity, it is less likely there will be a written agreement of this
kind. Inquiry of the expert and other members of management may be the most appropriate way for the auditor to
obtain the necessary understanding.
Evaluating the Appropriateness of the Management’s Expert’s Work (Ref: Para. 8(c))
A48. Considerations when evaluating the appropriateness of the management’s expert’s work as audit evidence for the
relevant assertion may include:
∗ The relevance and reasonableness of that expert’s findings or conclusions, their consistency with other audit
evidence, and whether they have been appropriately reflected in the financial statements;
15 SLAuS 620, “Using the Work of an Auditor’s Expert,” paragraph 7.

<!-- page 264 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
264A
∗ If that expert’s work involves use of significant assumptions and methods, the relevance and reasonableness
of those assumptions and methods; and
∗ If that expert’s work involves significant use of source data the relevance, completeness, and accuracy of that
source data.
Information Produced by the Entity and Used for the Auditor’ s Purposes (Ref: Para. 9(a)-(b))
A49. In order for the auditor to obtain reliable audit evidence, information produced by the entity that is used for performing
audit procedures needs to be sufficiently complete and accurate. For example, the effectiveness of auditing revenue
by applying standard prices to records of sales volume is affected by the accuracy of the price information and the
completeness and accuracy of the sales volume data. Similarly, if the auditor intends to test a population (for example,
payments) for a certain characteristic (for example, authorization), the results of the test will be less reliable if the
population from which items are selected for testing is not complete.
A50. Obtaining audit evidence about the accuracy and completeness of such information may be performed concurrently
with the actual audit procedure applied to the information when obtaining such audit evidence is an integral part of
the audit procedure itself. In other situations, the auditor may have obtained audit evidence of the accuracy and
completeness of such information by testing controls over the preparation and maintenance of the information. In
some situations, however, the auditor may determine that additional audit procedures are needed.
A51. In some cases, the auditor may intend to use information produced by the entity for other audit purposes. For
example, the auditor may intend to make use of the entity’s performance measures for the purpose of analytical
procedures, or to make use of the entity’s information produced for monitoring activities, such as internal auditor’s
reports. In such cases, the appropriateness of the audit evidence obtained is affected by whether the information is
sufficiently precise or detailed for the auditor’s purposes. For example, performance measures used by management
may not be precise enough to detect material misstatements.
Selecting Items for Testing to Obtain Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 10)
A52. An effective test provides appropriate audit evidence to an extent that, taken with other audit evidence obtained or
to be obtained, will be sufficient for the auditor’s purposes. In selecting items for testing, the auditor is required by
paragraph 7 to determine the relevance and reliability of information to be used as audit evidence; the other aspect of
effectiveness (sufficiency) is an important consideration in selecting items to test. The means available to the auditor
for selecting items for testing are :
(a) Selecting all items (100% examination) ;
(b) Selecting specific items ; and
(c) Audit sampling.
The application of any one or combination of these means may be appropriate depending on the particular
circumstances, for example, the risks of material misstatement related to the assertion being tested, and the practicality
and efficiency of the different means.
Selecting All Items
A53. The auditor may decide that it will be most appropriate to examine the entire population of items that make up a class
of transactions or account balance (or a stratum within that population). 100% examination is unlikely in the case of

<!-- page 265 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
265A
tests of controls; however, it is more common for tests of details. 100% examination may be appropriate when, for
example :
∗ The population constitutes a small number of large value items ;
∗ There is a significant risk and other means do not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence ; or
∗ The repetitive nature of a calculation or other process performed automatically by an information system makes
a 100% examination cost effective.
Selecting Specific Items
A54. The auditor may decide to select specific items from a population. In making this decision, factors that may be
relevant include the auditor’s understanding of the entity, the assessed risks of material misstatement, and the
characteristics of the population being tested. The judgmental selection of specific items is subject to non-sampling
risk. Specific items selected may include :
∗ High value or key items. The auditor may decide to select specific items within a population because they are
of high value, or exhibit some other characteristic, for example, items that are suspicious, unusual, particularly
risk-prone or that have a history of error.
∗ All items over a certain amount. The auditor may decide to examine items whose recorded values exceed a
certain amount so as to verify a large proportion of the total amount of a class of transactions or account
balance.
∗ Items to obtain information. The auditor may examine items to obtain information about matters such as the
nature of the entity or the nature of transactions.
A55. While selective examination of specific items from a class of transactions or account balance will often be an efficient
means of obtaining audit evidence, it does not constitute audit sampling. The results of audit procedures applied to
items selected in this way cannot be projected to the entire population; accordingly, selective examination of specific
items does not provide audit evidence concerning the remainder of the population.
Audit Sampling
A56. Audit sampling is designed to enable conclusions to be drawn about an entire population on the basis of testing a
sample drawn from it. Audit sampling is discussed in SLAuS 530.
16
Inconsistency in, or Doubts over Reliability of, Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 11)
A57. Obtaining audit evidence from different sources or of a different nature may indicate that an individual item of audit
evidence is not reliable, such as when audit evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent with that obtained
from another. This may be the case when, for example, responses to inquiries of management, internal audit, and
others are inconsistent, or when responses to inquiries of those charged with governance made to corroborate the
responses to inquiries of management are inconsistent with the response by management. SLAuS 230 includes a
specific documentation requirement if the auditor identified information that is inconsistent with the auditor’s final
conclusion regarding a significant matter.
17
16 SLAuS 530, “Audit Sampling.”
17 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraph 11.

<!-- page 266 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
266A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  501
AUDIT  EVIDENCE—SPECIFIC  CONSIDERATIONS
FOR  SELECTED  ITEMS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ........................................................................... 1
Effective Date ...................................................................................... 2
Objective ............................................................................................. 3
Requirements
Inventory .............................................................................................. 4-8
Litigation and Claims ........................................................................... 9-12
Segment Information  ………............................................................... 13
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Inventory .............................................................................................. A1-A16
Litigation and Claims  .......................................................................... A17-A25
Segment Information ........................................................................... A26-A27
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 501, “Audit Evidence—Specific Considerations for
Selected Items” should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the
Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with specific considerations by the auditor in obtaining sufficient
appropriate audit evidence in accordance with SLAuS 330,
1 SLAuS 5002 and other relevant SLAuSs, with respect to
certain aspects of inventory, litigation and claims involving the entity, and segment information in an audit of
financial statements.
Effective Date
2. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
3. The objective of the auditor is to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the:
(a) Existence and condition of inventory;
(b) Completeness of litigation and claims involving the entity; and
(c) Presentation and disclosure of segment information in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework.
1 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”
2 SLAuS 500, “Audit Evidence.”

<!-- page 267 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
267A
Requirements
Inventory
4. If inventory is material to the financial statements, the auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence
regarding the existence and condition of inventory by :
(a) Attendance at physical inventory counting, unless impracticable, to : (Ref: Para. A1-A3)
(i) Evaluate management’s instructions and procedures for recording and controlling the results of the entity’s
physical inventory counting ; (Ref: Para. A4)
(ii) Observe the performance of management’s count procedures; (Ref: Para. A5)
(iii) Inspect the inventory ; and (Ref: Para. A6)
(iv) Perform test counts ; and (Ref: Para. A7-A8)
AUDITING
(b) Performing audit procedures over the entity’s final inventory records to determine whether they accurately
reflect actual inventory count results.
5. If physical inventory counting is conducted at a date other than the date of the financial statements, the auditor shall,
in addition to the procedures required by paragraph 4, perform audit procedures to obtain audit evidence about
whether changes in inventory between the count date and the date of the financial statements are properly recorded.
(Ref: Para. A9-A11)
6. If the auditor is unable to attend physical inventory counting due to unforeseen circumstances, the auditor shall
make or observe some physical counts on an alternative date, and perform audit procedures on intervening transactions.
7. If attendance at physical inventory counting is impracticable, the auditor shall perform alternative audit procedures
to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the existence and condition of inventory. If it is not possible
to do so, the auditor shall modify the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705.
3 (Ref: Para. A12-
A14)
8. If inventory under the custody and control of a third party is material to the financial statements, the auditor shall
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the existence and condition of that inventory by performing
one or both of the following :
(a) Request confirmation from the third party as to the quantities and condition of inventory held on behalf of the
entity ;  (Ref: Para. A15)
(b) Perform inspection or other audit procedures appropriate in the circumstances. (Ref: Para. A16)
Litigation and Claims
9. The auditor shall design and perform audit procedures in order to identify litigation and claims involving the entity
which may give rise to a risk of material misstatement, including: (Ref: Para. A17-A19)
(a) Inquiry of management and, where applicable, others within the entity, including in-house legal counsel;
3 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”

<!-- page 268 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
268A
(b) Reviewing minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and correspondence between the entity and
its external legal counsel; and
(c) Reviewing legal expense accounts. (Ref: Para. A20)
10. If the auditor assesses a risk of material misstatement regarding litigation or claims that have been identified, or when
audit procedures performed indicate that other material litigation or claims may exist, the auditor shall, in addition to
the procedures required by other SLAuSs, seek direct communication with the entity’s external legal counsel. The
auditor shall do so through a letter of inquiry, prepared by management and sent by the auditor, requesting the
entity’s external legal counsel to communicate directly with the auditor. If law, regulation or the respective legal
professional body prohibits the entity’s external legal counsel from communicating directly with the auditor, the
auditor shall perform alternative audit procedures. (Ref: Para. A21-A25)
11. If:
(a) management refuses to give the auditor permission to communicate or meet with the entity’s external legal
counsel, or the entity’s external legal counsel refuses to respond appropriately to the letter of inquiry, or is
prohibited from responding; and
(b) the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence by performing alternative audit procedures,
the auditor shall modify the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705.
Written Representations
12. The auditor shall request management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance to provide written
representations that all known actual or possible litigation and claims whose effects should be considered when
preparing the financial statements have been disclosed to the auditor and accounted for and disclosed in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework.
Segment Information
13. The auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the presentation and disclosure of segment
information in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework by : (Ref: Para. A26)
(a) Obtaining an understanding of the methods used by management in determining segment information, and  :
(Ref: Para. A27)
(i) Evaluating whether such methods are likely to result in disclosure in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting framework ; and
(ii) Where appropriate, testing the application of such methods ; and
(b) Performing analytical procedures or other audit procedures appropriate in the circumstances.
***
AUDITING
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Inventory
Attendance at Physical Inventory Counting  (Ref: Para. 4(a))
A1. Management ordinarily establishes procedures under which inventory is physically counted at least once a year to
serve as a basis for the preparation of the financial statements and, if applicable, to ascertain the reliability of the
entity’s perpetual inventory system.

<!-- page 269 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
269A
A2. Attendance at physical inventory counting involves :
* Inspecting the inventory to ascertain its existence and evaluate its condition, and performing test
counts ;
* Observing compliance with management’s instructions and the performance of procedures for recording and
controlling the results of the physical inventory count ; and
* Obtaining audit evidence as to the reliability of management’s count procedures.
These procedures may serve as test of controls or substantive procedures depending on the auditor’s risk
assessment, planned approach and the specific procedures carried out.
A3. Matters relevant in planning attendance at physical inventory counting (or in designing and performing audit
procedures pursuant to paragraphs 4-8 of this SLAuS) include, for example:
* The risks of material misstatement related to inventory.
* The nature of the internal control related to inventory.
* Whether adequate procedures are expected to be established and proper instructions issued for physical
inventory counting.
* The timing of physical inventory counting.
* Whether the entity maintains a perpetual inventory system.
* The locations at which inventory is held, including the materiality of the inventory and the risks of material
misstatement at different locations, in deciding at which locations attendance is appropriate. SLAuS 600
4 deals
with the involvement of other auditors and accordingly may be relevant if such involvement is with regards to
attendance of physical inventory counting at a remote location.
* Whether the assistance of an auditor’s expert is needed. SLAuS 620
5 deals with the use of an auditor’s expert
to assist the auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
Evaluate Management’s Instructions and Procedures (Ref: Para. 4(a)(i))
A4. Matters relevant in evaluating management’s instructions and procedures for recording and controlling the physical
inventory counting include whether they address, for example:
* The application of appropriate control activities, for example, collection of used physical inventory count
records, accounting for unused physical inventory count records, and count and re-count procedures.
* The accurate identification of the stage of completion of work in progress, of slow moving, obsolete or damaged
items and of inventory owned by a third party, for example, on consignment.
* The procedures used to estimate physical quantities, where applicable, such as may be needed in estimating
the physical quantity of a coal pile.
* Control over the movement of inventory between areas and the shipping and receipt of inventory before and
after the cutoff date.
4 SLAuS 600, “Special Considerations — Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors).”
5 SLAuS 620, “Using the Work of an Auditor’s Expert.”

<!-- page 270 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
270A
Observe the Performance of Management’s Count Procedures (Ref: Para. 4(a)(ii))
A5. Observing the performance of management’s count procedures, for example those relating to control over the movement
of inventory before, during and after the count, assists the auditor in obtaining audit evidence that management’s
instructions and count procedures are adequately designed and implemented. In addition, the auditor may obtain
copies of cutoff information, such as details of the movement of inventory, to assist the auditor in performing audit
procedures over the accounting for such movements at a later date.
Inspect the Inventory (Ref: Para. 4(a)(iii))
A6. Inspecting inventory when attending physical inventory counting assists the auditor in ascertaining the existence of
the inventory (though not necessarily its ownership), and in identifying, for example, obsolete, damaged or aging
inventory.
Perform Test Counts (Ref: Para. 4(a)(iv))
A7. Performing test counts, for example by tracing items selected from management’s count records to the physical
inventory and tracing items selected from the physical inventory to management’s count records, provides audit
evidence about the completeness and the accuracy of those records.
A8. In addition to recording the auditor’s test counts, obtaining copies of management’s completed physical inventory
count records assists the auditor in performing subsequent audit procedures to determine whether the entity’s final
inventory records accurately reflect actual inventory count results.
Physical Inventory Counting Conducted Other than At the Date of the Financial Statements  (Ref: Para. 5)
A9. For practical reasons, the physical inventory counting may be conducted at a date, or dates, other than the date of the
financial statements. This may be done irrespective of whether management determines inventory quantities by an
annual physical inventory counting or maintains a perpetual inventory system. In either case, the effectiveness of the
design, implementation and maintenance of controls over changes in inventory determines whether the conduct of
physical inventory counting at a date, or dates, other than the date of the financial statements is appropriate for audit
purposes. SLAuS 330 establishes requirements and provides guidance on substantive procedures performed at an
interim date.
6
A10. Where a perpetual inventory system is maintained, management may perform physical counts or other tests to
ascertain the reliability of inventory quantity information included in the entity’s perpetual inventory records. In
some cases, management or the auditor may identify differences between the perpetual inventory records and actual
physical inventory quantities on hand; this may indicate that the controls over changes in inventory are not operating
effectively.
A11. Relevant matters for consideration when designing audit procedures to obtain audit evidence about whether changes
in inventory amounts between the count date, or dates, and the final inventory records are properly recorded include:
* Whether the perpetual inventory records are properly adjusted.
* Reliability of the entity’s perpetual inventory records.
* Reasons for significant differences between the information obtained during the physical count and the perpetual
inventory records.
6 SLAuS 330, paragraphs 22-23.

<!-- page 271 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
271A
Attendance at Physical Inventory Counting Is Impracticable  (Ref: Para. 7)
A12. In some cases, attendance at physical inventory counting may be impracticable. This may be due to factors such as
the nature and location of the inventory, for example, where inventory is held in a location that may pose threats to the
safety of the auditor. The matter of general inconvenience to the auditor, however, is not sufficient to support a
decision by the auditor that attendance is impracticable. Further, as explained in SLAuS 200,7 the matter of difficulty,
time, or cost involved is not in itself a valid basis for the auditor to omit an audit procedure for which there is no
alternative or to be satisfied with audit evidence that is less than persuasive.
A13. In some cases where attendance is impracticable, alternative audit procedures, for example inspection of documentation
of the subsequent sale of specific inventory items acquired or purchased prior to the physical inventory counting,
may provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the existence and condition of inventory.
A14. In other cases, however, it may not be possible to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the existence
and condition of inventory by performing alternative audit procedures. In such cases, SLAuS 705 requires the auditor
to modify the opinion in the auditor’s report as a result of the scope limitation.8
Inventory under the Custody and Control of a Third Party
Confirmation (Ref: Para. 8(a))
A15. SLAuS 5059 establishes requirements and provides guidance for performing external confirmation procedures.
Other Audit Procedures (Ref: Para. 8(b))
A16. Depending on the circumstances, for example where information is obtained that raises doubt about the integrity and
objectivity of the third party, the auditor may consider it appropriate to perform other audit procedures instead of, or
in addition to, confirmation with the third party. Examples of other audit procedures include:
* Attending, or arranging for another auditor to attend, the third party’s physical counting of inventory, if
practicable.
* Obtaining another auditor’s report, or a service auditor’s report, on the adequacy of the third party’s internal
control for ensuring that inventory is properly counted and adequately safeguarded.
* Inspecting documentation regarding inventory held by third parties, for example, warehouse receipts.
* Requesting confirmation from other parties when inventory has been pledged as collateral.
AUDITING
Litigation and Claims
Completeness of Litigations and Claims (Ref: Para. 9)
7 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph A48.
8 SLAuS 705, paragraph 13.
9 SLAuS 505, “External Confirmations.”

<!-- page 272 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
272A
A17. Litigation and claims involving the entity may have a material effect on the financial statements and thus may be
required to be disclosed or accounted for in the financial statements.
A18. In addition to the procedures identified in paragraph 9, other relevant procedures include, for example, using information
obtained through risk assessment procedures carried out as part of obtaining an understanding of the entity and its
environment to assist the auditor to become aware of litigation and claims involving the entity.
A19. Audit evidence obtained for purposes of identifying litigation and claims that may give rise to a risk of material
misstatement also may provide audit evidence regarding other relevant considerations, such as valuation or
measurement, regarding litigation and claims. SLAuS 54010 establishes requirements and provides guidance relevant
to the auditor’s consideration of litigation and claims requiring accounting estimates or related disclosures in the
financial statements.
Reviewing Legal Expense Accounts (Ref: Para. 9(c))
A20. Depending on the circumstances, the auditor may judge it appropriate to examine related source documents, such as
invoices for legal expenses, as part of the auditor’s review of legal expense accounts.
Communication with the Entity’ s External Legal Counsel (Ref: Para. 10-11)
A21. Direct communication with the entity’s external legal counsel assists the auditor in obtaining sufficient appropriate
audit evidence as to whether potentially material litigation and claims are known and management’s estimates of the
financial implications, including costs, are reasonable.
A22. In some cases, the auditor may seek direct communication with the entity’s external legal counsel through a letter of
general inquiry. For this purpose, a letter of general inquiry requests the entity’s external legal counsel to inform the
auditor of any litigation and claims that the counsel is aware of, together with an assessment of the outcome of the
litigation and claims, and an estimate of the financial implications, including costs involved.
A23. If it is considered unlikely that the entity’s external legal counsel will respond appropriately to a letter of general
inquiry, for example if the professional body to which the external legal counsel belongs prohibits response to such
a letter, the auditor may seek direct communication through a letter of specific inquiry. For this purpose, a letter of
specific inquiry includes :
(a) A list of litigation and claims ;
(b) Where available, management’s assessment of the outcome of each of the identified litigation and claims and its
estimate of the financial implications, including costs involved ; and
(c) A request that the entity’s external legal counsel confirm the reasonableness of management’s assessments
and provide the auditor with further information if the list is considered by the entity’s external legal counsel to
be incomplete or incorrect.
10 SLAuS 540, “Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures.”

<!-- page 273 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
273A
A24. In certain circumstances, the auditor also may judge it necessary to meet with the entity’s external legal counsel to
discuss the likely outcome of the litigation or claims. This may be the case, for example, where:
* The auditor determines that the matter is a significant risk.
* The matter is complex.
* There is disagreement between management and the entity’s external legal counsel.
Ordinarily, such meetings require management’s permission and are held with a representative of management in
attendance.
A25. In accordance with SLAuS 700,
11 the auditor is required to date the auditor’s report no earlier than the date on which
the auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the auditor’s opinion on the financial
statements. Audit evidence about the status of litigation and claims up to the date of the auditor’s report may be
obtained by inquiry of management, including in-house legal counsel, responsible for dealing with the relevant
matters. In some instances, the auditor may need to obtain updated information from the entity’s external legal
counsel.
Segment Information (Ref: Para. 13)
A26. Depending on the applicable financial reporting framework, the entity may be required or permitted to disclose
segment information in the financial statements. The auditor’s responsibility regarding the presentation and disclosure
of segment information is in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, the auditor is not
required to perform audit procedures that would be necessary to express an opinion on the segment information
presented on a stand alone basis.
Understanding of the Methods Used by Management (Ref: Para. 13(a))
A27. Depending on the circumstances, example of matters that may be relevant when obtaining an understanding of the
methods used by management in determining segment information and whether such methods are likely to result in
disclosure in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework include:
* Sales, transfers and charges between segments, and elimination of inter-segment amounts.
* Comparisons with budgets and other expected results, for example, operating profits as a percentage of sales.
* The allocation of assets and costs among segments.
* Consistency with prior periods, and the adequacy of the disclosures with respect to inconsistencies.
11 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements,” paragraph 41.

<!-- page 274 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
274A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  505
EXTERNAL CONFIRMATIONS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................ 1
External Confirmation Procedures to Obtain Audit Evidence  …......... 2-3
Effective Date ...................................................................................... 4
Objective ............................................................................................ 5
Definitions ........................................................................................... 6
Requirements
External Confirmation Procedures ...................................................... 7
Management’s Refusal to Allow the Auditor to Send a
Confirmation Request ................................................................... 8-9
Results of the External Confirmation Procedures ............................... 10-14
Negative Confirmations  ....................................................................... 15
Evaluating the Evidence Obtained ....................................................... 16
Application and Other Explanatory Material
External Confirmation Procedures  ...................................................... A1-A7
Management’s Refusal to Allow the Auditor to Send a
Confirmation  Request  ................................................................... A8-A10
Results of the External Confirmation Procedures ............................... A11-A22
Negative Confirmations  ....................................................................... A23
Evaluating the Evidence Obtained  ...................................................... A24-A25
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 505, “External Confirmations” should be read in
conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
UDITING
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s use of external confirmation procedures to obtain
audit evidence in accordance with the requirements of SLAuS 330
1 and SLAuS 500.2 It does not address inquiries
regarding litigation and claims, which are dealt with in SLAuS 501.3
1 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”
2 SLAuS 500, “Audit Evidence.”
3 SLAuS 501, “Audit Evidence—Specific Considerations for Selected Items.”

<!-- page 275 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
275A
External Confirmation Procedures to Obtain Audit Evidence
2. SLAuS 500 indicates that the reliability of audit evidence is influenced by its source and by its nature, and is
dependent on the individual circumstances under which it is obtained. 4 That SLAuS also includes the following
generalizations applicable to audit evidence :5
* Audit evidence is more reliable when it is obtained from independent sources outside the entity.
* Audit evidence obtained directly by the auditor is more reliable than audit evidence obtained indirectly or by
inference.
* Audit evidence is more reliable when it exists in documentary form, whether paper, electronic or other medium.
Accordingly, depending on the circumstances of the audit, audit evidence in the form of external confirmations
received directly by the auditor from confirming parties may be more reliable than evidence generated internally by
the entity. This SLAuS is intended to assist the auditor in designing and performing external confirmation procedures
to obtain relevant and reliable audit evidence.
3. Other SLAuSs recognize the importance of external confirmations as audit evidence, for example:
* SLAuS 330 discusses the auditor’s responsibility to design and implement overall responses to address the
assessed risks of material misstatement at the financial statement level, and to design and perform further audit
procedures whose nature, timing and extent are based on, and are responsive to, the assessed risks of material
misstatement at the assertion level.
6 In addition, SLAuS 330 requires that, irrespective of the assessed risks of
material misstatement, the auditor designs and performs substantive procedures for each material class of
transactions, account balance, and disclosure. The auditor is also required to consider whether external
confirmation procedures are to be performed as substantive audit procedures.
7
* SLAuS 330 requires that the auditor obtain more persuasive audit evidence the higher the auditor’s assessment
of risk.8 To do this, the auditor may increase the quantity of the evidence or obtain evidence that is more
relevant or reliable, or both. For example, the auditor may place more emphasis on obtaining evidence directly
from third parties or obtaining corroborating evidence from a number of independent sources. SLAuS 330 also
indicates that external confirmation procedures may assist the auditor in obtaining audit evidence with the high
level of reliability that the auditor requires to respond to significant risks of material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error.
9
* SLAuS 240 indicates that the auditor may design confirmation requests to obtain additional corroborative
information as a response to address the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud at the assertion
level.10
* SLAuS 500 indicates that corroborating information obtained from a source independent of the entity, such as
external confirmations, may increase the assurance the auditor obtains from evidence existing within the
accounting records or from representations made by management.
11
4 SLAuS 500, paragraph A5.
5 SLAuS 500, paragraph A31.
6 SLAuS 330, paragraphs 5-6.
7 SLAuS 330, paragraphs 18-19.
8 SLAuS 330, paragraph 7(b).
9 SLAuS 330, paragraph A53.
10 SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraph A37.
11 SLAuS 500, paragraphs A8-A9.

<!-- page 276 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
276A
Effective Date
4. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
5. The objective of the auditor, when using external confirmation procedures, is to design and perform such procedures
to obtain relevant and reliable audit evidence.
Definitions
6. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below :
(a) External confirmation – Audit evidence obtained as a direct written response to the auditor from a third party
(the confirming party), in paper form, or by electronic or other medium ;
(b) Positive confirmation request – A request that the confirming party respond directly to the auditor indicating
whether the confirming party agrees or disagrees with the information in the request, or providing the requested
information ;
(c) Negative confirmation request – A request that the confirming party respond directly to the auditor only if the
confirming party disagrees with the information provided in the request ;
(d) Non-response – A failure of the confirming party to respond, or fully respond, to a positive confirmation
request, or a confirmation request returned undelivered ;
(e) Exception – A response that indicates a difference between information requested to be confirmed, or contained
in the entity’s records, and information provided by the confirming party.
Requirements
External Confirmation Procedures
7. When using external confirmation procedures, the auditor shall maintain control over external confirmation requests,
including :
(a) Determining the information to be confirmed or requested ; (Ref: Para. A1)
(b) Selecting the appropriate confirming party ; (Ref: Para. A2)
(c) Designing the confirmation requests, including determining that requests are properly addressed and contain
return information for responses to be sent directly to the auditor ; and (Ref: Para. A3-A6)
(d) Sending the requests, including follow-up requests when applicable, to the confirming party. (Ref: Para. A7)
Management’s Refusal to Allow the Auditor to Send a Confirmation Request
8. If management refuses to allow the auditor to send a confirmation request, the auditor shall:
(a) Inquire as to management’s reasons for the refusal, and seek audit evidence as to their validity and
reasonableness; (Ref: Para. A8)
(b) Evaluate the implications of management’s refusal on the auditor’s assessment of the relevant risks of material
misstatement, including the risk of fraud, and on the nature, timing and extent of other audit procedures; and
(Ref: Para. A9)
(c) Perform alternative audit procedures designed to obtain relevant and reliable audit evidence. (Ref: Para. A10)

<!-- page 277 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
277A
9. If the auditor concludes that management’s refusal to allow the auditor to send a confirmation request is unreasonable,
or the auditor is unable to obtain relevant and reliable audit evidence from alternative audit procedures, the auditor
shall communicate with those charged with governance in accordance with SLAuS 260.
12 The auditor also shall
determine the implications for the audit and the auditor’s opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705.13
Results of the External Confirmation Procedures
Reliability of Responses to Confirmation Requests
10. If the auditor identifies factors that give rise to doubts about the reliability of the response to a confirmation request,
the auditor shall obtain further audit evidence to resolve those doubts. (Ref: Para. A11-A16)
11. If the auditor determines that a response to a confirmation request is not reliable, the auditor shall evaluate the
implications on the assessment of the relevant risks of material misstatement, including the risk of fraud, and on the
related nature, timing and extent of other audit procedures. (Ref: Para. A17)
Non-Responses
12. In the case of each non-response, the auditor shall perform alternative audit procedures to obtain relevant and
reliable audit evidence. (Ref: Para A18-A19)
When a Response to a Positive Confirmation Request Is Necessary to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence
13. If the auditor has determined that a response to a positive confirmation request is necessary to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence, alternative audit procedures will not provide the audit evidence the auditor requires. If
the auditor does not obtain such confirmation, the auditor shall determine the implications for the audit and the
auditor’s opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705. (Ref: Para A20)
UDITING
Exceptions
14. The auditor shall investigate exceptions to determine whether or not they are indicative of misstatements. (Ref: Para.
A21-A22)
Negative Confirmations
15. Negative confirmations provide less persuasive audit evidence than positive confirmations. Accordingly, the auditor
shall not use negative confirmation requests as the sole substantive audit procedure to address an assessed risk of
material misstatement at the assertion level unless all of the following are present : (Ref: Para. A23)
(a) The auditor has assessed the risk of material misstatement as low and has obtained sufficient appropriate audit
evidence regarding the operating effectiveness of controls relevant to the assertion;
(b) The population of items subject to negative confirmation procedures comprises a large number of small,
homogeneous, account balances, transactions or conditions;
(c) A very low exception rate is expected; and
(d) The auditor is not aware of circumstances or conditions that would cause recipients of negative confirmation
requests to disregard such requests.
12 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 16.
13 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”

<!-- page 278 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
278A
Evaluating the Evidence Obtained
16. The auditor shall evaluate whether the results of the external confirmation procedures provide relevant and reliable
audit evidence, or whether further audit evidence is necessary. (Ref: Para A24-A25)
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
External Confirmation Procedures
Determining the Information to Be Confirmed or Requested (Ref: Para. 7(a))
A1. External confirmation procedures frequently are performed to confirm or request information regarding account
balances and their elements. They may also be used to confirm terms of agreements, contracts, or transactions
between an entity and other parties, or to confirm the absence of certain conditions, such as a “side agreement.”
Selecting the Appropriate Confirming Party  (Ref: Para. 7(b))
A2. Responses to confirmation requests provide more relevant and reliable audit evidence when confirmation requests
are sent to a confirming party the auditor believes is knowledgeable about the information to be confirmed. For
example, a financial institution official who is knowledgeable about the transactions or arrangements for which
confirmation is requested may be the most appropriate person at the financial institution from whom to request
confirmation.
Designing Confirmation Requests (Ref: Para. 7(c))
A3. The design of a confirmation request may directly affect the confirmation response rate, and the reliability and the
nature of the audit evidence obtained from responses.
A4. Factors to consider when designing confirmation requests include:
* The assertions being addressed.
* Specific identified risks of material misstatement, including fraud risks.
* The layout and presentation of the confirmation request.
* Prior experience on the audit or similar engagements.
* The method of communication (for example, in paper form, or by electronic or other medium).
* Management’s authorization or encouragement to the confirming parties to respond to the auditor. Confirming
parties may only be willing to respond to a confirmation request containing management’s authorization.
* The ability of the intended confirming party to confirm or provide the requested information (for example,
individual invoice amount versus total balance).
A5. A positive external confirmation request asks the confirming party to reply to the auditor in all cases, either by
indicating the confirming party’s agreement with the given information, or by asking the confirming party to provide
information. A response to a positive confirmation request ordinarily is expected to provide reliable audit evidence.
There is a risk, however, that a confirming party may reply to the confirmation request without verifying that the

<!-- page 279 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
279A
information is correct. The auditor may reduce this risk by using positive confirmation requests that do not state the
amount (or other information) on the confirmation request, and ask the confirming party to fill in the amount or furnish
other information. On the other hand, use of this type of “blank” confirmation request may result in lower response
rates because additional effort is required of the confirming parties.
AUDITING
A6. Determining that requests are properly addressed includes testing the validity of some or all of the addresses on
confirmation requests before they are sent out.
Follow-Up on Confirmation Requests (Ref: Para. 7(d))
A7. The auditor may send an additional confirmation request when a reply to a previous request has not been received
within a reasonable time. For example, the auditor may, having re-verified the accuracy of the original address, send
an additional or follow-up request.
Management’s Refusal to Allow the Auditor to Send a Confirmation Request
Reasonableness of Management’ s Refusal (Ref: Para. 8(a))
A8. A refusal by management to allow the auditor to send a confirmation request is a limitation on the audit evidence the
auditor may wish to obtain. The auditor is therefore required to inquire as to the reasons for the limitation. A common
reason advanced is the existence of a legal dispute or ongoing negotiation with the intended confirming party, the
resolution of which may be affected by an untimely confirmation request. The auditor is required to seek audit
evidence as to the validity and reasonableness of the reasons because of the risk that management may be attempting
to deny the auditor access to audit evidence that may reveal fraud or error.
Implications for the Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement (Ref: Para. 8(b))
A9. The auditor may conclude from the evaluation in paragraph 8(b) that it would be appropriate to revise the assessment
of the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level and modify planned audit procedures in accordance with
SLAuS 315.
14 For example, if management’s request to not confirm is unreasonable, this may indicate a fraud risk
factor that requires evaluation in accordance with SLAuS 240.15
Alternative Audit Procedures (Ref: Para. 8(c))
A10. The alternative audit procedures performed may be similar to those appropriate for a non-response as set out in
paragraphs A18-A19 of this SLAuS. Such procedures also would take account of the results of the auditor’s evaluation
in paragraph 8(b) of this SLAuS.
Results of the External Confirmation Procedures
Reliability of Responses to Confirmation Requests (Ref: Para. 10)
A11. SLAuS 500 indicates that even when audit evidence is obtained from sources external to the entity, circumstances
may exist that affect its reliability.
16 All responses carry some risk of interception, alteration or fraud. Such risk exists
regardless of whether a response is obtained in paper form, or by electronic or other medium. Factors that may indicate
doubts about the reliability of a response include that it:
* Was received by the auditor indirectly; or
* Appeared not to come from the originally intended confirming party.
14 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment,”
paragraph 31.
15 SLAuS 240, paragraph 24.
16 SLAuS 500, paragraph A31.

<!-- page 280 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
280A
A12. Responses received electronically, for example by facsimile or electronic mail, involve risks as to reliability because
proof of origin and authority of the respondent may be difficult to establish, and alterations may be difficult to detect.
A process used by the auditor and the respondent that creates a secure environment for responses received
electronically may mitigate these risks. If the auditor is satisfied that such a process is secure and properly controlled,
the reliability of the related responses is enhanced. An electronic confirmation process might incorporate various
techniques for validating the identity of a sender of information in electronic form, for example, through the use of
encryption, electronic digital signatures, and procedures to verify web site authenticity.
A13. If a confirming party uses a third party to coordinate and provide responses to confirmation requests, the auditor may
perform procedures to address the risks that :
(a) The response may not be from the proper source ;
(b) A respondent may not be authorized to respond ; and
(c) The integrity of the transmission may have been compromised.
A14. The auditor is required by SLAuS 500 to determine whether to modify or add procedures to resolve doubts over the
reliability of information to be used as audit evidence.
17 The auditor may choose to verify the source and contents of
a response to a confirmation request by contacting the confirming party. For example, when a confirming party
responds by electronic mail, the auditor may telephone the confirming party to determine whether the confirming
party did, in fact, send the response. When a response has been returned to the auditor indirectly (for example,
because the confirming party incorrectly addressed it to the entity rather than to the auditor), the auditor may request
the confirming party to respond in writing directly to the auditor.
A15. On its own, an oral response to a confirmation request does not meet the definition of an external confirmation
because it is not a direct written response to the auditor. However, upon obtaining an oral response to a confirmation
request, the auditor may, depending on the circumstances, request the confirming party to respond in writing directly
to the auditor. If no such response is received, in accordance with paragraph 12, the auditor seeks other audit
evidence to support the information in the oral response.
A16. A response to a confirmation request may contain restrictive language regarding its use. Such restrictions do not
necessarily invalidate the reliability of the response as audit evidence.
Unreliable Responses (Ref: Para. 11)
A17. When the auditor concludes that a response is unreliable, the auditor may need to revise the assessment of the risks
of material misstatement at the assertion level and modify planned audit procedures accordingly, in accordance with
SLAuS 315.
18 For example, an unreliable response may indicate a fraud risk factor that requires evaluation in accordance
with SLAuS 240.19
Non-Responses (Ref: Para. 12)
A18. Examples of alternative audit procedures the auditor may perform include:
* For accounts receivable balances – examining specific subsequent cash receipts, shipping documentation, and
sales near the period-end.
* For accounts payable balances – examining subsequent cash disbursements or correspondence from third
parties, and other records, such as goods received notes.
17 SLAuS 500, paragraph 11.
18 SLAuS 315, paragraph 31.
19 SLAuS 240, paragraph 24.

<!-- page 281 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
281A
A19. The nature and extent of alternative audit procedures are affected by the account and assertion in question. A non-
response to a confirmation request may indicate a previously unidentified risk of material misstatement. In such
situations, the auditor may need to revise the assessed risk of material misstatement at the assertion level, and modify
planned audit procedures, in accordance with SLAuS 315.
20 For example, fewer responses to confirmation requests
than anticipated, or a greater number of responses than anticipated, may indicate a previously unidentified fraud risk
factor that requires evaluation in accordance with SLAuS 240.21
When a Response to a Positive Confirmation Request Is Necessary to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence
(Ref. Para. 13)
A20. In certain circumstances, the auditor may identify an assessed risk of material misstatement at the assertion level for
which a response to a positive confirmation request is necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
Such circumstances may include where:
* The information available to corroborate management’s assertion(s) is only available outside the entity.
* Specific fraud risk factors, such as the risk of management override of controls, or the risk of collusion which
can involve employee(s) and/or management, prevent the auditor from relying on evidence from the entity.
Exceptions (Ref: Para. 14)
A21. Exceptions noted in responses to confirmation requests may indicate misstatements or potential misstatements in the
financial statements. When a misstatement is identified, the auditor is required by SLAuS 240 to evaluate whether
such misstatement is indicative of fraud.
22 Exceptions may provide a guide to the quality of responses from similar
confirming parties or for similar accounts. Exceptions also may indicate a deficiency, or deficiencies, in the entity’s
internal control over financial reporting.
A22. Some exceptions do not represent misstatements. For example, the auditor may conclude that differences in responses
to confirmation requests are due to timing, measurement, or clerical errors in the external confirmation procedures.
Negative Confirmations (Ref: Para. 15)
A23. The failure to receive a response to a negative confirmation request does not explicitly indicate receipt by the
intended confirming party of the confirmation request or verification of the accuracy of the information contained in
the request. Accordingly, a failure of a confirming party to respond to a negative confirmation request provides
significantly less persuasive audit evidence than does a response to a positive confirmation request. Confirming
parties also may be more likely to respond indicating their disagreement with a confirmation request when the
information in the request is not in their favor, and less likely to respond otherwise. For example, holders of bank
deposit accounts may be more likely to respond if they believe that the balance in their account is understated in the
confirmation request, but may be less likely to respond when they believe the balance is overstated. Therefore,
sending negative confirmation requests to holders of bank deposit accounts may be a useful procedure in considering
whether such balances may be understated, but is unlikely to be effective if the auditor is seeking evidence regarding
overstatement.
20 SLAuS 315, paragraph 31.
21 SLAuS 240, paragraph 24.
22  SLAuS 240, paragraph 35.

<!-- page 282 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
282A
Evaluating the Evidence Obtained (Ref: Para. 16)
A24. When evaluating the results of individual external confirmation requests, the auditor may categorize such results as
follows :
(a) A response by the appropriate confirming party indicating agreement with the information provided in the
confirmation request, or providing requested information without exception ;
(b) A response deemed unreliable ;
(c) A non-response ; or
(d) A response indicating an exception.
A25. The auditor’s evaluation, when taken into account with other audit procedures the auditor may have performed, may
assist the auditor in concluding whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained or whether further
audit evidence is necessary, as required by SLAuS 330.
23
SRI  LANKA AUDITING  STANDARD  510
INITIAL  AUDIT  ENGAGEMENTS—OPENING  BALANCES
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS  ............................................................................ 1
Effective Date ....................................................................................... 2
Objective  ............................................................................................. 3
Definitions  ........................................................................................... 4
Requirements
Audit Procedures  ................................................................................. 5 - 9
Audit Conclusions and Reporting  ........................................................ 10 - 13
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Audit Procedures  .................................................................................. A1 - A7
Audit Conclusions and Reporting  ........................................................ A8 - A9
Appendix: Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports with Modified Opinions
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 510, “Initial Audit Engagements— Opening Balances”
should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
23 SLAuS 330, paragraphs 26-27.

<!-- page 283 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
283A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to opening balances in an
initial audit engagement. In addition to financial statement amounts, opening balances include matters requiring
disclosure that existed at the beginning of the period, such as contingencies and commitments. When the financial
statements include comparative financial information, the requirements and guidance in SLAuS 710
1 also apply.
SLAuS 3002 includes additional requirements and guidance regarding activities prior to starting an initial audit.
Effective Date
2. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
3. In conducting an initial audit engagement, the objective of the auditor with respect to opening balances is to
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about whether :
(a) Opening balances contain misstatements that materially affect the current period’s financial statements ; and
(b) Appropriate accounting policies reflected in the opening balances have been consistently applied in the
current period’s financial statements, or changes thereto are appropriately accounted for and adequately
presented and disclosed in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
Definitions
4. For the purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below :
(a) Initial audit engagement – An engagement in which either :
(i) The financial statements for the prior period were not audited ; or
(ii) The financial statements for the prior period were audited by a predecessor auditor.
 (b) Opening balances – Those account balances that exist at the beginning of the period. Opening balances are
based upon the closing balances of the prior period and reflect the effects of transactions and events of prior
periods and accounting policies applied in the prior period. Opening balances also include matters requiring
disclosure that existed at the beginning of the period, such as contingencies and commitments.
(c) Predecessor auditor – The auditor from a different audit firm, who audited the financial statements of an entity
in the prior period and who has been replaced by the current auditor.
Requirements
Audit Procedures
Opening Balances
5. The auditor shall read the most recent financial statements, if any, and the predecessor auditor’s report thereon, if any,
for information relevant to opening balances, including disclosures.
1 SLAuS 710, “Comparative Information — Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements.”
2 SLAuS 300, “Planning an Audit of Financial Statements.”
5 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”

<!-- page 284 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
284A
6. The auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about whether the opening balances contain
misstatements that materially affect the current period’s financial statements by : (Ref: Para. A1–A2)
(a) Determining whether the prior period’s closing balances have been correctly brought forward to the current
period or, when appropriate, have been restated ;
(b) Determining whether the opening balances reflect the application of appropriate accounting policies ; and
(c) Performing one or more of the following : (Ref: Para. A3–A7)
(i) Where the prior year financial statements were audited, reviewing the predecessor auditor’s working
papers to obtain evidence regarding the opening balances;
(ii) Evaluating whether audit procedures performed in the current period provide evidence relevant to the
opening balances; or
(iii) Performing specific audit procedures to obtain evidence regarding the opening balances.
7. If the auditor obtains audit evidence that the opening balances contain misstatements that could materially affect the
current period’s financial statements, the auditor shall perform such additional audit procedures as are appropriate in
the circumstances to determine the effect on the current period’s financial statements. If the auditor concludes that
such misstatements exist in the current period’s financial statements, the auditor shall communicate the misstatements
with the appropriate level of management and those charged with governance in accordance with SLAuS 450.
3
Consistency of Accounting Policies
8. The auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about whether the accounting policies reflected in the
opening balances have been consistently applied in the current period’s financial statements, and whether changes
in the accounting policies have been appropriately accounted for and adequately presented and disclosed in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework.
Relevant Information in the Predecessor Auditor’ s Report
9. If the prior period’s financial statements were audited by a predecessor auditor and there was a modification to the
opinion, the auditor shall evaluate the effect of the matter giving rise to the modification in assessing the risks of
material misstatement in the current period’s financial statements in accordance with SLAuS 315.
4
Audit Conclusions and Reporting
Opening Balances
10. If the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the opening balances, the auditor
shall express a qualified opinion or disclaim an opinion on the financial statements, as appropriate, in accordance
with SLAuS 705.
5 (Ref: Para. A8)
11. If the auditor concludes that the opening balances contain a misstatement that materially affects the current period’s
financial statements, and the effect of the misstatement is not appropriately accounted for or not adequately presented
or disclosed, the auditor shall express a qualified opinion or an adverse opinion, as appropriate, in accordance with
SLAuS 705.
3 SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit,” paragraphs 8 and 12.
4 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and ItsEnvironment.”
5 SLAuS 705, "Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor's Report."

<!-- page 285 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
285A
Consistency of Accounting Policies
12. If the auditor concludes that :
(a) the current period’s accounting policies are not consistently applied in relation to opening balances in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework ; or
(b) a change in accounting policies is not appropriately accounted for or not adequately presented or disclosed in
accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework,
the auditor shall express a qualified opinion or an adverse opinion as appropriate in accordance with SLAuS 705.
Modification to the Opinion in the Predecessor Auditor’ s Report
13. If the predecessor auditor’s opinion regarding the prior period’s financial statements included a modification to the
auditor’s opinion that remains relevant and material to the current period’s financial statements, the auditor shall
modify the auditor’s opinion on the current period’s financial statements in accordance with SLAuS 705 and SLAuS
710. (Ref: Para. A9)
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Audit Procedures
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities (Ref: Para. 6)
A1. In the public sector, there may be legal or regulatory limitations on the information that the current auditor can obtain
from a predecessor auditor. For example, if a public sector entity that has previously been audited by a statutorily
appointed auditor (for example, an Auditor General, or other suitably qualified person appointed on behalf of the
Auditor General) is privatized, the amount of access to working papers or other information that the statutorily
appointed auditor can provide a newly-appointed auditor that is in the private sector may be constrained by privacy
or secrecy laws or regulations. In situations where such communications are constrained, audit evidence may need to
be obtained through other means and, if sufficient appropriate audit evidence cannot be obtained, consideration
given to the effect on the auditor’s opinion.
A2. If the statutorily appointed auditor outsources an audit of a public sector entity to a private sector audit firm, and the
statutorily appointed auditor appoints an audit firm other than the firm that audited the financial statements of the
public sector entity in the prior period, this is not usually regarded as a change in auditors for the statutorily
appointed auditor. Depending on the nature of the outsourcing arrangement, however, the audit engagement may be
considered an initial audit engagement from the perspective of the private sector auditor in fulfilling their
responsibilities, and therefore this SLAuS applies.
AUDITING
Opening Balances (Ref: Para. 6(c))
A3. The nature and extent of audit procedures necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding
opening balances depend on such matters as:
* The accounting policies followed by the entity.
* The nature of the account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures and the risks of material misstatement
in the current period’s financial statements.

<!-- page 286 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
286A
* The significance of the opening balances relative to the current period’s financial statements.
*  Whether the prior period’s financial statements were audited and, if so, whether the predecessor auditor’s opinion
was modified.
A4. If the prior period’s financial statements were audited by a predecessor auditor, the auditor may be able to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the opening balances by reviewing the predecessor auditor’s working
papers. Whether such a review provides sufficient appropriate audit evidence is influenced by the professional
competence and independence of the predecessor auditor.
A5. Relevant ethical and professional requirements guide the current auditor’s communications with the predecessor
auditor.
A6. For current assets and liabilities, some audit evidence about opening balances may be obtained as part of the current
period’s audit procedures. For example, the collection (payment) of opening accounts receivable (accounts payable)
during the current period will provide some audit evidence of their existence, rights and obligations, completeness
and valuation at the beginning of the period. In the case of inventories, however, the current period’s audit procedures
on the closing inventory balance provide little audit evidence regarding inventory on hand at the beginning of the
period. Therefore, additional audit procedures may be necessary, and one or more of the following may provide
sufficient appropriate audit evidence:
* Observing a current physical inventory count and reconciling it to the opening inventory quantities.
* Performing audit procedures on the valuation of the opening inventory items.
* Performing audit procedures on gross profit and cutoff.
A7. For non-current assets and liabilities, such as property plant and equipment, investments and long-term debt, some
audit evidence may be obtained by examining the accounting records and other information underlying the opening
balances. In certain cases, the auditor may be able to obtain some audit evidence regarding opening balances through
confirmation with third parties, for example, for long-term debt and investments. In other cases, the auditor may need
to carry out additional audit procedures.
Audit Conclusions and Reporting
Opening Balances (Ref: Para. 10)
A8. SLAuS 705 establishes requirements and provides guidance on circumstances that may result in a modification to the
auditor’s opinion on the financial statements, the type of opinion appropriate in the circumstances, and the content
of the auditor’s report when the auditor’s opinion is modified. The inability of the auditor to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence regarding opening balances may result in one of the following modifications to the
opinion in the auditor’s report:
(a) A qualified opinion or a disclaimer of opinion, as is appropriate in the circumstances; or
(b) Unless prohibited by law or regulation, an opinion which is qualified or disclaimed, as appropriate, regarding
the results of operations, and cash flows, where relevant, and unmodified regarding financial position.
The Appendix includes illustrative auditors’ reports.
Modification to the Opinion in the Predecessor Auditor’ s Report (Ref: Para. 13)
A9. In some situations, a modification to the predecessor auditor’s opinion may not be relevant and material to the
opinion on the current period’s financial statements. This may be the case where, for example, there was a scope
limitation in the prior period, but the matter giving rise to the scope limitation has been resolved in the current period.

<!-- page 287 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
287A
Appendix
(Ref: Para. A8)
Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports with Modified Opinions
Illustration 1:
Circumstances described in paragraph A8(a) include the following:
* The auditor did not observe the counting of the physical inventory at the beginning of the current period and
was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the opening balances of inventory.
* The possible effects of the inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding opening balances
of inventory are deemed to be material but not pervasive to the entity’s financial performance and cash flows.
6
* The financial position at year end is fairly presented.
* In this particular jurisdiction, law and regulation prohibit the auditor from giving an opinion which is
qualified regarding the financial performance and cash flows and unmodified regarding financial position.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Financial Statements
7
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then
ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
8 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, 9 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
6 If the possible effects, in the auditor’s judgment, are considered to be material and pervasive to the entity’s financial perfo rmance and
cash flows, the auditor would disclaim an opinion on the financial performance and cash flows.
7 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on  Other Legal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
8 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
9 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read:“Management is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, andfor such ...”

<!-- page 288 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
288A
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation 10 of the financial statements in order to
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
11 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of
the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
qualified audit opinion.
Basis for Qualified Opinion
We were appointed as auditors of the company on June 30, 20X1 and thus did not observe the counting of the
physical inventories at the beginning of the year. We were unable to satisfy ourselves by alternative means concerning
inventory quantities held at December 31, 20X0. Since opening inventories enter into the determination of the financial
performance and cash flows, we were unable to determine whether adjustments might have been necessary in respect of
the profit for the year reported in the income statement and the net cash flows from operating activities reported in the
cash flow statement.
Qualified Opinion
In our opinion, except for the possible effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion
paragraph, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair view of) the financial
position of ABC Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then
ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Other Matter
The financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X0 were audited by another
auditor who expressed an unmodified opinion on those statements on March 31, 20X1.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other
reporting responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
10 In the case of footnote 9, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevantto the
entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are approp riate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.”
11 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control inconj unction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to d esign audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 9, this may read: “In making those risk assessme nts,
the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair v iew in order
to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 289 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
289A
Illustration 2:
Circumstances described in paragraph A8(b) include the following:
* The auditor did not observe the counting of the physical inventory at the beginning of the current period and was
unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the opening balances of inventory.
* The possible effects of the inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding opening balances
of inventory are deemed to be material but not pervasive to the entity’s financial performance and cash flows.12
* The financial position at year end is fairly presented.
* An opinion that is qualified regarding the financial performance and cash flows and unmodified regarding
financial position is considered appropriate in the circumstances.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Financial Statements
13
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then
ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
14 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,15 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
AUDITING
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
16 of the financial statements in order to
12 If the possible effects, in the auditor’s judgment, are considered to be material and pervasive to the entity’s financial perfo rmance and
cash flows, the auditor would disclaim the opinion on the financial performance and cash flows.
13 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other L egal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
14 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
15 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such ...”
16 In the case of footnote 15, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entitys preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropr iate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.”

<!-- page 290 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
290A
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.17 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of
the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
unmodified opinion on the financial position and our qualified audit opinion on the financial performance and cash flows.
Basis for Qualified Opinion on the Financial Performance and Cash Flows
We were appointed as auditors of the company on June 30, 20X1 and thus did not observe the counting of the
physical inventories at the beginning of the year. We were unable to satisfy ourselves by alternative means concerning
inventory quantities held at December 31, 20X0. Since opening inventories enter into the determination of the financial
performance and cash flows, we were unable to determine whether adjustments might have been necessary in respect of
the profit for the year reported in the income statement and the net cash flows from operating activities reported in the
cash flow statement.
Qualified Opinion on the Financial Performance and Cash Flows
In our opinion, except for the possible effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion
paragraph, the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement present fairly, in all material respects (or give a true and fair
view of) the financial performance and cash flows of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1 in accordance
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Opinion on the financial position
In our opinion, the balance sheet presents fairly, in all material respects (or gives a true and fair view of) the
financial position of ABC Company as at December 31, 20X1 in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Other Matter
The financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X0 were audited by another
auditor who expressed an unmodified opinion on those statements on March 31, 20X1.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other
reporting responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
17 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to d esign audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 15, this may read: “In making those risk assessm ents,
the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair v iew in order
to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 291 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
291A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  520
ANALYTICAL PROCEDURES
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................................................................................ 1
Effective Date........................................................................................................................................................ 2
Objectives ............................................................................................................................................................. 3
Definition .............................................................................................................................................................. 4
Requirements
Substantive Analytical Procedures .................................................................................................................... 5
Analytical Procedures that Assist When Forming an Overall
Conclusion ............................................................................................................................................................ 6
Investigating Results of Analytical Procedures .............................................................................................. 7
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Definition of Analytical Procedures ................................................................................................................. A1-A3
Substantive Analytical Procedures .................................................................................................................... A4-A16
Analytical Procedures that Assist When Forming an
Overall Conclusion  ............................................................................................................................................... A17-A19
Investigating Results of Analytical procedures ……...........................................................………………... A20-A21
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 520, “Analytical Procedures” should be read in
conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct
of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s use of analytical procedures as substantive
procedures (“substantive analytical procedures”). It also deals with the auditor’s responsibility to perform analytical
procedures near the end of the audit that assist the auditor when forming an overall conclusion on the financial
statements. SLAuS 315
1 deals with the use of analytical procedures as risk assessment procedures. SLAuS 330
includes requirements and guidance regarding the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures in response to
assessed risks; these audit procedures may include substantive analytical procedures.
2
Effective Date
2. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
1 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment,”
paragraph 6(b).
2 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Reponses to Assessed Risks,” paragraphs 6 and 18.

<!-- page 292 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
292A
Objectives
3. The objectives of the auditor are:
(a) To obtain relevant and reliable audit evidence when using substantive analytical procedures; and
(b) To design and perform analytical procedures near the end of the audit that assist the auditor when forming an
overall conclusion as to whether the financial statements are consistent with the auditor’s understanding of the
entity.
Definition
4. For the purposes of the SLAuSs, the term “analytical procedures” means evaluations of financial information through
analysis of plausible relationships among both financial and non-financial data. Analytical procedures also encompass
such investigation as is necessary of identified fluctuations or relationships that are inconsistent with other relevant
information or that differ from expected values by a significant amount. (Ref: Para. A1-A3)
Requirements
Substantive Analytical Procedures
5. When designing and performing substantive analytical procedures, either alone or in combination with tests of
details, as substantive procedures in  accordance with SLAuS 330,
3 the auditor shall: (Ref: Para. A4-A5)
(a) Determine the suitability of particular substantive analytical procedures for given assertions, taking account of
the assessed risks of material misstatement and tests of details, if any, for these assertions; (Ref: Para. A6-A11)
(b) Evaluate the reliability of data from which the auditor’s expectation of recorded amounts or ratios is developed,
taking account of source, comparability, and nature and relevance of information available, and controls over
preparation; (Ref: Para. A12-A14)
(c) Develop an expectation of recorded amounts or ratios and evaluate whether the expectation is sufficiently
precise to identify a misstatement that, individually or when aggregated with other misstatements, may cause
the financial statements to be materially misstated; and (Ref: Para. A15)
(d) Determine the amount of any difference of recorded amounts from expected values that is acceptable without
further investigation as required by paragraph 7. (Ref: Para. A16)
Analytical Procedures that Assist When Forming an Overall Conclusion
6. The auditor shall design and perform analytical procedures near the end of the audit that assist the auditor when
forming an overall conclusion as to whether the financial statements are consistent with the auditor’s understanding
of the entity. (Ref: Para. A17-A19)
Investigating Results of Analytical Procedures
7. If analytical procedures performed in accordance with this SLAuS identify fluctuations or relationships that are
inconsistent with other relevant information or that differ from expected values by a significant amount, the auditor
shall investigate such differences by:
3 SLAuS 330, paragraph 18.

<!-- page 293 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
293A
(a) Inquiring of management and obtaining appropriate audit evidence relevant to management’s responses; and
(b) Performing other audit procedures as necessary in the circumstances. (Ref: Para. A20-A21)
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Definition of Analytical Procedures (Ref: Para. 4)
A1. Analytical procedures include the consideration of comparisons of the entity’s financial information with, for example:
* Comparable information for prior periods.
* Anticipated results of the entity, such as budgets or forecasts, or expectations of the auditor, such as an
estimation of depreciation.
* Similar industry information, such as a comparison of the entity’s ratio of sales to accounts receivable with
industry averages or with other entities of comparable size in the same industry.
A2. Analytical procedures also include consideration of relationships, for example:
* Among elements of financial information that would be expected to conform to a predictable pattern based on
the entity’s experience, such as gross margin percentages.
* Between financial information and relevant non-financial information, such as payroll costs to number of
employees.
A3. Various methods may be used to perform analytical procedures. These methods range from performing simple
comparisons to performing complex analyses using advanced statistical techniques. Analytical procedures may be
applied to consolidated financial statements, components and individual elements of information.
Substantive Analytical Procedures (Ref: Para. 5)
A4. The auditor’s substantive procedures at the assertion level may be tests of details, substantive analytical procedures,
or a combination of both. The decision about which audit procedures to perform, including whether to use substantive
analytical procedures, is based on the auditor’s judgment about the expected effectiveness and efficiency of the
available audit procedures to reduce audit risk at the assertion level to an acceptably low level.
A5. The auditor may inquire of management as to the availability and reliability of information needed to apply substantive
analytical procedures, and the results of any such analytical procedures performed by the entity. It may be effective
to use analytical data prepared by management, provided the auditor is satisfied that such data is properly prepared.
Suitability of Particular Analytical Procedures for Given Assertions (Ref: Para. 5(a))
A6. Substantive analytical procedures are generally more applicable to large volumes of transactions that tend to be
predictable over time. The application of planned analytical procedures is based on the expectation that relationships
among data exist and continue in the absence of known conditions to the contrary. However, the suitability of a
particular analytical procedure will depend upon the auditor’s assessment of how effective it will be in detecting a
misstatement that, individually or when aggregated with other misstatements, may cause the financial statements to
be materially misstated.

<!-- page 294 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
294A
A7. In some cases, even an unsophisticated predictive model may be effective as an analytical procedure. For example,
where an entity has a known number of employees at fixed rates of pay throughout the period, it may be possible for
the auditor to use this data to estimate the total payroll costs for the period with a high degree of accuracy, thereby
providing audit evidence for a significant item in the financial statements and reducing the need to perform tests of
details on the payroll. The use of widely recognized trade ratios (such as profit margins for different types of retail
entities) can often be used effectively in substantive analytical procedures to provide evidence to support the
reasonableness of recorded amounts.
A8. Different types of analytical procedures provide different levels of assurance. Analytical procedures involving, for
example, the prediction of total rental income on a building divided into apartments, taking the rental rates, the number
of apartments and vacancy rates into consideration, can provide persuasive evidence and may eliminate the need for
further verification by means of tests of details, provided the elements are appropriately verified. In contrast, calculation
and comparison of gross margin percentages as a means of confirming a revenue figure may provide less persuasive
evidence, but may provide useful corroboration if used in combination with other audit procedures.
A9. The determination of the suitability of particular substantive analytical procedures is influenced by the nature of the
assertion and the auditor’s assessment of the risk of material misstatement. For example, if controls over sales order
processing are deficient, the auditor may place more reliance on tests of details rather than on substantive analytical
procedures for assertions related to receivables.
A10. Particular substantive analytical procedures may also be considered suitable when tests of details are performed on
the same assertion. For example, when obtaining audit evidence regarding the valuation assertion for accounts
receivable balances, the auditor may apply analytical procedures to an aging of customers’ accounts in addition to
performing tests of details on subsequent cash receipts to determine the collectability of the receivables.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A11. The relationships between individual financial statement items traditionally considered in the audit of business
entities may not always be relevant in the audit of governments or other non-business public sector entities; for
example, in many public sector entities there may be little direct relationship between revenue and expenditure. In
addition, because expenditure on the acquisition of assets may not be capitalized, there may be no relationship
between expenditures on, for example, inventories and fixed assets and the amount of those assets reported in the
financial statements. Also, industry data or statistics for comparative purposes may not be available in the public
sector. However, other relationships may be relevant, for example, variations in the cost per kilometer of road
construction or the number of vehicles acquired compared with vehicles retired.
The Reliability of the Data (Ref: Para. 5(b))
A12. The reliability of data is influenced by its source and nature and is dependent on the circumstances under which it is
obtained. Accordingly, the following are relevant when determining whether data is reliable for purposes of designing
substantive analytical procedures:
(a) Source of the information available. For example, information may be more reliable when it is obtained from
independent sources outside the entity;
4
(b) Comparability of the information available. For example, broad industry data may need to be supplemented
to be comparable to that of an entity that produces and sells specialized products;
4 SLAuS 500, “Audit Evidence” paragraph A31.

<!-- page 295 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
295A
(c) Nature and relevance of the information available. For example, whether budgets have been established as
results to be expected rather than as goals to be achieved; and
(d) Controls over the preparation of the information that are designed to ensure its completeness, accuracy and
validity. For example, controls over the preparation, review and maintenance of budgets.
A13. The auditor may consider testing the operating effectiveness of controls, if any, over the entity’s preparation of
information used by the auditor in performing substantive analytical procedures in response to assessed risks. When
such controls are effective, the auditor generally has greater confidence in the reliability of the information and,
therefore, in the results of analytical procedures. The operating effectiveness of controls over non--financial information
may often be tested in conjunction with other tests of controls. For example, in establishing controls over the
processing of sales invoices, an entity may include controls over the recording of unit sales. In these circumstances,
the auditor may test the operating effectiveness of controls over the recording of unit sales in conjunction with tests
of the operating effectiveness of controls over the processing of sales invoices. Alternatively, the auditor may
consider whether the information was subjected to audit testing. SLAuS 500 establishes requirements and provides
guidance in determining the audit procedures to be performed on the information to be used for substantive analytical
procedures.
5
A14. The matters discussed in paragraphs A12(a)-A12(d) are relevant irrespective of whether the auditor performs
substantive analytical procedures on the entity’s period end financial statements, or at an interim date and plans to
perform substantive analytical procedures for the remaining period. SLAuS 330 establishes requirements and provides
guidance on substantive procedures performed at an interim date.
6
Evaluation Whether the Expectation Is Sufficiently Precise (Ref: Para. 5(c))
A15. Matters relevant to the auditor’s evaluation of whether the expectation can be developed sufficiently precisely to
identify a misstatement that, when aggregated with other misstatements, may cause the financial statements to be
materially misstated, include:
· The accuracy with which the expected results of substantive analytical procedures can be predicted. For example, the
auditor may expect greater consistency in comparing gross profit margins from one period to another than in comparing
discretionary expenses, such as research or advertising.
· The degree to which information can be disaggregated. For example, substantive analytical procedures may be more
effective when applied to financial information on individual sections of an operation or to financial statements of
components of a diversified entity, than when applied to the financial statements of the entity as a whole.
· The availability of the information, both financial and non-financial. For example, the auditor may consider whether
financial information, such as budgets or forecasts, and non-financial information, such as the number of units
produced or sold, is available to design substantive analytical procedures. If the information is available, the auditor
may also consider the reliability of the information as discussed in paragraphs A12-A13 above.
Amount of Difference of Recorded Amounts from Expected Values that Is Acceptable (Ref: Para. 5(d))
A16. The auditor’s determination of the amount of difference from the expectation that can be accepted without further
investigation is influenced by materiality
7 and the consistency with the desired level of assurance, taking account of
the possibility that a misstatement, individually or when aggregated with other misstatements, may cause the financial
5 SLAuS 500, paragraph 10.
6 SLAuS 330, paragraphs 22-23.
7 SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit,” paragraph A13.

<!-- page 296 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
296A
statements to be materially misstated. SLAuS 330 requires the auditor to obtain more persuasive audit evidence the
higher the auditor’s assessment of risk. 8 Accordingly, as the assessed risk increases, the amount of difference
considered acceptable without investigation decreases in order to achieve the desired level of persuasive evidence. 9
Analytical Procedures that Assist When Forming an Overall Conclusion (Ref: Para. 6)
A17. The conclusions drawn from the results of analytical procedures designed and performed in accordance with paragraph
6 are intended to corroborate conclusions formed during the audit of individual components or elements of the
financial statements. This assists the auditor to draw reasonable conclusions on which to base the auditor’s opinion.
A18. The results of such analytical procedures may identify a previously unrecognized risk of material misstatement. In
such circumstances, SLAuS 315 requires the auditor to revise the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material
misstatement and modify the further planned audit procedures accordingly.
10
A19. The analytical procedures performed in accordance with paragraph 6 may be similar to those that would be used as
risk assessment procedures.
Investigating Results of Analytical Procedures (Ref: Para. 7)
A20. Audit evidence relevant to management’s responses may be obtained by evaluating those responses taking into
account the auditor’s understanding of the entity and its environment, and with other audit evidence obtained during
the course of the audit.
A21. The need to perform other audit procedures may arise when, for example, management is unable to provide an
explanation, or the explanation, together with the audit evidence obtained relevant to management’s response, is not
considered adequate.
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  530
AUDIT SAMPLING
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ................................................................................................................................................. 1–2
Effective Date .............................................................................................................................................................. 3
Objective  .................................................................................................................................................................... 4
Definitions  ................................................................................................................................................................ 5
Requirements
Sample Design, Size and Selection of Items for Testing...................................................................................... 6–8
Performing Audit Procedures .................................................................................................................................. 9–11
Nature and Cause of Deviations and Misstatements ........................................................................................... 12–13
Projecting Misstatements  ........................................................................................................................................ 14
Evaluating Results of Audit Sampling  ................................................................................................................... 15
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Definitions ................................................................................................................................................................... A1–A3
Sample Design, Size and Selection of Items for Testing .......................................................................................A4–A13
Performing Audit Procedures .................................................................................................................................. A14–A16
Nature and Cause of Deviations and Misstatements .......................................................................................... A17
Projecting Misstatements  ........................................................................................................................................ A18–A20
8 SLAuS 330, paragraph 7(b).
9 SLAuS 330, paragraph A19.
10 SLAuS 315, paragraph 31.

<!-- page 297 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
297A
Evaluating Results of Audit Sampling ................................................................................................................... A21–A23
Appendix 1: Stratification and Value-Weighted Selection
Appendix 2: Examples of Factors Influencing Sample Size for Tests of Controls
Appendix 3: Examples of Factors Influencing Sample Size for Tests of Details
Appendix 4: Sample Selection Methods
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 530, “Audit Sampling” should be read in conjunction
with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit
in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) applies when the auditor has decided to use audit sampling in performing
audit procedures. It deals with the auditor’s use of statistical and non-statistical sampling when designing and
selecting the audit sample, performing tests of controls and tests of details, and evaluating the results from the
sample.
2. This SLAuS complements SLAuS 500,
1 which deals with the auditor’s responsibility to design and perform audit
procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to be able to draw reasonable conclusions on which to
base the auditor’s opinion. SLAuS 500 provides guidance on the means available to the auditor for selecting items for
testing, of which audit sampling is one means.
Effective Date
3. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning  on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
4. The objective of the auditor, when using audit sampling, is to provide a reasonable basis for the auditor to draw
conclusions about the population from which the sample is selected.
Definitions
5. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Audit sampling (sampling) – The application of audit procedures to less than 100% of items within a population
of audit relevance such that all sampling units have a chance of selection in order to provide the auditor with a
reasonable basis on which to draw conclusions about the entire population.
(b) Population – The entire set of data from which a sample is selected and about which the auditor wishes to draw
conclusions.
(c) Sampling risk – The risk that the auditor’s conclusion based on a sample may be different from the conclusion
if the entire population were subjected to the same audit procedure. Sampling risk can lead to two types of
erroneous conclusions:
1 SLAuS 500, “Audit Evidence.”

<!-- page 298 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
298A
(i) In the case of a test of controls, that controls are more effective than they actually are, or in the case of a
test of details, that a material misstatement does not exist when in fact it does. The auditor is primarily
concerned with this type of erroneous conclusion because it affects audit effectiveness and is more likely
to lead to an inappropriate audit opinion.
(ii) In the case of a test of controls, that controls are less effective than they actually are, or in the case of a test
of details, that a material misstatement exists when in fact it does not. This type of erroneous conclusion
affects audit efficiency as it would usually lead to additional work to establish that initial conclusions were
incorrect.
(d) Non-sampling risk – The risk that the auditor reaches an erroneous conclusion for any reason not related to
sampling risk. (Ref: Para A1)
(e) Anomaly – A misstatement or deviation that is demonstrably not representative of misstatements or deviations
in a population.
(f) Sampling unit – The individual items constituting a population. (Ref: Para A2)
(g) Statistical sampling – An approach to sampling that has the following characteristics:
(i) Random selection of the sample items; and
(ii) The use of probability theory to evaluate sample results, including measurement of sampling risk.
A sampling approach that does not have characteristics (i) and (ii) is considered non-statistical sampling.
(h) Stratification – The process of dividing a population into sub-populations, each of which is a group of sampling
units which have similar characteristics (often monetary value).
(i) Tolerable misstatement – A monetary amount set by the auditor in respect of which the auditor seeks to obtain an
appropriate level of assurance that the monetary amount set by the auditor is not exceeded by the actual
misstatement in the population. (Ref: Para A3)
(j) Tolerable rate of deviation – A rate of deviation from prescribed internal control procedures set by the auditor in
respect of which the auditor seeks to obtain an appropriate level of assurance that the rate of deviation set by the
auditor is not exceeded by the actual rate of deviation in the population.
AUDITING
Requirements
Sample Design, Size and Selection of Items for Testing
6. When designing an audit sample, the auditor shall consider the purpose of the audit procedure and the characteristics
of the population from which the sample will be drawn. (Ref: Para. A4-A9)
7. The auditor shall determine a sample size sufficient to reduce sampling risk to an acceptably low level. (Ref: Para. A10-
A11)
8. The auditor shall select items for the sample in such a way that each sampling unit in the population has a chance of
selection. (Ref: Para. A12-A13)
Performing Audit Procedures
9. The auditor shall perform audit procedures, appropriate to the purpose, on each item selected.

<!-- page 299 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
299A
10. If the audit procedure is not applicable to the selected item, the auditor shall perform the procedure on a replacement
item. (Ref: Para. A14)
11. If the auditor is unable to apply the designed audit procedures, or suitable alternative procedures, to a selected item,
the auditor shall treat that item as a deviation from the prescribed control, in the case of tests of controls, or a
misstatement, in the case of tests of details. (Ref: Para. A15-A16)
Nature and Cause of Deviations and Misstatements
12. The auditor shall investigate the nature and cause of any deviations or misstatements identified, and evaluate their
possible effect on the purpose of the audit procedure and on other areas of the audit. (Ref: Para. A17)
13. In the extremely rare circumstances when the auditor considers a misstatement or deviation discovered in a sample to
be an anomaly, the auditor shall obtain a high degree of certainty that such misstatement or deviation is not
representative of the population. The auditor shall obtain this degree of certainty by performing additional audit
procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence that the misstatement or deviation does not affect the
remainder of the population.
Projecting Misstatements
14. For tests of details, the auditor shall project misstatements found in the sample to the population. (Ref: Para. A18-
A20)
Evaluating Results of Audit Sampling
15. The auditor shall evaluate:
(a) The results of the sample; and (Ref: Para. A21-A22)
(b) Whether the use of audit sampling has provided a reasonable basis for conclusions about the population that
has been tested. (Ref: Para. A23)
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Definitions
Non-Sampling Risk (Ref: Para. 5(d))
A1. Examples of non-sampling risk include use of inappropriate audit procedures, or misinterpretation of audit evidence
and failure to recognize a misstatement or deviation.
Sampling Unit (Ref: Para. 5(f))
A2. The sampling units might be physical items (for example, cheques listed on deposit slips, credit entries on bank
statements, sales invoices or debtors’ balances) or monetary units.
Tolerable Misstatement (Ref: Para. 5(i))
A3. When designing a sample, the auditor determines tolerable misstatement in order to address the risk that the aggregate
of individually immaterial misstatements may cause the financial statements to be materially misstated and provide a
margin for possible undetected misstatements. Tolerable misstatement is the application of performance materiality,

<!-- page 300 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
300A
as defined in SLAuS 320,2 to a particular sampling procedure. Tolerable misstatement may be the same amount or an
amount lower than performance materiality.
Sample Design, Size and Selection of Items for Testing
Sample Design (Ref: Para. 6)
A4. Audit sampling enables the auditor to obtain and evaluate audit evidence about some characteristic of the items
selected in order to form or assist in forming a conclusion concerning the population from which the sample is drawn.
Audit sampling can be applied using either non-statistical or statistical sampling approaches.
A5. When designing an audit sample, the auditor’s consideration includes the specific purpose to be achieved and the
combination of audit procedures that is likely to best achieve that purpose. Consideration of the nature of the audit
evidence sought and possible deviation or misstatement conditions or other characteristics relating to that audit
evidence will assist the auditor in defining what constitutes a deviation or misstatement and what population to use
for sampling. In fulfilling the requirement of paragraph 10 of SLAuS 500, when performing audit sampling, the auditor
performs audit procedures to obtain evidence that the population from which the audit sample is drawn is complete.
A6. The auditor’s consideration of the purpose of the audit procedure, as required by paragraph 6, includes a clear
understanding of what constitutes a deviation or misstatement so that all, and only, those conditions that are relevant
to the purpose of the audit procedure are included in the evaluation of deviations or projection of misstatements. For
example, in a test of details relating to the existence of accounts receivable, such as confirmation, payments made by
the customer before the confirmation date but received shortly after that date by the client, are not considered a
misstatement. Also, a misposting between customer accounts does not affect the total accounts receivable balance.
Therefore, it may not be appropriate to consider this a misstatement in evaluating the sample results of this particular
audit procedure, even though it may have an important effect on other areas of the audit, such as the assessment of
the risk of fraud or the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts.
A7. In considering the characteristics of a population, for tests of controls, the auditor makes an assessment of the
expected rate of deviation based on the auditor’s understanding of the relevant controls or on the examination of a
small number of items from the population. This assessment is made in order to design an audit sample and to
determine sample size. For example, if the expected rate of deviation is unacceptably high, the auditor will normally
decide not to perform tests of controls. Similarly, for tests of details, the auditor makes an assessment of the expected
misstatement in the population. If the expected misstatement is high, 100% examination or use of a large sample size
may be appropriate when performing tests of details.
A8. In considering the characteristics of the population from which the sample will be drawn, the auditor may determine
that stratification or value-weighted selection is appropriate. Appendix 1 provides further discussion on stratification
and value-weighted selection.
A9. The decision whether to use a statistical or non-statistical sampling approach is a matter for the auditor’s judgment;
however, sample size is not a valid criterion to distinguish between statistical and non-statistical approaches.
Sample Size (Ref: Para. 7)
A10. The level of sampling risk that the auditor is willing to accept affects the sample size required. The lower the risk the
auditor is willing to accept, the greater the sample size will need to be.
2 SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit,” paragraph 9.

<!-- page 301 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
301A
A11. The sample size can be determined by the application of a statistically-based formula or through the exercise of
professional judgment. Appendices 2 and 3 indicate the influences that various factors typically have on the
determination of sample size. When circumstances are similar, the effect on sample size of factors such as those
identified in Appendices 2 and 3 will be similar regardless of whether a statistical or non-statistical approach is
chosen.
Selection of Items for Testing (Ref: Para. 8)
A12. W ith statistical sampling, sample items are selected in a way that each sampling unit has a known probability of being
selected. With non-statistical sampling, judgment is used to select sample items. Because the purpose of sampling is
to provide a reasonable basis for the auditor to draw conclusions about the population from which the sample is
selected, it is important that the auditor selects a representative sample, so that bias is avoided, by choosing sample
items which have characteristics typical of the population.
A13. The principal methods of selecting samples are the use of random selection, systematic selection and haphazard
selection. Each of these methods is discussed in Appendix 4.
Performing Audit Procedures (Ref: Para. 10-11)
A14. An example of when it is necessary to perform the procedure on a replacement item is when a voided cheques is
selected while testing for evidence of payment authorization. If the auditor is satisfied that the cheques has been
properly voided such that it does not constitute a deviation, an appropriately chosen replacement is examined.
A15. An example of when the auditor is unable to apply the designed audit procedures to a selected item is when
documentation relating to that item has been lost.
A16. An example of a suitable alternative procedure might be the examination of subsequent cash receipts together with
evidence of their source and the items they are intended to settle when no reply has been received in response to a
positive confirmation request.
Nature and Cause of Deviations and Misstatements (Ref: Para. 12)
A17. In analyzing the deviations and misstatements identified, the auditor may observe that many have a common feature,
for example, type of transaction, location, product line or period of time. In such circumstances, the auditor may
decide to identify all items in the population that possess the common feature, and extend audit procedures to those
items. In addition, such deviations or misstatements may be intentional, and may indicate the possibility of fraud.
Projecting Misstatements (Ref: Para. 14)
A18. The auditor is required to project misstatements for the population to obtain a broad view of the scale of misstatement
but this projection may not be sufficient to determine an amount to be recorded.
A19. When a misstatement has been established as an anomaly, it may be excluded when projecting misstatements to the
population. However, the effect of any such misstatement, if uncorrected, still needs to be considered in addition to
the projection of the non-anomalous misstatements.
A20. For tests of controls, no explicit projection of deviations is necessary since the sample deviation rate is also the
projected deviation rate for the population as a whole. SLAuS 330
3 provides guidance when deviations from controls
upon which the auditor intends to rely are detected.
3 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks,” paragraph 17.

<!-- page 302 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
302A
Evaluating Results of Audit Sampling (Ref: Para. 15)
A21. For tests of controls, an unexpectedly high sample deviation rate may lead to an increase in the assessed risk of
material misstatement, unless further audit evidence substantiating the initial assessment is obtained. For tests of
details, an unexpectedly high misstatement amount in a sample may cause the auditor to believe that a class of
transactions or account balance is materially misstated, in the absence of further audit evidence that no
material misstatement exists.
A22. In the case of tests of details, the projected misstatement plus anomalous misstatement, if any, is the
auditor’s best estimate of misstatement in the population. When the projected misstatement plus
anomalous misstatement, if any, exceeds tolerable misstatement, the sample does not provide a
reasonable basis for conclusions about the population that has been tested. The closer the projected
misstatement plus anomalous misstatement is to tolerable misstatement, the more likely that actual
misstatement in the population may exceed tolerable misstatement. Also if the projected misstatement is
greater than the auditor’s
 expectations of misstatement used to determine the sample size, the auditor
may conclude that there is an unacceptable sampling risk that the actual misstatement in the population
exceeds the tolerable misstatement. Considering the results of other audit procedures helps the auditor
to assess the risk that actual misstatement in the population exceeds tolerable misstatement, and the risk
may be reduced if additional audit evidence is obtained.
A23. If the auditor concludes that audit sampling has not provided a reasonable basis for conclusions about
the population that has been tested, the auditor may:
• Request management to investigate misstatements that have been identified and the potential for
further misstatements and to make any necessary adjustments; or
• Tailor the nature, timing and extent of those further audit procedures to best achieve the required
assurance. For example, in the case of tests of controls, the auditor might extend the sample size,
test an alternative control or modify related substantive procedures.
Appendix 1
(Ref: Para. A8)
Stratification and Value-Weighted Selection
In considering the characteristics of the population from which the sample will be drawn, the auditor may determine
that stratification or value-weighted selection is appropriate. This Appendix provides guidance to the auditor on the
use of stratification and value-weighted sampling techniques.
Stratification
1. Audit efficiency may be improved if the auditor stratifies a population by dividing it into discrete sub-populations
which have an identifying characteristic. The objective of stratification is to reduce the variability of items within each
stratum and therefore allow sample size to be reduced without increasing sampling risk.
2. When performing tests of details, the population is often stratified by monetary value. This allows greater audit effort
to be directed to the larger value items, as these items may contain the greatest potential misstatement in terms of
overstatement. Similarly, a population may be stratified according to a particular characteristic that indicates a higher
risk of misstatement, for example, when testing the allowance for doubtful accounts in the valuation of accounts
receivable, balances may be stratified by age.

<!-- page 303 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
303A
3. The results of audit procedures applied to a sample of items within a stratum can only be projected to the items that
make up that stratum. To draw a conclusion on the entire population, the auditor will need to consider the risk of
material misstatement in relation to whatever other strata make up the entire population. For example, 20% of the items
in a population may make up 90% of the value of an account balance. The auditor may decide to examine a sample of
these items. The auditor evaluates the results of this sample and reaches a conclusion on the 90% of value separately
from the remaining 10% (on which a further sample or other means of gathering audit evidence will be used, or which
may be considered immaterial).
4. If a class of transactions or account balance has been divided into strata, the misstatement is projected for each
stratum separately. Projected misstatements for each stratum are then combined when considering the possible effect
of misstatements on the total class of transactions or account balance.
Value-Weighted Selection
5. When performing tests of details it may be efficient to identify the sampling unit as the individual monetary units that
make up the population. Having selected specific monetary units from within the population, for example, the accounts
receivable balance, the auditor may then examine the particular items, for example, individual balances, that contain
those monetary units. One benefit of this approach to defining the sampling unit is that audit effort is directed to the
larger value items because they have a greater chance of selection, and can result in smaller sample sizes. This
approach may be used in conjunction with the systematic method of sample selection (described in Appendix 4) and
is most efficient when selecting items using random selection.
Appendix 2
(Ref: Para. A11)
Examples of Factors Influencing Sample Size for Tests of Controls
The following are factors that the auditor may consider when determining the sample size for tests of controls. These
factors, which need to be considered together, assume the auditor does not modify the nature or timing of tests of
controls or otherwise modify the approach to substantive procedures in response to assessed risks.
FACTOR EFFECT ONSAMPLE SIZE
The more assurance the auditor intends to obtain
from the operating effectiveness of controls, the lower
the auditor’s assessment of the risk of material
misstatement will be, and the larger the sample size will
need to be. When the auditor’s assessment of the risk
of material misstatement at the assertion level includes
an expectation of the operating effectiveness of
controls, the auditor is required to perform tests of
controls. Other things being equal, the greater the
reliance the auditor places on the operating
effectiveness of controls in the risk assessment, the
greater is the extent of the auditor’s tests of controls
(and therefore, the sample size is increased).
The lower the tolerable rate of deviation, the larger the
sample size needs to be.
1. An increase in the extent to
which the auditor’s risk
assessment takes into
account relevant controls
2. An increase in the tolerable
rate of deviation
Increase
Decrease

<!-- page 304 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
304A
FACTOR EFFECT  ON SAMPLE SIZE
Increase
Increase
Negligible effect
3. An increase in the expected
rate of deviation of the
population to be tested
4. An increase in the auditor’s
desired level of assurance
that the tolerable rate of
deviation is not exceeded by
the actual rate of deviation in
the population
5. An increase in the number of
sampling units in the
population
The higher the expected rate of deviation, the larger the
sample size needs to be so that the auditor is in a
position to make a reasonable estimate of the actual
rate of deviation. Factors relevant to the auditor’s
consideration of the expected rate of deviation include
the auditor’s understanding of the business (in
particular, risk assessment procedures undertaken to
obtain an understanding of internal control), changes
in personnel or in internal control, the results of audit
procedures applied in prior periods and the results of
other audit procedures. High expected control deviation
rates ordinarily warrant little, if any, reduction of the
assessed risk of material misstatement.
The greater the level of assurance that the auditor
desires that the results of the sample are in fact indicative
of the actual incidence of deviation in the population,
the larger the sample size needs to be.
For large populations, the actual size of the population
has little, if any, effect on sample size. For small
populations however, audit sampling may not be as
efficient as alternative means of obtaining sufficient
appropriate audit evidence.
Appendix 3
(Ref: Para. A11)
Examples of Factors Influencing Sample Size for Tests of Details
The following are factors that the auditor may consider when determining the sample size for tests of details. These
factors, which need to be considered together, assume the auditor does not modify the approach to tests of controls
or otherwise modify the nature or timing of substantive procedures in response to the assessed risks.
FACTOR EFFECT  ON SAMPLE  SIZE
 The higher the auditor’s assessment of the risk of
material misstatement, the larger the sample size needs
to be. The auditor’s assessment of the risk of material
misstatement is affected by inherent risk and control
risk. For example, if the auditor does not perform tests
of controls, the auditor’s risk assessment cannot be
reduced for the effective operation of internal controls
with respect to the particular assertion. Therefore, in
order to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level,
the auditor needs a low detection risk and will rely more
on substantive procedures. The more audit evidence
that is obtained from tests of details (that is, the lower
the detection risk), the larger the sample size will need
to be.
1. An increase in the auditor’s
assessment of the risk of
material misstatement
Increase

<!-- page 305 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
305A
FACTOR EFFECT  ON SAMPLE SIZE
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Negligible effect
2. An increase in the use of
other substantive procedures
directed at the same assertion
3. An increase in the auditor’s
desired level of assurance
that tolerable misstatement is
not exceeded by actual
misstatement in the
population
4 . An increase in tolerable
misstatement
5. An increase in the amount of
misstatement the auditor
expects to find in the
population
6 . Stratification of the
population when appropriate
7. The number of sampling units
in the population
The more the auditor is relying on other substantive
procedures (tests of details or substantive analytical
procedures) to reduce to an acceptable level the
detection risk regarding a particular population, the less
assurance the auditor will require from sampling and,
therefore, the smaller the sample size can be.
The greater the level of assurance that the auditor
requires that the results of the sample are in fact
indicative of the actual amount of misstatement in the
population, the larger the sample size needs to be.
The lower the tolerable misstatement, the larger the
sample size needs to be.
The greater the amount of misstatement the auditor
expects to find in the population, the larger the sample
size needs to be in order to make a reasonable estimate
of the actual amount of misstatement in the population.
Factors relevant to the auditor’s consideration of the
expected misstatement amount include the extent to
which item values are determined subjectively, the
results of risk assessment procedures, the results of
tests of control, the results of audit procedures applied
in prior periods, and the results of other substantive
procedures.
When there is a wide range (variability) in the monetary
size of items in the population, it may be useful to
stratify the population. When a population can be
appropriately stratified, the aggregate of the sample
sizes from the strata generally will be less than the
sample size that would have been required to attain a
given level of sampling risk, had one sample been drawn
from the whole population.
For large populations, the actual size of the population
has little, if any, effect on sample size. Thus, for small
populations, audit sampling is often not as efficient as
alternative means of obtaining sufficient appropriate
audit evidence. (However, when using monetary unit
sampling, an increase in the monetary value of the
population increases sample size, unless this is offset
by a proportional increase in materiality for the financial
statements as a whole [and, if applicable, materiality
level or levels for particular classes of transactions,
account balances or disclosures].)
AUDITING

<!-- page 306 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
306A
Appendix 4
(Ref: Para. A13)
Sample Selection Methods
There are many methods of selecting samples. The principal methods are as follows:
(a) Random selection (applied through random number generators, for example, random number tables).
(b) Systematic selection, in which the number of sampling units in the population is divided by the sample size to
give a sampling interval, for example 50, and having determined a starting point within the first 50, each 50th
sampling unit thereafter is selected. Although the starting point may be determined haphazardly, the sample is
more likely to be truly random if it is determined by use of a computerized random number generator or random
number tables. When using systematic selection, the auditor would need to determine that sampling units
within the population are not structured in such a way that the sampling interval corresponds with a particular
pattern in the population.
(c) Monetary Unit Sampling is a type of value-weighted selection (as described in Appendix 1) in which sample
size, selection and evaluation results in a conclusion in monetary amounts.
(d) Haphazard selection, in which the auditor selects the sample without following a structured technique. Although
no structured technique is used, the auditor would nonetheless avoid any conscious bias or predictability (for
example, avoiding difficult to locate items, or always choosing or avoiding the first or last entries on a page) and
thus attempt to ensure that all items in the population have a chance of selection. Haphazard selection is not
appropriate when using statistical sampling.
(e) Block selection involves selection of a block(s) of contiguous items from within the population. Block selection
cannot ordinarily be used in audit sampling because most populations are structured such that items in a
sequence can be expected to have similar characteristics to each other, but different characteristics from items
elsewhere in the population. Although in some circumstances it may be an appropriate audit procedure to
examine a block of items, it would rarely be an appropriate sample selection technique when the auditor intends
to draw valid inferences about the entire population based on the sample.
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  540
AUDITING  ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES,  INCLUDING  FAIR V ALUE   ACCOUNTING  ESTIMATES,  AND RELATED
DISCLOSURES
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................................................................................ 1
Nature of Accounting Estimates ........................................................................................................................ 2-4
Effective Date........................................................................................................................................................ 5
Objective ............................................................................................................................................................... 6
Definitions ............................................................................................................................................................ 7
Requirements
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ...................................................................................... 8-9

<!-- page 307 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
307A
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement .................................................................. 10-11
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement  …….............................................................. 12-14
Further Substantive Procedures to Respond to Significant Risks …............................................................ 15-17
Evaluating the Reasonableness of the Accounting Estimates, and
 Determining Misstatements  .............................................................................................................................. 1 8
Disclosures Related to Accounting Estimates ................................................................................................. 19-20
Indicators of Possible Management Bias .......................................................................................................... 21
Written Representations ..................................................................................................................................... 22
Documentation ..................................................................................................................................................... 23
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Nature of Accounting Estimates ........................................................................................................................A1-A11
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ……….........................................................……........ A12-A44
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement ...................................................................A45-A51
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement .......................................................................A52-A101
Further Substantive Procedures to Respond to Significant Risks ................................................................A102-A115
Evaluating the Reasonableness of the Accounting Estimates, and
  Determining Misstatements .............................................................................................................................. A116-A119
Disclosures Related to Accounting Estimates .................................................................................................A120-A123
Indicators of Possible Management Bias .. ....................................................................................................... A124-A125
Written Representations  ..................................................................................................................................... A126-A127
Documentation  .................................................................................................................................................... A128
Appendix: Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures under Different
 Financial Reporting Frameworks
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 540, “Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair
Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures” should be read in conjunction with
SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in
Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to accounting estimates,
including fair value accounting estimates, and related disclosures in an audit of financial statements. Specifically, it
expands on how SLAuS 315
1 and SLAuS 3302 and other relevant SLAuSs are to be applied in relation to accounting
estimates. It also includes requirements and guidance on misstatements of individual accounting estimates, and
indicators of possible management bias.
Nature of Accounting Estimates
2. Some financial statement items cannot be measured precisely, but can only be estimated. For purposes of this SLAuS,
such financial statement items are referred to as accounting estimates. The nature and reliability of information
available to management to support the making of an accounting estimate varies widely, which thereby affects the
degree of estimation uncertainty associated with accounting estimates. The degree of estimation uncertainty affects,
in turn, the risks of material misstatement of accounting estimates, including their susceptibility to unintentional or
intentional management bias. (Ref: Para. A1-A11)
Paragraph
1 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment.”

<!-- page 308 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
308A
3. The measurement objective of accounting estimates can vary depending on the applicable financial reporting framework
and the financial item being reported. The measurement objective for some accounting estimates is to forecast the
outcome of one or more transactions, events or conditions giving rise to the need for the accounting estimate. For
other accounting estimates, including many fair value accounting estimates, the measurement objective is different,
and is expressed in terms of the value of a current transaction or financial statement item based on conditions
prevalent at the measurement date, such as estimated market price for a particular type of asset or liability. For
example, the applicable financial reporting framework may require fair value measurement based on an assumed
hypothetical current transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties (sometimes referred to as “marketplace
participants” or equivalent) in an arm’s length transaction, rather than the settlement of a transaction at some past or
future date.
3
4. A difference between the outcome of an accounting estimate and the amount originally recognized or disclosed in the
financial statements does not necessarily represent a misstatement of the financial statements. This is particularly the
case for fair value accounting estimates, as any observed outcome is invariably affected by events or conditions
subsequent to the date at which the measurement is estimated for purposes of the financial statements.
Effective Date
5. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
6. The objective of the auditor is to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about whether:
(a) accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates, in the financial statements, whether recognized
or disclosed, are reasonable; and
(b) related disclosures in the financial statements are adequate,
in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework.
Definitions
7. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Accounting estimate – An approximation of a monetary amount in the absence of a precise means of measurement.
This term is used for an amount measured at fair value where there is estimation uncertainty, as well as for other
amounts that require estimation. Where this SLAuS addresses only accounting estimates involving measurement
at fair value, the term “fair value accounting estimates” is used.
(b) Auditor’s point estimate or auditor’s range – The amount, or range of amounts, respectively, derived from audit
evidence for use in evaluating management’s point estimate.
(c) Estimation uncertainty – The susceptibility of an accounting estimate and related disclosures to an inherent
lack of precision in its measurement.
(d) Management bias – A lack of neutrality by management in the preparation of information.
(e) Management’s point estimate – The amount selected by management for recognition or disclosure in the
financial statements as an accounting estimate.
2 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”
3 Different definitions of fair value may exist among financial reporting frameworks.

<!-- page 309 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
309A
(f) Outcome of an accounting estimate – The actual monetary amount which results from the resolution of the
underlying transaction(s), event(s) or condition(s) addressed by the accounting estimate.
Requirements
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities
8. When performing risk assessment procedures and related activities to obtain an understanding of the entity and its
environment, including the entity’s internal control, as required by SLAuS 315,
4 the auditor shall obtain an
understanding of the following in order to provide a basis for the identification and assessment of the risks of material
misstatement for accounting estimates: (Ref: Para. A12)
(a) The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework relevant to accounting estimates, including
related disclosures. (Ref: Para. A13-A15)
(b) How management identifies those transactions, events and conditions that may give rise to the need for
accounting estimates to be recognized or disclosed in the financial statements. In obtaining this understanding,
the auditor shall make inquiries of management about changes in circumstances that may give rise to new, or the
need to revise existing, accounting estimates. (Ref: Para. A16-A21)
(c) How management makes the accounting estimates, and an understanding of the data on which they are based,
including: (Ref: Para. A22-A23)
(i) The method, including where applicable the model, used in making the accounting estimate; (Ref: Para.
A24-A26)
(ii) Relevant controls; (Ref: Para. A27-A28)
(iii) Whether management has used an expert; (Ref: Para. A29-A30)
(iv) The assumptions underlying the accounting estimates; (Ref: Para. A31-A36)
(v) Whether there has been or ought to have been a change from the prior period in the methods for making the
accounting estimates, and if so, why; and (Ref: Para. A37)
(vi) Whether and, if so, how management has assessed the effect of estimation uncertainty. (Ref: Para. A38)
9. The auditor shall review the outcome of accounting estimates included in the prior period financial statements, or,
where applicable, their subsequent re-estimation for the purpose of the current period. The nature and extent of the
auditor’s review takes account of the nature of the accounting estimates, and whether the information obtained from
the review would be relevant to identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement of accounting estimates
made in the current period financial statements. However, the review is not intended to call into question the judgments
made in the prior periods that were based on information available at the time. (Ref: Para. A39-A44)
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement
10. In identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement, as required by SLAuS 315,
5 the auditor shall evaluate
the degree of estimation uncertainty associated with an accounting estimate. (Ref: Para. A45-A46)
4 SLAuS 315, paragraphs 5-6 and 11-12.
5 SLAuS 315,  paragraph 25.

<!-- page 310 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
310A
11. The auditor shall determine whether, in the auditor’s judgment, any of those accounting estimates that have been
identified as having high estimation uncertainty give rise to significant risks. (Ref: Para. A47-A51)
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement
12. Based on the assessed risks of material misstatement, the auditor shall determine: (Ref: Para. A52)
(a) Whether management has appropriately applied the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework
relevant to the accounting estimate; and (Ref: Para. A53-A56)
(b) Whether the methods for making the accounting estimates are appropriate and have been applied consistently,
and whether changes, if any, in accounting estimates or in the method for making them from the prior period are
appropriate in the circumstances. (Ref: Para. A57-A58)
13. In responding to the assessed risks of material misstatement, as required by SLAuS 330,
6 the auditor shall undertake
one or more of the following, taking account of the nature of the accounting estimate: (Ref: Para. A59-A61)
(a) Determine whether events occurring up to the date of the auditor’s report provide audit evidence regarding the
accounting estimate. (Ref: Para. A62-A67)
(b) Test how management made the accounting estimate and the data on which it is based. In doing so, the auditor
shall evaluate whether: (Ref: Para. A68-A70)
(i) The method of measurement used is appropriate in the circumstances; and (Ref: Para. A71-A76)
(ii) The assumptions used by management are reasonable in light of the measurement objectives of the
applicable financial reporting framework. (Ref: Para. A77-A83)
(c) Test the operating effectiveness of the controls over how management made the accounting estimate, together
with appropriate substantive procedures. (Ref: Para. A84-A86)
(d) Develop a point estimate or a range to evaluate management’s point estimate. For this purpose: (Ref: Para. A87-
A91)
(i) If the auditor uses assumptions or methods that differ from management’s, the auditor shall obtain an
understanding of management’s assumptions or methods sufficient to establish that the auditor’s point
estimate or range takes into account relevant variables and to evaluate any significant differences from
management’s point estimate. (Ref: Para. A92)
(ii) If the auditor concludes that it is appropriate to use a range, the auditor shall narrow the range, based on
audit evidence available, until all outcomes within the range are considered reasonable. (Ref: Para. A93-
A95)
14. In determining the matters identified in paragraph 12 or in responding to the assessed risks of material misstatement
in accordance with paragraph 13, the auditor shall consider whether specialized skills or knowledge in relation to one
or more aspects of the accounting estimates are required in order to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. (Ref:
Para. A96-A101)
6 SLAuS 330, paragraph 5.

<!-- page 311 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
311A
Further Substantive Procedures to Respond to Significant Risks
Estimation Uncertainty
15. For accounting estimates that give rise to significant risks, in addition to other substantive procedures performed to
meet the requirements of SLAuS 330,7 the auditor shall evaluate the following: (Ref: Para. A102)
(a) How management has considered alternative assumptions or outcomes, and why it has rejected them, or how
management has otherwise addressed estimation uncertainty in making the accounting estimate. (Ref: Para.
A103-A106)
(b) Whether the significant assumptions used by management are reasonable. (Ref: Para. A107-A109)
(c) Where relevant to the reasonableness of the significant assumptions used by management or the appropriate
application of the applicable financial reporting framework, management’s intent to carry out specific courses
of action and its ability to do so. (Ref: Para. A110)
16. If, in the auditor’s judgment, management has not adequately addressed the effects of estimation uncertainty on the
accounting estimates that give rise to significant risks, the auditor shall, if considered necessary, develop a range
with which to evaluate the reasonableness of the accounting estimate. (Ref: Para. A111-A112)
Recognition and Measurement Criteria
17. For accounting estimates that give rise to significant risks, the auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence about whether:
(a) management’s decision to recognize, or to not recognize, the accounting estimates in the financial statements;
and (Ref: Para. A113-A114)
(b) the selected measurement basis for the accounting estimates, (Ref: Para. A115)
are in accordance with the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework.
Evaluating the Reasonableness of the Accounting Estimates, and Determining Misstatements
18. The auditor shall evaluate, based on the audit evidence, whether the accounting estimates in the financial statements
are either reasonable in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework, or are misstated. (Ref: Para. A116-
A119)
Disclosures Related to Accounting Estimates
19. The auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about whether the disclosures in the financial statements
related to accounting estimates are in accordance with the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework.
(Ref: Para. A120-A121)
20. For accounting estimates that give rise to significant risks, the auditor shall also evaluate the adequacy of the
disclosure of their estimation uncertainty in the financial statements in the context of the applicable financial reporting
framework. (Ref: Para. A122-A123)
7 SLAuS 330, paragraph 18.

<!-- page 312 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
312A
Indicators of Possible Management Bias
21. The auditor shall review the judgments and decisions made by management in the making of accounting estimates to
identify whether there are indicators of possible management bias. Indicators of possible management bias do not
themselves constitute misstatements for the purposes of drawing conclusions on the reasonableness of individual
accounting estimates. (Ref: Para. A124-A125)
Written Representations
22. The auditor shall obtain written representations from management and, where appropriate, those charged with
governance whether they believe significant assumptions used in making accounting estimates are reasonable. (Ref:
Para. A126-A127)
Documentation
23. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation:
8
(a) The basis for the auditor’s conclusions about the reasonableness of accounting estimates and their disclosure
that give rise to significant risks; and
(b) Indicators of possible management bias, if any. (Ref: Para. A128)
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Nature of Accounting Estimates (Ref: Para. 2)
A1. Because of the uncertainties inherent in business activities, some financial statement items can only be estimated.
Further, the specific characteristics of an asset, liability or component of equity, or the basis of or method of measurement
prescribed by the financial reporting framework, may give rise to the need to estimate a financial statement item. Some
financial reporting frameworks prescribe specific methods of measurement and the disclosures that are required to be
made in the financial statements, while other financial reporting frameworks are less specific. The Appendix to this
SLAuS discusses fair value measurements and disclosures under different financial reporting frameworks.
A2. Some accounting estimates involve relatively low estimation uncertainty and may give rise to lower risks of material
misstatements, for example:
AUDITING
* Accounting estimates arising in entities that engage in business activities that are not complex.
* Accounting estimates that are frequently made and updated because they relate to routine transactions.
* Accounting estimates derived from data that is readily available, such as published interest rate data or exchange-
traded prices of securities. Such data may be referred to as “observable” in the context of a fair value accounting
estimate.
* Fair value accounting estimates where the method of measurement prescribed by the applicable financial reporting
framework is simple and applied easily to the asset or liability requiring measurement at fair value.
* Fair value accounting estimates where the model used to measure the accounting estimate is well-known or
generally accepted, provided that the assumptions or inputs to the model are observable.
8 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.

<!-- page 313 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
313A
A3. For some accounting estimates, however, there may be relatively high estimation uncertainty, particularly where they
are based on significant assumptions, for example:
* Accounting estimates relating to the outcome of litigation.
* Fair value accounting estimates for derivative financial instruments not publicly traded.
* Fair value accounting estimates for which a highly specialized entity-developed model is used or for which there
are assumptions or inputs that cannot be observed in the marketplace.
A4. The degree of estimation uncertainty varies based on the nature of the accounting estimate, the extent to which there
is a generally accepted method or model used to make the accounting estimate, and the subjectivity of the assumptions
used to make the accounting estimate. In some cases, estimation uncertainty associated with an accounting estimate
may be so great that the recognition criteria in the applicable financial reporting framework are not met and the
accounting estimate cannot be made.
A5. Not all financial statement items requiring measurement at fair value, involve estimation uncertainty. For example, this
may be the case for some financial statement items where there is an active and open market that provides readily
available and reliable information on the prices at which actual exchanges occur, in which case the existence of
published price quotations ordinarily is the best audit evidence of fair value. However, estimation uncertainty may
exist even when the valuation method and data are well defined. For example, valuation of securities quoted on an
active and open market at the listed market price may require adjustment if the holding is significant in relation to the
market or is subject to restrictions in marketability. In addition, general economic circumstances prevailing at the time,
for example, illiquidity in a particular market, may impact estimation uncertainty.
A6. Additional examples of situations where accounting estimates, other than fair value accounting estimates, may be
required include:
* Allowance for doubtful accounts.
* Inventory obsolescence.
* Warranty obligations.
* Depreciation method or asset useful life.
* Provision against the carrying amount of an investment where there is uncertainty regarding its recoverability.
* Outcome of long term contracts.
* Costs arising from litigation settlements and judgments.
A7. Additional examples of situations where fair value accounting estimates may be required include:
* Complex financial instruments, which are not traded in an active and open market.
* Share-based payments.
* Property or equipment held for disposal.
* Certain assets or liabilities acquired in a business combination, including goodwill and intangible assets.
* Transactions involving the exchange of assets or liabilities between independent parties without monetary
consideration, for example, a non-monetary exchange of plant facilities in different lines of business.
A8. Estimation involves judgments based on information available when the financial statements are prepared. For many
accounting estimates, these include making assumptions about matters that are uncertain at the time of estimation.
The auditor is not responsible for predicting future conditions, transactions or events that, if known at the time of the
audit, might have significantly affected management’s actions or the assumptions used by management.

<!-- page 314 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
314A
Management Bias
A9. Financial reporting frameworks often call for neutrality, that is, freedom from bias. Accounting estimates are imprecise,
however, and can be influenced by management judgment. Such judgment may involve unintentional or intentional
management bias (for example, as a result of motivation to achieve a desired result). The susceptibility of an accounting
estimate to management bias increases with the subjectivity involved in making it. Unintentional management bias
and the potential for intentional management bias are inherent in subjective decisions that are often required in
making an accounting estimate. For continuing audits, indicators of possible management bias identified during the
audit of the preceding periods influence the planning and risk identification and assessment activities of the auditor
in the current period.
A10. Management bias can be difficult to detect at an account level. It may only be identified when considered in the
aggregate of groups of accounting estimates or all accounting estimates, or when observed over a number of
accounting periods. Although some form of management bias is inherent in subjective decisions, in making such
judgments there may be no intention by management to mislead the users of financial statements. Where, however,
there is intention to mislead, management bias is fraudulent in nature.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A11. Public sector entities may have significant holdings of specialized assets for which there are no readily available and
reliable sources of information for purposes of measurement at fair value or other current value bases, or a combination
of both. Often specialized assets held do not generate cash flows and do not have an active market. Measurement at
fair value therefore ordinarily requires estimation and may be complex, and in some rare cases may not be possible at
all.
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities (Ref: Para. 8)
A12. The risk assessment procedures and related activities required by paragraph 8 of this SLAuS assist the auditor in
developing an expectation of the nature and type of accounting estimates that an entity may have. The auditor’s
primary consideration is whether the understanding that has been obtained is sufficient to identify and assess the
risks of material misstatement in relation to accounting estimates, and to plan the nature, timing and extent of further
audit procedures.
Obtaining an Understanding of the Requirements of the Applicable Financial
Reporting Framework (Ref: Para. 8(a))
A13. Obtaining an understanding of the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework assists the auditor in
determining whether it, for example:
* Prescribes certain conditions for the recognition,
9 or methods for the measurement, of accounting estimates.
* Specifies certain conditions that permit or require measurement at a fair value, for example, by referring to
management’s intentions to carry out certain courses of action with respect to an asset or liability.
* Specifies required or permitted disclosures.
Obtaining this understanding also provides the auditor with a basis for discussion with management about how
management has applied those requirements relevant to the accounting estimate, and the auditor’s determination of
whether they have been applied appropriately.
A14. Financial reporting frameworks may provide guidance for management on determining point estimates where
alternatives exist. Some financial reporting frameworks, for example, require that the point estimate selected be the
alternative that reflects management’s judgment of the most likely outcome.
10 Others may require, for example, use of
a discounted probability-weighted expected value. In some cases, management may be able to make a point estimate
directly. In other cases, management may be able to make a reliable point estimate only after considering alternative
assumptions or outcomes from which it is able to determine a point estimate.
9 Most financial reporting frameworks require incorporation in the balance sheet or income statement of items that satisfy their
criteria for recognition. Disclosure of accounting policies or adding notes to the financial statements does not rectify a fail ure to
recognize such items, including accounting estimates.
10 Different financial reporting frameworks may use different terminology to describe point estimates determined in this way.

<!-- page 315 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
315A
A15. Financial reporting frameworks may require the disclosure of information concerning the significant assumptions to
which the accounting estimate is particularly sensitive. Furthermore, where there is a high degree of estimation
uncertainty, some financial reporting frameworks do not permit an accounting estimate to be recognized in the
financial statements, but certain disclosures may be required in the notes to the financial statements.
Obtaining an Understanding of How Management Identifies the Need for Accounting Estimates (Ref: Para. 8(b))
A16. The preparation of the financial statements requires management to determine whether a transaction, event or
condition gives rise to the need to make an accounting estimate, and that all necessary accounting estimates have
been recognized, measured and disclosed in the financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial
reporting framework.
A17. Management’s identification of transactions, events and conditions that give rise to the need for accounting estimates
is likely to be based on:
* Management’s knowledge of the entity’s business and the industry in which it operates.
* Management’s knowledge of the implementation of business strategies in the current period.
* Where applicable, management’s cumulative experience of preparing the entity’s financial statements in prior
periods.
In such cases, the auditor may obtain an understanding of how management identifies the need for accounting
estimates primarily through inquiry of management. In other cases, where management’s process is more structured,
for example, when management has a formal risk management function, the auditor may perform risk assessment
procedures directed at the methods and practices followed by management for periodically reviewing the circumstances
that give rise to the accounting estimates and re-estimating the accounting estimates as necessary. The completeness
of accounting estimates is often an important consideration of the auditor, particularly accounting estimates relating
to liabilities.
A18. The auditor’s understanding of the entity and its environment obtained during the performance of risk assessment
procedures, together with other audit evidence obtained during the course of the audit, assist the auditor in identifying
circumstances, or changes in circumstances, that may give rise to the need for an accounting estimate.
A19. Inquiries of management about changes in circumstances may include, for example, inquiries about whether:
* The entity has engaged in new types of transactions that may give rise to accounting estimates.
* Terms of transactions that gave rise to accounting estimates have changed.
* Accounting policies relating to accounting estimates have changed, as a result of changes to the requirements
of the applicable financial reporting framework or otherwise.
* Regulatory or other changes outside the control of management have occurred that may require management to
revise, or make new, accounting estimates.
* New conditions or events have occurred that may give rise to the need for new or revised accounting estimates.
A20. During the audit, the auditor may identify transactions, events and conditions that give rise to the need for accounting
estimates that management failed to identify. SLAuS 315 deals with circumstances where the auditor identifies risks
of material misstatement that management failed to identify, including determining whether there is a significant
deficiency in internal control with regard to the entity’s risk assessment processes.
11
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
11 SLAuS 315, paragraph 16.

<!-- page 316 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
316A
A21. Obtaining this understanding for smaller entities is often less complex as their business activities are often limited and
transactions are less complex. Further, often a single person, for example the owner-manager, identifies the need to
make an accounting estimate and the auditor may focus inquiries accordingly.
Obtaining an Understanding of How Management Makes the Accounting Estimates (Ref: Para. 8(c))
A22. The preparation of the financial statements also requires management to establish financial reporting processes for
making accounting estimates, including adequate internal control. Such processes include the following:
* Selecting appropriate accounting policies and prescribing estimation processes, including appropriate estimation
or valuation methods, including, where applicable, models.
* Developing or identifying relevant data and assumptions that affect accounting estimates.
* Periodically reviewing the circumstances that give rise to the accounting estimates and re-estimating the accounting
estimates as necessary.
A23. Matters that the auditor may consider in obtaining an understanding of how management makes the accounting
estimates include, for example:
* The types of accounts or transactions to which the accounting estimates relate (for example, whether the
accounting estimates arise from the recording of routine and recurring transactions or whether they arise from
non-recurring or unusual transactions).
* Whether and, if so, how management has used recognized measurement techniques for making particular
accounting estimates.
* Whether the accounting estimates were made based on data available at an interim date and, if so, whether and
how management has taken into account the effect of events, transactions and changes in circumstances
occurring between that date and the period end.
Method of Measurement, Including the Use of Models (Ref: Para. 8(c)(i))
A24. In some cases, the applicable financial reporting framework may prescribe the method of measurement for an accounting
estimate, for example, a particular model that is to be used in measuring a fair value estimate. In many cases, however,
the applicable financial reporting framework does not prescribe the method of measurement, or may specify alternative
methods for measurement.
A25. When the applicable financial reporting framework does not prescribe a particular method to be used in the
circumstances, matters that the auditor may consider in obtaining an understanding of the method or, where applicable
the model, used to make accounting estimates include, for example:
* How management considered the nature of the asset or liability being estimated when selecting a particular
method.
* Whether the entity operates in a particular business, industry or environment in which there are methods
commonly used to make the particular type of accounting estimate.
A26. There may be greater risks of material misstatement, for example, in cases when management has internally developed
a model to be used to make the accounting estimate or is departing from a method commonly used in a particular
industry or environment.
Relevant Controls (Ref: Para. 8(c)(ii))
A27. Matters that the auditor may consider in obtaining an understanding of relevant controls include, for example, the
experience and competence of those who make the accounting estimates, and controls related to:
* How management determines the completeness, relevance and accuracy of the data used to develop accounting
estimates.
* The review and approval of accounting estimates, including the assumptions or inputs used in their development,
by appropriate levels of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance.

<!-- page 317 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
317A
* The segregation of duties between those committing the entity to the underlying transactions and those
responsible for making the accounting estimates, including whether the assignment of responsibilities appropriately
takes account of the nature of the entity and its products or services (for example, in the case of a large financial
institution, relevant segregation of duties may include an independent function responsible for estimation and
validation of fair value pricing of the entity’s proprietary financial products staffed by individuals whose
remuneration is not tied to such products).
A28. Other controls may be relevant to making the accounting estimates depending on the circumstances. For example, if
the entity uses specific models for making accounting estimates, management may put into place specific policies and
procedures around such models. Relevant controls may include, for example, those established over:
* The design and development, or selection, of a particular model for a particular purpose.
* The use of the model.
* The maintenance and periodic validation of the integrity of the model.
Management’s Use of Experts (Ref: Para. 8(c)(iii))
A29. Management may have, or the entity may employ individuals with, the experience and competence necessary to make
the required point estimates. In some cases, however, management may need to engage an expert to make, or assist in
making, them. This need may arise because of, for example:
* The specialized nature of the matter requiring estimation, for example, the measurement of mineral or hydrocarbon
reserves in extractive industries.
* The technical nature of the models required to meet the relevant requirements of the applicable financial reporting
framework, as may be the case in certain measurements at fair value.
* The unusual or infrequent nature of the condition, transaction or event requiring an accounting estimate.
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A30. In smaller entities, the circumstances requiring an accounting estimate often are such that the owner-manager is
capable of making the required point estimate. In some cases, however, an expert will be needed. Discussion with the
owner-manager early in the audit process about the nature of any accounting estimates, the completeness of the
required accounting estimates, and the adequacy of the estimating process may assist the owner-manager in determining
the need to use an expert.
Assumptions (Ref: Para. 8(c)(iv))
A31. Assumptions are integral components of accounting estimates. Matters that the auditor may consider in obtaining an
understanding of the assumptions underlying the accounting estimates include, for example:
* The nature of the assumptions, including which of the assumptions are likely to be significant assumptions.
* How management assesses whether the assumptions are relevant and complete (that is, that all relevant variables
have been taken into account).
* Where applicable, how management determines that the assumptions used are internally consistent.
* Whether the assumptions relate to matters within the control of management (for example, assumptions about
the maintenance programs that may affect the estimation of an asset’s useful life), and how they conform to the
entity’s business plans and the external environment, or to matters that are outside its control (for example,
assumptions about interest rates, mortality rates, potential judicial or regulatory actions, or the variability and
the timing of future cash flows).
* The nature and extent of documentation, if any, supporting the assumptions.
Assumptions may be made or identified by an expert to assist management in making the accounting estimates. Such
assumptions, when used by management, become management’s assumptions.

<!-- page 318 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
318A
A32. In some cases, assumptions may be referred to as inputs, for example, where management uses a model to make an
accounting estimate, though the term inputs may also be used to refer to the underlying data to which specific
assumptions are applied.
A33. Management may support assumptions with different types of information drawn from internal and external sources,
the relevance and reliability of which will vary. In some cases, an assumption may be reliably based on applicable
information from either external sources (for example, published interest rate or other statistical data) or internal
sources (for example, historical information or previous conditions experienced by the entity). In other cases, an
assumption may be more subjective, for example, where the entity has no experience or external sources from which
to draw.
A34. In the case of fair value accounting estimates, assumptions reflect, or are consistent with, what knowledgeable,
willing arm’s length parties (sometimes referred to as “marketplace participants” or equivalent) would use in determining
fair value when exchanging an asset or settling a liability. Specific assumptions will also vary with the characteristics
of the asset or liability being valued, the valuation method used (for example, a market approach, or an income
approach) and the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework.
A35. W ith respect to fair value accounting estimates, assumptions or inputs vary in terms of their source and bases, as
follows:
(a) Those that reflect what marketplace participants would use in pricing an asset or liability developed based on
market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (sometimes referred to as “observable
inputs” or equivalent).
(b) Those that reflect the entity’s own judgments about what assumptions marketplace participants would use in
pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances (sometimes
referred to as “unobservable inputs” or equivalent).
In practice, however, the distinction between (a) and (b) is not always apparent. Further, it may be necessary for
management to select from a number of different assumptions used by different marketplace participants.
A36. The extent of subjectivity, such as whether an assumption or input is observable, influences the degree of estimation
uncertainty and thereby the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement for a particular accounting
estimate.
Changes in Methods for Making Accounting Estimates (Ref: Para. 8(c)(v))
A37. In evaluating how management makes the accounting estimates, the auditor is required to understand whether there
has been or ought to have been a change from the prior period in the methods for making the accounting estimates.
A specific estimation method may need to be changed in response to changes in the environment or circumstances
affecting the entity or in the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework. If management has changed
the method for making an accounting estimate, it is important that management can demonstrate that the new method
is more appropriate, or is itself a response to such changes. For example, if management changes the basis of making
an accounting estimate from a mark-to-market approach to using a model, the auditor challenges whether management’s
assumptions about the marketplace are reasonable in light of economic circumstances.
Estimation Uncertainty (Ref: Para. 8(c)(vi))
A38. Matters that the auditor may consider in obtaining an understanding of whether and, if so, how management has
assessed the effect of estimation uncertainty include, for example:
* Whether and, if so, how management has considered alternative assumptions or outcomes by, for example,
performing a sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of changes in the assumptions on an accounting
estimate.
* How management determines the accounting estimate when analysis indicates a number of outcome scenarios.
* Whether management monitors the outcome of accounting estimates made in the prior period, and whether
management has appropriately responded to the outcome of that monitoring procedure.
Reviewing Prior Period Accounting Estimates (Ref: Para. 9)

<!-- page 319 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
319A
A39. The outcome of an accounting estimate will often differ from the accounting estimate recognized in the prior period
financial statements. By performing risk assessment procedures to identify and understand the reasons for such
differences, the auditor may obtain:
* Information regarding the effectiveness of management’s prior period estimation process, from which the auditor
can judge the likely effectiveness of management’s current process.
* Audit evidence that is pertinent to the re-estimation, in the current period, of prior period accounting estimates.
* Audit evidence of matters, such as estimation uncertainty, that may be required to be disclosed in the financial
statements.
A40. The review of prior period accounting estimates may also assist the auditor, in the current period, in identifying
circumstances or conditions that increase the susceptibility of accounting estimates to, or indicate the presence of,
possible management bias. The auditor’s professional skepticism assists in identifying such circumstances or
conditions and in determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
A41. A retrospective review of management judgments and assumptions related to significant accounting estimates is also
required by SLAuS 240.
12 That review is conducted as part of the requirement for the auditor to design and perform
procedures to review accounting estimates for biases that could represent a risk of material misstatement due to
fraud, in response to the risks of management override of controls. As a practical matter, the auditor’s review of prior
period accounting estimates as a risk assessment procedure in accordance with this SLAuS may be carried out in
conjunction with the review required by SLAuS 240.
A42. The auditor may judge that a more detailed review is required for those accounting estimates that were identified
during the prior period audit as having high estimation uncertainty, or for those accounting estimates that have
changed significantly from the prior period. On the other hand, for example, for accounting estimates that arise from
the recording of routine and recurring transactions, the auditor may judge that the application of analytical procedures
as risk assessment procedures is sufficient for purposes of the review.
A43. For fair value accounting estimates and other accounting estimates based on current conditions at the measurement
date, more variation may exist between the fair value amount recognized in the prior period financial statements and
the outcome or the amount re-estimated for the purpose of the current period.  This is because the measurement
objective for such accounting estimates deals with perceptions about value at a point in time, which may change
significantly and rapidly as the environment in which the entity operates changes. The auditor may therefore focus
the review on obtaining information that would be relevant to identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement.
For example, in some cases obtaining an understanding of changes in marketplace participant assumptions which
affected the outcome of a prior period fair value accounting estimate may be unlikely to provide relevant information
for audit purposes. If so, then the auditor’s consideration of the outcome of prior period fair value accounting
estimates may be directed more towards understanding the effectiveness of management’s prior estimation process,
that is, management’s track record, from which the auditor can judge the likely effectiveness of management’s current
process.
A44. A difference between the outcome of an accounting estimate and the amount recognized in the prior period financial
statements does not necessarily represent a misstatement of the prior period financial statements. However, it may do
so if, for example, the difference arises from information that was available to management when the prior period’s
financial statements were finalized, or that could reasonably be expected to have been obtained and taken into
account in the preparation of those financial statements. Many financial reporting frameworks contain guidance on
distinguishing between changes in accounting estimates that constitute misstatements and changes that do not, and
the accounting treatment required to be followed.
12 SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraph 32(b)(ii).

<!-- page 320 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
320A
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement
Estimation Uncertainty (Ref: Para. 10)
A45. The degree of estimation uncertainty associated with an accounting estimate may be influenced by factors such as:
* The extent to which the accounting estimate depends on judgment.
* The sensitivity of the accounting estimate to changes in assumptions.
* The existence of recognized measurement techniques that may mitigate the estimation uncertainty (though the
subjectivity of the assumptions used as inputs may nevertheless give rise to estimation uncertainty).
* The length of the forecast period, and the relevance of data drawn from past events to forecast future events.
* The availability of reliable data from external sources.
* The extent to which the accounting estimate is based on observable or unobservable inputs.
The degree of estimation uncertainty associated with an accounting estimate may influence the estimate’s susceptibility
to bias.
A46. Matters that the auditor considers in assessing the risks of material misstatement may also include:
AUDITING
* The actual or expected magnitude of an accounting estimate.
* The recorded amount of the accounting estimate (that is, management’s point estimate) in relation to the amount
expected by the auditor to be recorded.
* Whether management has used an expert in making the accounting estimate.
* The outcome of the review of prior period accounting estimates.
High Estimation Uncertainty and Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 11)
A47. Examples of accounting estimates that may have high estimation uncertainty include the following:
* Accounting estimates that are highly dependent upon judgment, for example, judgments about the outcome of
pending litigation or the amount and timing of future cash flows dependent on uncertain events many years in
the future.
* Accounting estimates that are not calculated using recognized measurement techniques.
* Accounting estimates where the results of the auditor’s review of similar accounting estimates made in the prior
period financial statements indicate a substantial difference between the original accounting estimate and the
actual outcome.
* Fair value accounting estimates for which a highly specialized entity-developed model is used or for which there
are no observable inputs.
A48. A seemingly immaterial accounting estimate may have the potential to result in a material misstatement due to the
estimation uncertainty associated with the estimation; that is, the size of the amount recognized or disclosed in the
financial statements for an accounting estimate may not be an indicator of its estimation uncertainty.
A49. In some circumstances, the estimation uncertainty is so high that a reasonable accounting estimate cannot be made.
The applicable financial reporting framework may, therefore, preclude recognition of the item in the financial statements,
or its measurement at fair value. In such cases, the significant risks relate not only to whether an accounting estimate
should be recognized, or whether it should be measured at fair value, but also to the adequacy of the disclosures.

<!-- page 321 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
321A
With respect to such accounting estimates, the applicable financial reporting framework may require disclosure of the
accounting estimates and the high estimation uncertainty associated with them (see paragraphs A120-A123).
A50. If the auditor determines that an accounting estimate gives rise to a significant risk, the auditor is required to obtain
an understanding of the entity’s controls, including control activities. 13
A51. In some cases, the estimation uncertainty of an accounting estimate may cast significant doubt about the entity’s
ability to continue as a going concern. SLAuS 570 14 establishes requirements and provides guidance in such
circumstances.
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement (Ref: Para. 12)
A52. SLAuS 330 requires the auditor to design and perform audit procedures whose nature, timing and extent are responsive
to the assessed risks of material misstatement in relation to accounting estimates at both the financial statement and
assertion levels.
15 Paragraphs A53-A115 focus on specific responses at the assertion level only.
Application of the Requirements of the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework (Ref: Para. 12(a))
A53. Many financial reporting frameworks prescribe certain conditions for the recognition of accounting estimates and
specify the methods for making them and required disclosures. Such requirements may be complex and require the
application of judgment. Based on the understanding obtained in performing risk assessment procedures, the
requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework that may be susceptible to misapplication or differing
interpretations become the focus of the auditor’s attention.
A54. Determining whether management has appropriately applied the requirements of the applicable financial reporting
framework is based, in part, on the auditor’s understanding of the entity and its environment. For example, the
measurement of the fair value of some items, such as intangible assets acquired in a business combination, may
involve special considerations that are affected by the nature of the entity and its operations.
A55. In some situations, additional audit procedures, such as the inspection by the auditor of the current physical
condition of an asset, may be necessary to determine whether management has appropriately applied the requirements
of the applicable financial reporting framework.
A56. The application of the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework requires management to consider
changes in the environment or circumstances that affect the entity. For example, the introduction of an active market
for a particular class of asset or liability may indicate that the use of discounted cash flows to estimate the fair value
of such asset or liability is no longer appropriate.
Consistency in Methods and Basis for Changes (Ref: Para. 12(b))
A57. The auditor’s consideration of a change in an accounting estimate, or in the method for making it from the prior period,
is important because a change that is not based on a change in circumstances or new information is considered
arbitrary. Arbitrary changes in an accounting estimate result in inconsistent financial statements over time and may
give rise to a financial statement misstatement or be an indicator of possible management bias.
A58. Management often is able to demonstrate good reason for a change in an accounting estimate or the method for
making an accounting estimate from one period to another based on a change in circumstances. What constitutes a
good reason, and the adequacy of support for management’s contention that there has been a change in circumstances
that warrants a change in an accounting estimate or the method for making an accounting estimate, are matters of
judgment.
13 SLAuS 315, paragraph 29.
14 SLAuS 570, “Going Concern.“
15 SLAuS 330, paragraphs 5-6.

<!-- page 322 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
322A
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatements (Ref: Para. 13)
A59. The auditor’s decision as to which response, individually or in combination, in paragraph 13 to undertake to respond
to the risks of material misstatement may be influenced by such matters as:
* The nature of the accounting estimate, including whether it arises from routine or non routine transactions.
* Whether the procedure(s) is expected to effectively provide the auditor with sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
* The assessed risk of material misstatement, including whether the assessed risk is a significant risk.
A60. For example, when evaluating the reasonableness of the allowance for doubtful accounts, an effective procedure for
the auditor may be to review subsequent cash collections in combination with other procedures. Where the estimation
uncertainty associated with an accounting estimate is high, for example, an accounting estimate based on a proprietary
model for which there are unobservable inputs, it may be that a combination of the responses to assessed risks in
paragraph 13 is necessary in order to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
A61. Additional guidance explaining the circumstances in which each of the responses may be appropriate is provided in
paragraphs A62-A95.
Events Occurring Up to the Date of the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 13(a))
A62. Determining whether events occurring up to the date of the auditor’s report provide audit evidence regarding the
accounting estimate may be an appropriate response when such events are expected to:
* Occur; and
* Provide audit evidence that confirms or contradicts the accounting estimate.
A63. Events occurring up to the date of the auditor’s report may sometimes provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence
about an accounting estimate. For example, sale of the complete inventory of a superseded product shortly after the
period end may provide audit evidence relating to the estimate of its net realizable value. In such cases, there may be
no need to perform additional audit procedures on the accounting estimate, provided that sufficient appropriate
evidence about the events is obtained.
A64. For some accounting estimates, events occurring up to the date of the auditor’s report are unlikely to provide audit
evidence regarding the accounting estimate. For example, the conditions or events relating to some accounting
estimates develop only over an extended period. Also, because of the measurement objective of fair value accounting
estimates, information after the period-end may not reflect the events or conditions existing at the balance sheet date
and therefore may not be relevant to the measurement of the fair value accounting estimate. Paragraph 13 identifies
other responses to the risks of material misstatement that the auditor may undertake.
A65. In some cases, events that contradict the accounting estimate may indicate that management has ineffective processes
for making accounting estimates, or that there is management bias in the making of accounting estimates.
A66. Even though the auditor may decide not to undertake this approach in respect of specific accounting estimates, the
auditor is required to comply with SLAuS 560.
16 The auditor is required to perform audit procedures designed to
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence that all events occurring between the date of the financial statements and
the date of the auditor’s report that require adjustment of, or disclosure in, the financial statements have been
identified
17 and appropriately reflected in the financial statements. 18 Because the measurement of many accounting
estimates, other than fair value accounting estimates, usually depends on the outcome of future conditions, transactions
or events, the auditor’s work under SLAuS 560 is particularly relevant.
AUDITING
Considerations specific to smaller entities
16 SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events.”
17 SLAuS 560, paragraph 6.
18 SLAuS 560, paragraph 8

<!-- page 323 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
323A
A67. When there is a longer period between the balance sheet date and the date of the auditor’s report, the auditor’s review
of events in this period may be an effective response for accounting estimates other than fair value accounting
estimates. This may particularly be the case in some smaller owner-managed entities, especially when management
does not have formalized control procedures over accounting estimates.
Testing How Management Made the Accounting Estimate (Ref: Para. 13(b))
A68. Testing how management made the accounting estimate and the data on which it is based may be an appropriate
response when the accounting estimate is a fair value accounting estimate developed on a model that uses observable
and unobservable inputs. It may also be appropriate when, for example:
* The accounting estimate is derived from the routine processing of data by the entity’s accounting system.
* The auditor’s review of similar accounting estimates made in the prior period financial statements suggests that
management’s current period process is likely to be effective.
* The accounting estimate is based on a large population of items of a similar nature that individually are not
significant.
A69. Testing how management made the accounting estimate may involve, for example:
* Testing the extent to which data on which the accounting estimate is based is accurate, complete and relevant,
and whether the accounting estimate has been properly determined using such data and management assumptions.
* Considering the source, relevance and reliability of external data or information, including that received from
external experts engaged by management to assist in making an accounting estimate.
* Recalculating the accounting estimate, and reviewing information about an accounting estimate for internal
consistency.
* Considering management’s review and approval processes.
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A70. In smaller entities, the process for making accounting estimates is likely to be less structured than in larger entities.
Smaller entities with active management involvement may not have extensive descriptions of accounting procedures,
sophisticated accounting records, or written policies. Even if the entity has no formal established process, it does not
mean that management is not able to provide a basis upon which the auditor can test the accounting estimate.
Evaluating the method of measurement (Ref: Para. 13(b)(i))
A71. When the applicable financial reporting framework does not prescribe the method of measurement, evaluating whether
the method used, including any applicable model, is appropriate in the circumstances is a matter of professional
judgment.
A72. For this purpose, matters that the auditor may consider include, for example, whether:
* Management’s rationale for the method selected is reasonable.
* Management has sufficiently evaluated and appropriately applied the criteria, if any, provided in the applicable
financial reporting framework to support the selected method.
* The method is appropriate in the circumstances given the nature of the asset or liability being estimated and the
requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework relevant to accounting estimates.
* The method is appropriate in relation to the business, industry and environment in which the entity operates.
A73. In some cases, management may have determined that different methods result in a range of significantly different
estimates. In such cases, obtaining an understanding of how the entity has investigated the reasons for these
differences may assist the auditor in evaluating the appropriateness of the method selected.

<!-- page 324 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
324A
Evaluating the use of models
A74. In some cases, particularly when making fair value accounting estimates, management may use a model. Whether the
model used is appropriate in the circumstances may depend on a number of factors, such as the nature of the entity
and its environment, including the industry in which it operates, and the specific asset or liability being measured.
A75. The extent to which the following considerations are relevant depends on the circumstances, including whether the
model is one that is commercially available for use in a particular sector or industry, or a proprietary model. In some
cases, an entity may use an expert to develop and test a model.
A76. Depending on the circumstances, matters that the auditor may also consider in testing the model include, for example,
whether:
AUDITING
* The model is validated prior to usage, with periodic reviews to ensure it is still suitable for its intended use. The
entity’s validation process may include evaluation of:
o The model’s theoretical soundness and mathematical integrity, including the appropriateness of model
parameters.
o The consistency and completeness of the model’s inputs with market practices.
o The model’s output as compared to actual transactions.
* Appropriate change control policies and procedures exist.
* The model is periodically calibrated and tested for validity, particularly when inputs are subjective.
* Adjustments are made to the output of the model, including in the case of fair value accounting estimates,
whether such adjustments reflect the assumptions marketplace participants would use in similar circumstances.
* The model is adequately documented, including the model’s intended applications and limitations and its key
parameters, required inputs, and results of any validation analysis performed.
Assumptions used by management (Ref: Para. 13(b)(ii))
A77. The auditor’s evaluation of the assumptions used by management is based only on information available to the
auditor at the time of the audit. Audit procedures dealing with management assumptions are performed in the context
of the audit of the entity’s financial statements, and not for the purpose of providing an opinion on assumptions
themselves.
A78. Matters that the auditor may consider in evaluating the reasonableness of the assumptions used by management
include, for example:
* Whether individual assumptions appear reasonable.
* Whether the assumptions are interdependent and internally consistent.
* Whether the assumptions appear reasonable when considered collectively or in conjunction with other
assumptions, either for that accounting estimate or for other accounting estimates.
* In the case of fair value accounting estimates, whether the assumptions appropriately reflect observable
marketplace assumptions.

<!-- page 325 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
325A
A79. The assumptions on which accounting estimates are based may reflect what management expects will be the outcome
of specific objectives and strategies. In such cases, the auditor may perform audit procedures to evaluate the
reasonableness of such assumptions by considering, for example, whether the assumptions are consistent with:
* The general economic environment and the entity’s economic circumstances.
* The plans of the entity.
* Assumptions made in prior periods, if relevant.
* Experience of, or previous conditions experienced by, the entity, to the extent this historical information may be
considered representative of future conditions or events.
* Other assumptions used by management relating to the financial statements.
A80. The reasonableness of the assumptions used may depend on management’s intent and ability to carry out certain
courses of action. Management often documents plans and intentions relevant to specific assets or liabilities and the
financial reporting framework may require it to do so. Although the extent of audit evidence to be obtained about
management’s intent and ability is a matter of professional judgment, the auditor’s procedures may include the
following:
* Review of management’s history of carrying out its stated intentions.
* Review of written plans and other documentation, including, where applicable, formally approved budgets,
authorizations or minutes.
* Inquiry of management about its reasons for a particular course of action.
* Review of events occurring subsequent to the date of the financial statements and up to the date of the auditor’s
report.
* Evaluation of the entity’s ability to carry out a particular course of action given the entity’s economic circumstances,
including the implications of its existing commitments.
Certain financial reporting frameworks, however, may not permit management’s intentions or plans to be taken into account
when making an accounting estimate. This is often the case for fair value accounting estimates because their
measurement objective requires that assumptions reflect those used by marketplace participants.
A81. Matters that the auditor may consider in evaluating the reasonableness of assumptions used by management underlying
fair value accounting estimates, in addition to those discussed above where applicable, may include, for example:
* Where relevant, whether and, if so, how management has incorporated market-specific inputs into the development
of assumptions.
·AUDITING
* Whether the assumptions are consistent with observable market conditions, and the characteristics of the asset
or liability being measured at fair value.
* Whether the sources of market-participant assumptions are relevant and reliable, and how management has
selected the assumptions to use when a number of different market participant assumptions exist.
* Where appropriate, whether and, if so, how management considered assumptions used in, or information about,
comparable transactions, assets or liabilities.

<!-- page 326 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
326A
A82. Further, fair value accounting estimates may comprise observable inputs as well as unobservable inputs. Where fair
value accounting estimates are based on unobservable inputs, matters that the auditor may consider include, for
example, how management supports the following:
* The identification of the characteristics of marketplace participants relevant to the accounting estimate.
* Modifications it has made to its own assumptions to reflect its view of assumptions marketplace participants
would use.
* Whether it has incorporated the best information available in the circumstances.
* Where applicable, how its assumptions take account of comparable transactions, assets or liabilities.
If there are unobservable inputs, it is more likely that the auditor’s evaluation of the assumptions will need to be
combined with other responses to assessed risks in paragraph 13 in order to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence. In such cases, it may be necessary for the auditor to perform other audit procedures, for example, examining
documentation supporting the review and approval of the accounting estimate by appropriate levels of management
and, where appropriate, by those charged with governance.
A83. In evaluating the reasonableness of the assumptions supporting an accounting estimate, the auditor may identify
one or more significant assumptions. If so, it may indicate that the accounting estimate has high estimation uncertainty
and may, therefore, give rise to a significant risk. Additional responses to significant risks are described in paragraphs
A102-A115.
Testing the Operating Effectiveness of Controls (Ref: Para. 13(c))
A84. Testing the operating effectiveness of the controls over how management made the accounting estimate may be an
appropriate response when management’s process has been well-designed, implemented and maintained, for example:
* Controls exist for the review and approval of the accounting estimates by appropriate levels of management and,
where appropriate, by those charged with governance.
* The accounting estimate is derived from the routine processing of data by the entity’s accounting system.
A85. Testing the operating effectiveness of the controls is required when:
(a) The auditor’s assessment of risks of material misstatement at the assertion level includes an expectation that
controls over the process are operating effectively; or
(b) Substantive procedures alone do not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence at the assertion level.
19
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A86. Controls over the process to make an accounting estimate may exist in smaller entities, but the formality with which
they operate varies. Further, smaller entities may determine that certain types of controls are not necessary because
of active management involvement in the financial reporting process. In the case of very small entities, however, there
may not be many controls that the auditor can identify. For this reason, the auditor’s response to the assessed risks
is likely to be substantive in nature, with the auditor performing one or more of the other responses in paragraph 13.
19 IAS 330, paragraph 8.

<!-- page 327 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
327A
Developing a Point Estimate or Range (Ref: Para. 13(d))
A87. Developing a point estimate or a range to evaluate management’s point estimate may be an appropriate response
where, for example:
* An accounting estimate is not derived from the routine processing of data by the accounting system.
* The auditor’s review of similar accounting estimates made in the prior period financial statements suggests that
management’s current period process is unlikely to be effective.
* The entity’s controls within and over management’s processes for determining accounting estimates are not well
designed or properly implemented.
* Events or transactions between the period end and the date of the auditor’s report contradict management’s
point estimate.
* There are alternative sources of relevant data available to the auditor which can be used in making a point
estimate or a range.
A88. Even where the entity’s controls are well designed and properly implemented, developing a point estimate or a range
may be an effective or efficient response to the assessed risks. In other situations, the auditor may consider this
approach as part of determining whether further procedures are necessary and, if so, their nature and extent.
A89. The approach taken by the auditor in developing either a point estimate or a range may vary based on what is
considered most effective in the circumstances. For example, the auditor may initially develop a preliminary point
estimate, and then assess its sensitivity to changes in assumptions to ascertain a range with which to evaluate
management’s point estimate. Alternatively, the auditor may begin by developing a range for purposes of determining,
where possible, a point estimate.
A90. The ability of the auditor to make a point estimate, as opposed to a range, depends on several factors, including the
model used, the nature and extent of data available and the estimation uncertainty involved with the accounting
estimate. Further, the decision to develop a point estimate or range may be influenced by the applicable financial
reporting framework, which may prescribe the point estimate that is to be used after consideration of the alternative
outcomes and assumptions, or prescribe a specific measurement method (for example, the use of a discounted
probability-weighted expected value).
A91. The auditor may develop a point estimate or a range in a number of ways, for example, by:
* Using a model, for example, one that is commercially available for use in a particular sector or industry, or a
proprietary or auditor-developed model.
* Further developing management’s consideration of alternative assumptions or outcomes, for example, by
introducing a different set of assumptions.
* Employing or engaging a person with specialized expertise to develop or execute the model, or to provide
relevant assumptions.
* Making reference to other comparable conditions, transactions or events, or, where relevant, markets for
comparable assets or liabilities.
Understanding Management’s Assumptions or Method (Ref: Para. 13(d)(i))

<!-- page 328 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
328A
A92. When the auditor makes a point estimate or a range and uses assumptions or a method different from those used by
management, paragraph 13(d)(i) requires the auditor to obtain a sufficient understanding of the assumptions or
method used by management in making the accounting estimate. This understanding provides the auditor with
information that may be relevant to the auditor’s development of an appropriate point estimate or range. Further, it
assists the auditor to understand and evaluate any significant differences from management’s point estimate. For
example, a difference may arise because the auditor used different, but equally valid, assumptions as compared with
those used by management. This may reveal that the accounting estimate is highly sensitive to certain assumptions
and therefore subject to high estimation uncertainty, indicating that the accounting estimate may be a significant risk.
Alternatively, a difference may arise as a result of a factual error made by management. Depending on the circumstances,
the auditor may find it helpful in drawing conclusions to discuss with management the basis for the assumptions used
and their validity, and the difference, if any, in the approach taken to making the accounting estimate.
Narrowing a Range (Ref: Para. 13(d)(ii))
A93. When the auditor concludes that it is appropriate to use a range to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s
point estimate (the auditor’s range), paragraph 13(d)(ii) requires that range to encompass all “reasonable outcomes”
rather than all possible outcomes. The range cannot be one that comprises all possible outcomes if it is to be useful,
as such a range would be too wide to be effective for purposes of the audit. The auditor’s range is useful and effective
when it is sufficiently narrow to enable the auditor to conclude whether the accounting estimate is misstated.
A94. Ordinarily, a range that has been narrowed to be equal to or less than performance materiality is adequate for the
purposes of evaluating the reasonableness of management’s point estimate. However, particularly in certain industries,
it may not be possible to narrow the range to below such an amount. This does not necessarily preclude recognition
of the accounting estimate. It may indicate, however, that the estimation uncertainty associated with the accounting
estimate is such that it gives rise to a significant risk. Additional responses to significant risks are described in
paragraphs A102-A115.
A95. Narrowing the range to a position where all outcomes within the range are considered reasonable may be achieved by:
(a) Eliminating from the range those outcomes at the extremities of the range judged by the auditor to be unlikely
to occur; and
(b) Continuing to narrow the range, based on audit evidence available, until the auditor concludes that all outcomes
within the range are considered reasonable. In some rare cases, the auditor may be able to narrow the range until
the audit evidence indicates a point estimate.
Considering whether Specialized Skills or Knowledge Are Required (Ref: Para. 14)
96. In planning the audit, the auditor is required to ascertain the nature, timing and extent of resources necessary to
perform the audit engagement.
20 This may include, as necessary, the involvement of those with specialized skills or
knowledge. In addition, SLAuS 220 requires the engagement partner to be satisfied that the engagement team, and
any auditor’s external experts who are not part of the engagement team, collectively have the appropriate competence
and capabilities to perform the audit engagement.21 During the course of the audit of accounting estimates the auditor
may identify, in light of the experience of the auditor and the circumstances of the engagement, the need for specialized
skills or knowledge to be applied in relation to one or more aspects of the accounting estimates.
20 SLAuS 300, “Planning an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraph 8(e)
21 SLAuS 220, “Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraph 14.

<!-- page 329 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
329A
A97. Matters that may affect the auditor’s consideration of whether specialized skills or knowledge is required include, for
example:
* The nature of the underlying asset, liability or component of equity in a particular business or industry (for
example, mineral deposits, agricultural assets, complex financial instruments).
* A high degree of estimation uncertainty.
* Complex calculations or specialized models are involved, for example, when estimating fair values when there is
no observable market.
* The complexity of the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework relevant to accounting
estimates, including whether there are areas known to be subject to differing interpretation or practice is inconsistent
or developing.
* The procedures the auditor intends to undertake in responding to assessed risks.
A98. For the majority of accounting estimates, even when there is estimation uncertainty, it is unlikely that specialized
skills or knowledge will be required. For example, it is unlikely that specialized skills or knowledge would be necessary
for an auditor to evaluate an allowance for doubtful accounts.
A99. However, the auditor may not possess the specialized skills or knowledge required when the matter involved is in a
field other than accounting or auditing and may need to obtain it from an auditor’s expert. SLAuS 620
22 establishes
requirements and provides guidance in determining the need to employ or engage an auditor’s expert and the
auditor’s responsibilities when using the work of an auditor’s expert.
A100.Further, in some cases, the auditor may conclude that it is necessary to obtain specialized skills or knowledge related
to specific areas of accounting or auditing. Individuals with such skills or knowledge may be employed by the
auditor’s firm or engaged from an external organization outside of the auditor’s firm. Where such individuals perform
audit procedures on the engagement, they are part of the engagement team and accordingly, they are subject to the
requirements in SLAuS 220.
A101.Depending on the auditor’s understanding and experience of working with the auditor’s expert or those other individuals
with specialized skills or knowledge, the auditor may consider it appropriate to discuss matters such as the requirements
of the applicable financial reporting framework with the individuals involved to establish that their work is relevant for
audit purposes.
Further Substantive Procedures to Respond to Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 15)
A102.In auditing accounting estimates that give rise to significant risks, the auditor’s further substantive procedures are
focused on the evaluation of:
(a) How management has assessed the effect of estimation uncertainty on the accounting estimate, and the effect
such uncertainty may have on the appropriateness of the recognition of the accounting estimate in the financial
statements; and
(b) The adequacy of related disclosures.
22 SLAuS 620, “Using the Work of an Auditor’s Expert.”

<!-- page 330 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
330A
Estimation Uncertainty
Management’s Consideration of Estimation Uncertainty (Ref: Para. 15(a))
A103.Management may evaluate alternative assumptions or outcomes of the accounting estimates through a number of
methods, depending on the circumstances. One possible method used by management is to undertake a sensitivity
analysis. This might involve determining how the monetary amount of an accounting estimate varies with different
assumptions. Even for accounting estimates measured at fair value there can be variation because different market
participants will use different assumptions. A sensitivity analysis could lead to the development of a number of
outcome scenarios, sometimes characterized as a range of outcomes by management, such as “pessimistic” and
“optimistic” scenarios.
A104.A sensitivity analysis may demonstrate that an accounting estimate is not sensitive to changes in particular
assumptions. Alternatively, it may demonstrate that the accounting estimate is sensitive to one or more assumptions
that then become the focus of the auditor’s attention.
AUDITING
A105.This is not intended to suggest that one particular method of addressing estimation uncertainty (such as sensitivity
analysis) is more suitable than another, or that management’s consideration of alternative assumptions or outcomes
needs to be conducted through a detailed process supported by extensive documentation. Rather, it is whether
management has assessed how estimation uncertainty may affect the accounting estimate that is important, not the
specific manner in which it is done. Accordingly, where management has not considered alternative assumptions or
outcomes, it may be necessary for the auditor to discuss with management, and request support for, how it has
addressed the effects of estimation uncertainty on the accounting estimate.
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A106.Smaller entities may use simple means to assess the estimation uncertainty. In addition to the auditor’s review of
available documentation, the auditor may obtain other audit evidence of management consideration of alternative
assumptions or outcomes by inquiry of management. In addition, management may not have the expertise to consider
alternative outcomes or otherwise address the estimation uncertainty of the accounting estimate. In such cases, the
auditor may explain to management the process or the different methods available for doing so, and the documentation
thereof. This would not, however, change the responsibilities of management for the preparation of the financial
statements.
Significant Assumptions (Ref: Para. 15(b))
A107.An assumption used in making an accounting estimate may be deemed to be significant if a reasonable variation in the
assumption would materially affect the measurement of the accounting estimate.
A108.Support for significant assumptions derived from management’s knowledge may be obtained from management’s
continuing processes of strategic analysis and risk management. Even without formal established processes, such as
may be the case in smaller entities, the auditor may be able to evaluate the assumptions through inquiries of and
discussions with management, along with other audit procedures in order to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence.
A109.The auditor’s considerations in evaluating assumptions made by management are described in paragraphs A77-A83.
Management Intent and Ability (Ref: Para. 15(c))
A110.The auditor’s considerations in relation to assumptions made by management and management’s intent and ability
are described in paragraphs A13 and A80.

<!-- page 331 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
331A
Development of a Range (Ref: Para. 16)
A111.In preparing the financial statements, management may be satisfied that it has adequately addressed the effects of
estimation uncertainty on the accounting estimates that give rise to significant risks. In some circumstances, however,
the auditor may view the efforts of management as inadequate. This may be the case, for example, where, in the
auditor’s judgment:
* Sufficient appropriate audit evidence could not be obtained through the auditor’s evaluation of how management
has addressed the effects of estimation uncertainty.
* It is necessary to explore further the degree of estimation uncertainty associated with an accounting estimate, for
example, where the auditor is aware of wide variation in outcomes for similar accounting estimates in similar
circumstances.
* It is unlikely that other audit evidence can be obtained, for example, through the review of events occurring up
to the date of the auditor’s report.
* Indicators of management bias in the making of accounting estimates may exist.
A112.The auditor’s considerations in determining a range for this purpose are described in paragraphs A87-A95.
Recognition and Measurement Criteria
Recognition of the Accounting Estimates in the Financial Statements (Ref: Para.17(a))
A113.Where management has recognized an accounting estimate in the financial statements, the focus of the auditor’s
evaluation is on whether the measurement of the accounting estimate is sufficiently reliable to meet the recognition
criteria of the applicable financial reporting framework.
A114.With respect to accounting estimates that have not been recognized, the focus of the auditor’s evaluation is on
whether the recognition criteria of the applicable financial reporting framework have in fact been met. Even where an
accounting estimate has not been recognized, and the auditor concludes that this treatment is appropriate, there may
be a need for disclosure of the circumstances in the notes to the financial statements. The auditor may also determine
that there is a need to draw the reader’s attention to a significant uncertainty by adding an Emphasis of Matter
paragraph to the auditor’s report. SLAuS 706
23 establishes requirements and provides guidance concerning such
paragraphs.
Measurement Basis for the Accounting Estimates (Ref: Para. 17(b))
A115.With respect to fair value accounting estimates, some financial reporting frameworks presume that fair value can be
measured reliably as a prerequisite to either requiring or permitting fair value measurements and disclosures. In some
cases, this presumption may be overcome when, for example, there is no appropriate method or basis for measurement.
In such cases, the focus of the auditor’s evaluation is on whether management’s basis for overcoming the presumption
relating to the use of fair value set forth under the applicable financial reporting framework is appropriate.
Evaluating the Reasonableness of the Accounting Estimates, and Determining Misstatements (Ref: Para. 18)
A116.Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor may conclude that the evidence points to an accounting estimate
that differs from management’s point estimate. Where the audit evidence supports a point estimate, the difference
between the auditor’s point estimate and management’s point estimate constitutes a misstatement. Where the auditor
has concluded that using the auditor’s range provides sufficient appropriate audit evidence, a management point
estimate that lies outside the auditor’s range would not be supported by audit evidence. In such cases, the misstatement
is no less than the difference between management’s point estimate and the nearest point of the auditor’s range.
23 SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of matter Paragraphs and other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”

<!-- page 332 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
332A
A117.Where management has changed an accounting estimate, or the method in making it, from the prior period based on
a subjective assessment that there has been a change in circumstances, the auditor may conclude based on the audit
evidence that the accounting estimate is misstated as a result of an arbitrary change by management, or may regard
it as an indicator of possible management bias (see paragraphs A124-A125).
A118.SLAuS 450
24 provides guidance on distinguishing misstatements for purposes of the auditor’s evaluation of the
effect of uncorrected misstatements on the financial statements. In relation to accounting estimates, a misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or error, may arise as a result of:
* Misstatements about which there is no doubt (factual misstatements).
* Differences arising from management’s judgments concerning accounting estimates that the auditor considers
unreasonable, or the selection or application of accounting policies that the auditor considers inappropriate
(judgmental misstatements).
* The auditor’s best estimate of misstatements in populations, involving the projection of misstatements identified
in audit samples to the entire populations from which the samples were drawn (projected misstatements).
In some cases involving accounting estimates, a misstatement could arise as a result of a combination of these
circumstances, making separate identification difficult or impossible.
A119.Evaluating the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures included in the notes to the financial
statements, whether required by the applicable financial reporting framework or disclosed voluntarily, involves
essentially the same types of considerations applied when auditing an accounting estimate recognized in the financial
statements.
Disclosures Related to Accounting Estimates
Disclosures in Accordance with the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework (Ref: Para. 19)
A120.The presentation of financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework includes
adequate disclosure of material matters. The applicable financial reporting framework may permit, or prescribe,
disclosures related to accounting estimates, and some entities may disclose voluntarily additional information in the
notes to the financial statements.  These disclosures may include, for example:
* The assumptions used.
* The method of estimation used, including any applicable model.
* The basis for the selection of the method of estimation.
* The effect of any changes to the method of estimation from the prior period.
* The sources and implications of estimation uncertainty.
Such disclosures are relevant to users in understanding the accounting estimates recognized or disclosed in the
financial statements, and sufficient appropriate audit evidence needs to be obtained about whether the disclosures
are in accordance with the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework.
24 SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements identified during the Audit.”

<!-- page 333 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
333A
A121.In some cases, the applicable financial reporting framework may require specific disclosures regarding uncertainties.
For example, some financial reporting frameworks prescribe:
* The disclosure of key assumptions and other sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities. Such requirements may be
described using terms such as “Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty” or “Critical Accounting Estimates.”·UDITING
* The disclosure of the range of possible outcomes, and the assumptions used in determining the range.
* The disclosure of information regarding the significance of fair value accounting estimates to the entity’s
financial position and performance.
* Qualitative disclosures such as the exposures to risk and how they arise, the entity’s objectives, policies and
procedures for managing the risk and the methods used to measure the risk and any changes from the previous
period of these qualitative concepts.
* Quantitative disclosures such as the extent to which the entity is exposed to risk, based on information provided
internally to the entity’s key management personnel, including credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
Disclosures of Estimation Uncertainty for Accounting Estimates that Give Rise to Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 20)
A122.In relation to accounting estimates having significant risk, even where the disclosures are in accordance with the
applicable financial reporting framework, the auditor may conclude that the disclosure of estimation uncertainty is
inadequate in light of the circumstances and facts involved. The auditor’s evaluation of the adequacy of disclosure
of estimation uncertainty increases in importance the greater the range of possible outcomes of the accounting
estimate is in relation to materiality (see related discussion in paragraph A94).
A123.In some cases, the auditor may consider it appropriate to encourage management to describe, in the notes to the
financial statements, the circumstances relating to the estimation uncertainty. SLAuS 705
25 provides guidance on the
implications for the auditor’s opinion when the auditor believes that management’s disclosure of estimation uncertainty
in the financial statements is inadequate or misleading.
Indicators of Possible Management Bias (Ref: Para. 21)
A124.During the audit, the auditor may become aware of judgments and decisions made by management which give rise to
indicators of possible management bias. Such indicators may affect the auditor’s conclusion as to whether the
auditor’s risk assessment and related responses remain appropriate, and the auditor may need to consider the
implications for the rest of the audit. Further, they may affect the auditor’s evaluation of whether the financial
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, as discussed in SLAuS 700.
26
A125.Examples of indicators of possible management bias with respect to accounting estimates include:
* Changes in an accounting estimate, or the method for making it, where management has made a subjective
assessment that there has been a change in circumstances.
* Use of an entity’s own assumptions for fair value accounting estimates when they are inconsistent with observable
marketplace assumptions.
* Selection or construction of significant assumptions that yield a point estimate favorable for management
objectives.
* Selection of a point estimate that may indicate a pattern of optimism or pessimism.
25 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”
26 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements.”

<!-- page 334 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
334A
Written Representations (Ref: Para. 22)
A126.SLAuS 58027 discusses the use of written representations. Depending on the nature, materiality and extent of estimation
uncertainty, written representations about accounting estimates recognized or disclosed in the financial statements
may include representations:
* About the appropriateness of the measurement processes, including related assumptions and models, used by
management in determining accounting estimates in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework,
and the consistency in application of the processes.
* That the assumptions appropriately reflect management’s intent and ability to carry out specific courses of
action on behalf of the entity, where relevant to the accounting estimates and disclosures.
* That disclosures related to accounting estimates are complete and appropriate under the applicable financial
reporting framework.
* That no subsequent event requires adjustment to the accounting estimates and disclosures included in the
financial statements.
A127.For those accounting estimates not recognized or disclosed in the financial statements, written representations may
also include representations about:
* The appropriateness of the basis used by management for determining that the recognition or disclosure criteria
of the applicable financial reporting framework have not been met (see paragraph A114).
* The appropriateness of the basis used by management to overcome the presumption relating to the use of fair
value set forth under the entity’s applicable financial reporting framework, for those accounting estimates not
measured or disclosed at fair value (see paragraph A115).
Documentation (Ref: Para. 23)
A128.Documentation of indicators of possible management bias identified during the audit assists the auditor in concluding
whether the auditor’s risk assessment and related responses remain appropriate, and in evaluating whether the
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. See paragraph A125 for examples of indicators of
possible management bias.
Appendix
(Ref: Para. A1)
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures under Different Financial Reporting Frameworks
The purpose of this Appendix is only to provide a general discussion of fair value measurements and disclosures under
different financial reporting frameworks, for background and context.
1. Different financial reporting frameworks require or permit a variety of fair value measurements and disclosures in
financial statements. They also vary in the level of guidance that they provide on the basis for measuring assets and
liabilities or the related disclosures. Some financial reporting frameworks give prescriptive guidance, others give
general guidance, and some give no guidance at all. In addition, certain industry-specific measurement and disclosure
practices for fair values also exist.
27 SLAuS 580, “Written Representation.”

<!-- page 335 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
335A
2. Definitions of fair value may differ among financial reporting frameworks, or for different assets, liabilities or disclosures
within a particular framework. For example, Sri Lanka Accounting Standard (LKAS) 3928 defines fair value as “the
amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an
arm’s length transaction.” The concept of fair value ordinarily assumes a current transaction, rather than settlement
at some past or future date. Accordingly, the process of measuring fair value would be a search for the estimated price
at which that transaction would occur. Additionally, different financial reporting frameworks may use such terms as
“entity-specific value,” “value in use,” or similar terms, but may still fall within the concept of fair value in this SLAuS.
3. Financial reporting frameworks may treat changes in fair value measurements that occur over time in different ways.
For example, a particular financial reporting framework may require that changes in fair value measurements of certain
assets or liabilities be reflected directly in equity, while such changes might be reflected in income under another
framework. In some frameworks, the determination of whether to use fair value accounting or how it is applied is
influenced by management’s intent to carry out certain courses of action with respect to the specific asset or liability.
4. Different financial reporting frameworks may require certain specific fair value measurements and disclosures in
financial statements and prescribe or permit them in varying degrees. The financial reporting frameworks may:
* Prescribe measurement, presentation and disclosure requirements for certain information included in the financial
statements or for information disclosed in notes to financial statements or presented as supplementary information;
* Permit certain measurements using fair values at the option of an entity or only when certain criteria have been
met;
* Prescribe a specific method for determining fair value, for example, through the use of an independent appraisal
or specified ways of using discounted cash flows;
* Permit a choice of method for determining fair value from among several alternative methods (the criteria for
selection may or may not be provided by the financial reporting framework); or
* Provide no guidance on the fair value measurements or disclosures of fair value other than their use being
evident through custom or practice, for example, an industry practice.
5. Some financial reporting frameworks presume that fair value can be measured reliably for assets or liabilities as a
prerequisite to either requiring or permitting fair value measurements or disclosures. In some cases, this presumption
may be overcome when an asset or liability does not have a quoted market price in an active market and for which
other methods of reasonably estimating fair value are clearly inappropriate or unworkable. Some financial reporting
frameworks may specify a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes inputs for use in arriving at fair values ranging from
those that involve clearly “observable inputs” based on quoted prices and active markets and those “unobservable
inputs” that involve an entity’s own judgments about assumptions that marketplace participants would use.
6. Some financial reporting frameworks require certain specified adjustments or modifications to valuation information,
or other considerations unique to a particular asset or liability. For example, accounting for investment properties may
require adjustments to be made to an appraised market value, such as adjustments for estimated closing costs on sale,
adjustments related to the property’s condition and location, and other matters. Similarly, if the market for a particular
asset is not an active market, published price quotations may have to be adjusted or modified to arrive at a more
suitable measure of fair value. For example, quoted market prices may not be indicative of fair value if there is
infrequent activity in the market, the market is not well established, or small volumes of units are traded relative to the
aggregate number of trading units in existence. Accordingly, such market prices may have to be adjusted or modified.
Alternative sources of market information may be needed to make such adjustments or modifications. Further, in some
cases, collateral assigned (for example, when collateral is assigned for certain types of investment in debt) may need
to be considered in determining the fair value or possible impairment of an asset or liability.
28 LKAS 39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.”

<!-- page 336 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
336A
7. In most financial reporting frameworks, underlying the concept of fair value measurements is a presumption that the
entity is a going concern without any intention or need to liquidate, curtail materially the scale of its operations, or
undertake a transaction on adverse terms. Therefore, in this case, fair value would not be the amount that an entity
would receive or pay in a forced transaction, involuntary liquidation, or distress sale. On the other hand, general
economic conditions or economic conditions specific to certain industries may cause illiquidity in the marketplace
and require fair values to be predicated upon depressed prices, potentially significantly depressed prices. An entity,
however, may need to take its current economic or operating situation into account in determining the fair values of
its assets and liabilities if prescribed or permitted to do so by its financial reporting framework and such framework
may or may not specify how that is done. For example, management’s plan to dispose of an asset on an accelerated
basis to meet specific business objectives may be relevant to the determination of the fair value of that asset.
Prevalence of Fair Value Measurements
8. Measurements and disclosures based on fair value are becoming increasingly prevalent in financial reporting
frameworks. Fair values may occur in, and affect the determination of, financial statements in a number of ways,
including the measurement at fair value of the following:
* Specific assets or liabilities, such as marketable securities or liabilities to settle an obligation under a financial
instrument, routinely or periodically “marked-to-market.”
* Specific components of equity, for example when accounting for the recognition, measurement and presentation
of certain financial instruments with equity features, such as a bond convertible by the holder into common
shares of the issuer.
* Specific assets or liabilities acquired in a business combination. For example, the initial determination of goodwill
arising on the purchase of an entity in a business combination usually is based on the fair value measurement of
the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and the fair value of the consideration given.
* Specific assets or liabilities adjusted to fair value on a one-time basis. Some financial reporting frameworks may
require the use of a fair value measurement to quantify an adjustment to an asset or a group of assets as part of
an asset impairment determination, for example, a test of impairment of goodwill acquired in a business combination
based on the fair value of a defined operating entity or reporting unit, the value of  which is then allocated among
the entity’s or unit’s group of assets and liabilities in order to derive an implied goodwill for comparison to the
recorded goodwill.
* Aggregations of assets and liabilities. In some circumstances, the measurement of a class or group of assets or
liabilities calls for an aggregation of fair values of some of the individual assets or liabilities in such class or
group. For example, under an entity’s applicable financial reporting framework, the measurement of a diversified
loan portfolio might be determined based on the fair value of some categories of loans comprising the portfolio.
* Information disclosed in notes to financial statements or presented as supplementary information, but not
recognized in the financial statements.

<!-- page 337 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
337A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  550
RELATED PARTIES
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ...................................................................................................................................... 1
Nature of Related Party Relationships and Transactions .........................................................................2
Responsibilities of the Auditor ...................................................................................................................... 3-7
Effective Date  .................................................................................................................................................. 8
Objectives ........................................................................................................................................................ 9
Definitions ...................................................................................................................................................... 10
Requirements
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ................................................................................ 11-17
  Identification and Assessment of the Risks of Material
  Misstatement Associated with Related Party Relationships
  and Transactions ………………………………….................................................................………......... 18-19
Responses to the Risks of Material Misstatement Associated with
 Related Party Relationships and Transactions .......................................................................................... 20-24
Evaluation of the Accounting for and Disclosure of Identified Related
 Party Relationships and Transactions ....................................................................................................... 25
Written Representations ................................................................................................................................2 6
Communication with Those Charged with Governance ............................................................................ 27
Documentation ...............................................................................................................................................  28
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Responsibilities of the Auditor  .................................................................................................................... A1-A3
Definition of a Related Party  .........................................................................................................................  A4-A7
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ................................................................................A8-A28
 Identification and Assessment of the Risks of Material
 Misstatement Associated with Related Party Relationships
 and Transactions ………………………...................................................................………………............. A29-A30
Responses to the Risks of Material Misstatement Associated with
Related Party Relationships and Transactions ..........................................................................................A31-A45
Evaluation of the Accounting for and Disclosure of Identified Related
Party Relationships and Transactions  ........................................................................................................A46-A47
Written Representations  ................................................................................................................................  A48-A49
Communication with Those Charged with Governance  ............................................................................ A50
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 550, “Related Parties” should be read in conjunction
with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit
in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”

<!-- page 338 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
338A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to related party relationships
and transactions in an audit of financial statements. Specifically, it expands on how SLAuS 315, 1 SLAuS 330,2 and
SLAuS 2403 are to be applied in relation to risks of material misstatement associated with related party relationships
and transactions.
Nature of Related Party Relationships and Transactions
2. Many related party transactions are in the normal course of business. In such circumstances, they may carry no
higher risk of material misstatement of the financial statements than similar transactions with unrelated parties.
However, the nature of related party relationships and transactions may, in some circumstances, give rise to higher
risks of material misstatement of the financial statements than transactions with unrelated parties. For example:
* Related parties may operate through an extensive and complex range of relationships and structures, with a
corresponding increase in the complexity of related party transactions.
* Information systems may be ineffective at identifying or summarizing transactions and outstanding balances
between an entity and its related parties.
* Related party transactions may not be conducted under normal market terms and conditions; for example, some
related party transactions may be conducted with no exchange of consideration.
Responsibilities of the Auditor
3. Because related parties are not independent of each other, many financial reporting frameworks establish specific
accounting and disclosure requirements for related party relationships, transactions and balances to enable users of
the financial statements to understand their nature and actual or potential effects on the financial statements. Where
the applicable financial reporting framework establishes such requirements, the auditor has a responsibility to perform
audit procedures to identify, assess and respond to the risks of material misstatement arising from the entity’s failure
to appropriately account for or disclose related party relationships, transactions or balances in accordance with the
requirements of the framework.
AUDITING
4. Even if the applicable financial reporting framework establishes minimal or no related party requirements, the auditor
nevertheless needs to obtain an understanding of the entity’s related party relationships and transactions sufficient
to be able to conclude whether the financial statements, insofar as they are affected by those relationships and
transactions: (Ref: Para. A1)
(a) Achieve fair presentation (for fair presentation frameworks); or (Ref: Para. A2)
(b) Are not misleading (for compliance frameworks). (Ref: Para. A3)
5. In addition, an understanding of the entity’s related party relationships and transactions is relevant to the auditor’s
evaluation of whether one or more fraud risk factors are present as required by SLAuS 240,
4 because fraud may be
more easily committed through related parties.
1 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment.”
2 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”
3 SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements.”
4 SLAuS 240, paragraph 24.

<!-- page 339 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
339A
6. Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that some material misstatements of the
financial statements may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance
with the SLAuSs.
5 In the context of related parties, the potential effects of inherent limitations on the auditor’s ability
to detect material misstatements are greater for such reasons as the following:
* Management may be unaware of the existence of all related party relationships and transactions, particularly if
the applicable financial reporting framework does not establish related party requirements.
* Related party relationships may present a greater opportunity for collusion, concealment or manipulation by
management.
7. Planning and performing the audit with professional skepticism as required by SLAuS 200 6 is therefore particularly
important in this context, given the potential for undisclosed related party relationships and transactions. The
requirements in this SLAuS are designed to assist the auditor in identifying and assessing the risks of material
misstatement associated with related party relationships and transactions, and in designing audit procedures to
respond to the assessed risks.
Effective Date
8. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
9. The objectives of the auditor are:
(a) Irrespective of whether the applicable financial reporting framework establishes related party requirements, to
obtain an understanding of related party relationships and transactions sufficient to be able:
(i) To recognize fraud risk factors, if any, arising from related party relationships and transactions that are
relevant to the identification and assessment of the risks of material misstatement due to fraud; and
(ii) To conclude, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether the financial statements, insofar as they are
affected by those relationships and transactions:
a. Achieve fair presentation (for fair presentation frameworks); or
b. Are not misleading (for compliance frameworks); and
(b) In addition, where the applicable financial reporting framework establishes related party requirements, to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence about whether related party relationships and transactions have been
appropriately identified, accounted for and disclosed in the financial statements in accordance with the framework.
Definitions
10. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Arm’s length transaction – A transaction conducted on such terms and conditions as between a willing buyer
and a willing seller who are unrelated and are acting independently of each other and pursuing their own best
interests.
(b) Related party – A party that is either: (Ref: Para. A4-A7)
(i) A related party as defined in the applicable financial reporting framework; or
(ii) Where the applicable financial reporting framework establishes minimal or no related party requirements:
a. A person or other entity that has control or significant influence, directly or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, over the reporting entity;
5 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph A52.
6 SLAuS 200, paragraph 15.

<!-- page 340 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
340A
b. Another entity over which the reporting entity has control or significant influence, directly or indirectly
through one or more intermediaries; or
c. Another entity that is under common control with the reporting entity through having:
i. Common controlling ownership;
ii. Owners who are close family members; or
iii. Common key management.
However, entities that are under common control by a state (that is, a national, regional or local government) are not
considered related unless they engage in significant transactions or share resources to a significant extent with one
another.
Requirements
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities
11. As part of the risk assessment procedures and related activities that SLAuS 315 and SLAuS 240 require the auditor to
perform during the audit,
7 the auditor shall perform the audit procedures and related activities set out in paragraphs
12-17 to obtain information relevant to identifying the risks of material misstatement associated with related party
relationships and transactions. (Ref: Para. A8)
Understanding the Entity’ s Related Party Relationships and Transactions
12. The engagement team discussion that SLAuS 315 and SLAuS 240 require
8 shall include specific consideration of the
susceptibility of the financial statements to material misstatement due to fraud or error that could result from the
entity’s related party relationships and transactions. (Ref: Para. A9-A10)
13. The auditor shall inquire of management regarding:
(a) The identity of the entity’s related parties, including changes from the prior period; (Ref: Para. A11-A14)
(b) The nature of the relationships between the entity and these related parties; and
(c) Whether the entity entered into any transactions with these related parties during the period and, if so, the type
and purpose of the transactions.
14. The auditor shall inquire of management and others within the entity, and perform other risk assessment procedures
considered appropriate, to obtain an understanding of the controls, if any, that management has established to: (Ref:
Para. A15-A20)
(a) Identify, account for, and disclose related party relationships and transactions in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting framework;
(b) Authorize and approve significant transactions and arrangements with related parties; and (Ref: Para. A21)
(c) Authorize and approve significant transactions and arrangements outside the normal course of business.
7 SLAuS 315, paragraph 5; SLAuS 240, paragraph 16.
8 SLAuS 315, paragraph 10; SLAuS 240, paragraph 15.

<!-- page 341 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
341A
Maintaining Alertness for Related Party Information When Reviewing Records or Documents
15. During the audit, the auditor shall remain alert, when inspecting records or documents, for arrangements or other
information that may indicate the existence of related party relationships or transactions that management has not
previously identified or disclosed to the auditor. (Ref: Para. A22-A23)
In particular, the auditor shall inspect the following for indications of the existence of related party relationships or
transactions that management has not previously identified or disclosed to the auditor:
(a) Bank and legal confirmations obtained as part of the auditor’s procedures;
(b) Minutes of meetings of shareholders and of those charged with governance; and
(c) Such other records or documents as the auditor considers necessary in the circumstances of the entity.
16. If the auditor identifies significant transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business when performing the
audit procedures required by paragraph 15 or through other audit procedures, the auditor shall inquire of management
about: (Ref: Para. A24-A25)
(a) The nature of these transactions; and (Ref: Para. A26)
(b) Whether related parties could be involved. (Ref: Para. A27)
Sharing Related Party Information with the Engagement Team
17. The auditor shall share relevant information obtained about the entity’s related parties with the other members of the
engagement team. (Ref: Para. A28)
AUDITING
Identification and Assessment of the Risks of Material Misstatement Associated with Related Party Relationships and
Transactions
18. In meeting the SLAuS 315 requirement to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement,
9 the auditor shall
identify and assess the risks of material misstatement associated with related party relationships and transactions
and determine whether any of those risks are significant risks. In making this determination, the auditor shall treat
identified significant related party transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business as giving rise to
significant risks.
19. If the auditor identifies fraud risk factors (including circumstances relating to the existence of a related party with
dominant influence) when performing the risk assessment procedures and related activities in connection with related
parties, the auditor shall consider such information when identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement
due to fraud in accordance with SLAuS 240. (Ref: Para. A6 and A29-A30)
Responses to the Risks of Material Misstatement Associated with Related Party Relationships and Transactions
20. As part of the SLAuS 330 requirement that the auditor respond to assessed risks,
10 the auditor designs and performs
further audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the assessed risks of material
misstatement associated with related party relationships and transactions. These audit procedures shall include
those required by paragraphs 21-24. (Ref: Para. A31-A34)
9 SLAuS 315, paragraph 25.
10 SLAuS 330, paragraphs 5-6.

<!-- page 342 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
342A
Identification of Previously Unidentified or Undisclosed Related Parties or
Significant Related Party Transactions
21. If the auditor identifies arrangements or information that suggests the existence of related party relationships or
transactions that management has not previously identified or disclosed to the auditor, the auditor shall determine
whether the underlying circumstances confirm the existence of those relationships or transactions.
22. If the auditor identifies related parties or significant related party transactions that management has not previously
identified or disclosed to the auditor, the auditor shall:
(a) Promptly communicate the relevant information to the other members of the engagement team; (Ref: Para. A35)
(b) Where the applicable financial reporting framework establishes related party requirements:
 (i) Request management to identify all transactions with the newly identified related parties for the auditor’s
further evaluation; and
(ii) Inquire as to why the entity’s controls over related party relationships and transactions failed to enable the
identification or disclosure of the related party relationships or transactions;
(c) Perform appropriate substantive audit procedures relating to such newly identified related parties or significant
related party transactions; (Ref: Para. A36)
(d) Reconsider the risk that other related parties or significant related party transactions may exist that management
has not previously identified or disclosed to the auditor, and perform additional audit procedures as necessary;
and
(e) If the non-disclosure by management appears intentional (and therefore indicative of a risk of material misstatement
due to fraud), evaluate the implications for the audit. (Ref: Para. A37)
Identified Significant Related Party Transactions outside the Entity’ s Normal Course of Business
23. For identified significant related party transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business, the auditor shall:
(a) Inspect the underlying contracts or agreements, if any, and evaluate whether:
(i) The business rationale (or lack thereof) of the transactions suggests that they may have been entered into to
engage in fraudulent financial reporting or to conceal misappropriation of assets;
11 (Ref: Para. A38-A39)
(ii) The terms of the transactions are consistent with management’s explanations; and
(iii) The transactions have been appropriately accounted for and disclosed in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting framework; and
(b) Obtain audit evidence that the transactions have been appropriately authorized and approved. (Ref: Para. A40-
A41)
Assertions That Related Party Transactions Were Conducted on Terms Equivalent to Those Prevailing in an Arm’ s Length
Transaction
24. If management has made an assertion in the financial statements to the effect that a related party transaction was
conducted on terms equivalent to those prevailing in an arm’s length transaction, the auditor shall obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence about the assertion. (Ref: Para. A42-A45)
11 SLAuS 240, paragraph 32(c)

<!-- page 343 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
343A
Evaluation of the Accounting for and Disclosure of Identified Related Party
Relationships and Transactions
25. In forming an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with SLAuS 700, 12 the auditor shall evaluate: (Ref:
Para. A46)
(a) Whether the identified related party relationships and transactions have been appropriately accounted for and
disclosed in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework; and (Ref: Para. A47)
(b) Whether the effects of the related party relationships and transactions:
(i) Prevent the financial statements from achieving fair presentation (for fair presentation frameworks); or
(ii) Cause the financial statements to be misleading (for compliance frameworks).
Written Representations
26. Where the applicable financial reporting framework establishes related party requirements, the auditor shall obtain
written representations from management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance that: (Ref: Para.
A48-A49)
(a) They have disclosed to the auditor the identity of the entity’s related parties and all the related party relationships
and transactions of which they are aware; and
(b) They have appropriately accounted for and disclosed such relationships and transactions in accordance with
the requirements of the framework.
Communication with Those Charged with Governance
27. Unless all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity,
13 the auditor shall communicate with
those charged with governance significant matters arising during the audit in connection with the entity’s related
parties. (Ref: Para. A50)
Documentation
28. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation the names of the identified related parties and the nature of the
related party relationships.
14
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Responsibilities of the Auditor
Financial Reporting Frameworks That Establish Minimal Related Party Requirements (Ref: Para. 4)
A1. An applicable financial reporting framework that establishes minimal related party requirements is one that defines
the meaning of a related party but that definition has a substantially narrower scope than the definition set out in
paragraph 10(b)(ii) of this SLAuS, so that a requirement in the framework to disclose related party relationships and
transactions would apply to substantially fewer related party relationships and transactions.
12 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements,” paragraphs 10-15.
13 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 13.
14 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.

<!-- page 344 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
344A
Fair Presentation Frameworks (Ref: Para. 4(a))
A2. In the context of a fair presentation framework, 15 related party relationships and transactions may cause the financial
statements to fail to achieve fair presentation if, for example, the economic reality of such relationships and transactions
is not appropriately reflected in the financial statements. For instance, fair presentation may not be achieved if the
sale of a property by the entity to a controlling shareholder at a price above or below fair market value has been
accounted for as a transaction involving a profit or loss for the entity when it may constitute a contribution or return
of capital or the payment of a dividend.
Compliance Frameworks (Ref: Para. 4(b))
A3. In the context of a compliance framework, whether related party relationships and transactions cause the financial
statements to be misleading as discussed in SLAuS 700 depends upon the particular circumstances of the engagement.
For example, even if non-disclosure of related party transactions in the financial statements is in compliance with the
framework and applicable law or regulation, the financial statements could be misleading if the entity derives a very
substantial portion of its revenue from transactions with related parties, and that fact is not disclosed. However, it will
be extremely rare for the auditor to consider financial statements that are prepared and presented in accordance with
a compliance framework to be misleading if in accordance with SLAuS 210
16 the auditor determined that the framework
is acceptable.17
Definition of a Related Party (Ref: Para. 10(b))
A4. Many financial reporting frameworks discuss the concepts of control and significant influence. Although they may
discuss these concepts using different terms, they generally explain that:
(a) Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its
activities; and
(b) Significant influence (which may be gained by share ownership, statute or agreement) is the power to participate
in the financial and operating policy decisions of an entity, but is not control over those policies.
A5. The existence of the following relationships may indicate the presence of control or significant influence:
(a) Direct or indirect equity holdings or other financial interests in the entity.
(b) The entity’s holdings of direct or indirect equity or other financial interests in other entities.
(c) Being part of those charged with governance or key management (that is, those members of management who
have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity).
(d) Being a close family member of any person referred to in subparagraph (c).
(e) Having a significant business relationship with any person referred to in subparagraph (c).
Related Parties with Dominant Influence
A6. Related parties, by virtue of their ability to exert control or significant influence, may be in a position to exert dominant
influence over the entity or its management. Consideration of such behavior is relevant when identifying and assessing
the risks of material misstatement due to fraud, as further explained in paragraphs A29-A30.
15 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(a), defines the meaning of fair presentation and compliance frameworks.
16 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements,” paragraph 6(a).
17 SLAuS 700, paragraph A12.

<!-- page 345 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
345A
Special-Purpose Entities as Related Parties
A7. In some circumstances, a special-purpose entity 18 may be a related party of the entity because the entity may in
substance control it, even if the entity owns little or none of the special-purpose entity’s equity.
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities
Risks of Material Misstatement Associated with Related Party Relationships and
Transactions (Ref: Para. 11)
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A8. The public sector auditor’s responsibilities regarding related party relationships and transactions may be affected by
the audit mandate, or by obligations on public sector entities arising from law, regulation or other authority.
Consequently, the public sector auditor’s responsibilities may not be limited to addressing the risks of material
misstatement associated with related party relationships and transactions, but may also include a broader responsibility
to address the risks of non-compliance with law, regulation and other authority governing public sector bodies that
lay down specific requirements in the conduct of business with related parties. Further, the public sector auditor may
need to have regard to public sector financial reporting requirements for related party relationships and transactions
that may differ from those in the private sector.
Understanding the Entity’ s Related Party Relationships and Transactions
Discussion among the Engagement Team (Ref: Para. 12)
A9. Matters that may be addressed in the discussion among the engagement team include:
* The nature and extent of the entity’s relationships and transactions with related parties (using, for example, the
auditor’s record of identified related parties updated after each audit).
* An emphasis on the importance of maintaining professional skepticism throughout the audit regarding the
potential for material misstatement associated with related party relationships and transactions.
* The circumstances or conditions of the entity that may indicate the existence of related party relationships or
transactions that management has not identified or disclosed to the auditor (for example, a complex organizational
structure, use of special-purpose entities for off-balance sheet transactions, or an inadequate information system).
* The records or documents that may indicate the existence of related party relationships or transactions.
* The importance that management and those charged with governance attach to the identification, appropriate
accounting for, and disclosure of related party relationships and transactions (if the applicable financial reporting
framework establishes related party requirements), and the related risk of management override of relevant
controls.
A10. In addition, the discussion in the context of fraud may include specific consideration of how related parties may be
involved in fraud. For example:
* How special-purpose entities controlled by management might be used to facilitate earnings management.
* How transactions between the entity and a known business partner of a key member of management could be
arranged to facilitate misappropriation of the entity’s assets.
18 SLAuS 315, paragraphs A26-A27, provides guidance regarding the nature of a special-purpose entity.

<!-- page 346 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
346A
The Identity of the Entity’s Related Parties (Ref: Para. 13(a))
A11. Where the applicable financial reporting framework establishes related party requirements, information regarding the
identity of the entity’s related parties is likely to be readily available to management because the entity’s information
systems will need to record, process and summarize related party relationships and transactions to enable the entity
to meet the accounting and disclosure requirements of the framework. Management is therefore likely to have a
comprehensive list of related parties and changes from the prior period. For recurring engagements, making the
inquiries provides a basis for comparing the information supplied by management with the auditor’s record of related
parties noted in previous audits.
A12. However, where the framework does not establish related party requirements, the entity may not have such information
systems in place. Under such circumstances, it is possible that management may not be aware of the existence of all
related parties. Nevertheless, the requirement to make the inquiries specified by paragraph 13 still applies because
management may be aware of parties that meet the related party definition set out in this SLAuS. In such a case,
however, the auditor’s inquiries regarding the identity of the entity’s related parties are likely to form part of the
auditor’s risk assessment procedures and related activities performed in accordance with SLAuS 315 to obtain
information regarding:
* The entity’s ownership and governance structures;
* The types of investments that the entity is making and plans to make; and
* The way the entity is structured and how it is financed.
In the particular case of common control relationships, as management is more likely to be aware of such relationships
if they have economic significance to the entity, the auditor’s inquiries are likely to be more effective if they are
focused on whether parties with which the entity engages in significant transactions, or shares resources to a
significant degree, are related parties.
A13. In the context of a group audit, SLAuS 600 requires the group engagement team to provide each component auditor
with a list of related parties prepared by group management and any other related parties of which the group
engagement team is aware.
19 Where the entity is a component within a group, this information provides a useful basis
for the auditor’s inquiries of management regarding the identity of the entity’s related parties.
A14. The auditor may also obtain some information regarding the identity of the entity’s related parties through inquiries
of management during the engagement acceptance or continuance process.
The Entity’s Controls over Related Party Relationships and Transactions (Ref: Para. 14)
A15. Others within the entity are those considered likely to have knowledge of the entity’s related party relationships and
transactions, and the entity’s controls over such relationships and transactions. These may include, to the extent that
they do not form part of management:
* Those charged with governance;
* Personnel in a position to initiate, process, or record transactions that are both significant and outside the
entity’s normal course of business, and those who supervise or monitor such personnel;
* Internal auditors;
* In-house legal counsel; and
* The chief ethics officer or equivalent person.
19 SLAuS 600, “Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors),” paragraph
40(e).

<!-- page 347 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
347A
A16. The audit is conducted on the premise that management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance
have acknowledged and understand that they have responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements in
accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework, including where relevant their fair presentation, and for
such internal control as management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance determine is necessary
to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
20 Accordingly, where the framework establishes related party requirements, the preparation of the financial
statements requires management, with oversight from those charged with governance, to design, implement and
maintain adequate controls over related party relationships and transactions so that these are identified and
appropriately accounted for and disclosed in accordance with the framework. In their oversight role, those charged
with governance monitor how management is discharging its responsibility for such controls. Regardless of any
related party requirements the framework may establish, those charged with governance may, in their oversight role,
obtain information from management to enable them to understand the nature and business rationale of the entity’s
related party relationships and transactions.
A17. In meeting the SLAuS 315 requirement to obtain an understanding of the control environment,
21 the auditor may
consider features of the control environment relevant to mitigating the risks of material misstatement associated with
related party relationships and transactions, such as:
* Internal ethical codes, appropriately communicated to the entity’s personnel and enforced, governing the
circumstances in which the entity may enter into specific types of related party transactions.
* Policies and procedures for open and timely disclosure of the interests that management and those charged with
governance have in related party transactions.
* The assignment of responsibilities within the entity for identifying, recording, summarizing, and disclosing
related party transactions.
* Timely disclosure and discussion between management and those charged with governance of significant
related party transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business, including whether those charged with
governance have appropriately challenged the business rationale of such transactions (for example, by seeking
advice from external professional advisors).
* Clear guidelines for the approval of related party transactions involving actual or perceived conflicts of interest,
such as approval by a subcommittee of those charged with governance comprising individuals independent of
management.
* Periodic reviews by internal auditors, where applicable.
* Proactive action taken by management to resolve related party disclosure issues, such as by seeking advice from
the auditor or external legal counsel.
* The existence of whistle-blowing policies and procedures, where applicable.
A18. Controls over related party relationships and transactions within some entities may be deficient or non-existent for a
number of reasons, such as:
* The low importance attached by management to identifying and disclosing related party relationships and
transactions.
* The lack of appropriate oversight by those charged with governance.
* An intentional disregard for such controls because related party disclosures may reveal information that
management considers sensitive, for example, the existence of transactions involving family members of
management.
20 SLAuS 200, paragraph A2.
21 SLAuS 315, paragraph 14.
22 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”

<!-- page 348 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
348A
* An insufficient understanding by management of the related party requirements of the applicable financial
reporting framework.
* The absence of disclosure requirements under the applicable financial reporting framework.
Where such controls are ineffective or non-existent, the auditor may be unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence about related party relationships and transactions. If this were the case, the auditor would, in accordance
with SLAuS 705,
22 consider the implications for the audit, including the opinion in the auditor’s report.
A19. Fraudulent financial reporting often involves management override of controls that otherwise may appear to be
operating effectively.23 The risk of management override of controls is higher if management has relationships that
involve control or significant influence with parties with which the entity does business because these relationships
may present management with greater incentives and opportunities to perpetrate fraud. For example, management’s
financial interests in certain related parties may provide incentives for management to override controls by (a)
directing the entity, against its interests, to conclude transactions for the benefit of these parties, or (b) colluding with
such parties or controlling their actions. Examples of possible fraud include:
* Creating fictitious terms of transactions with related parties designed to misrepresent the business rationale of
these transactions.
* Fraudulently organizing the transfer of assets from or to management or others at amounts significantly above or
below market value.
* Engaging in complex transactions with related parties, such as special-purpose entities, that are structured to
misrepresent the financial position or financial performance of the entity.
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A20. Control activities in smaller entities are likely to be less formal and smaller entities may have no documented processes
for dealing with related party relationships and transactions. An owner-manager may mitigate some of the risks
arising from related party transactions, or potentially increase those risks, through active involvement in all the main
aspects of the transactions. For such entities, the auditor may obtain an understanding of the related party relationships
and transactions, and any controls that may exist over these, through inquiry of management combined with other
procedures, such as observation of management’s oversight and review activities, and inspection of available relevant
documentation.
Authorization and approval of significant transactions and arrangements (Ref: Para. 14(b))
A21. Authorization involves the granting of permission by a party or parties with the appropriate authority (whether
management, those charged with governance or the entity’s shareholders) for the entity to enter into specific
transactions in accordance with pre-determined criteria, whether judgmental or not. Approval involves those parties’
acceptance of the transactions the entity has entered into as having satisfied the criteria on which authorization was
granted. Examples of controls the entity may have established to authorize and approve significant transactions and
arrangements with related parties or significant transactions and arrangements outside the normal course of business
include:
* Monitoring controls to identify such transactions and arrangements for authorization and approval.
* Approval of the terms and conditions of the transactions and arrangements by management, those charged with
governance or, where applicable, shareholders.
23 SLAuS 240, paragraphs 31 and A4.

<!-- page 349 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
349A
Maintaining Alertness for Related Party Information When Reviewing Records or Documents
Records or Documents That the Auditor May Inspect (Ref: Para. 15)
A22. During the audit, the auditor may inspect records or documents that may provide information about related party
relationships and transactions, for example:
* Third-party confirmations obtained by the auditor (in addition to bank and legal confirmations).
* Entity income tax returns.
* Information supplied by the entity to regulatory authorities.
* Shareholder registers to identify the entity’s principal shareholders.
* Statements of conflicts of interest from management and those charged with governance.
* Records of the entity’s investments and those of its pension plans.
* Contracts and agreements with key management or those charged with governance.
* Significant contracts and agreements not in the entity’s ordinary course of business.
* Specific invoices and correspondence from the entity’s professional advisors.
* Life insurance policies acquired by the entity.
* Significant contracts re-negotiated by the entity during the period.
* Internal auditors’ reports.
* Documents associated with the entity’s filings with a securities regulator (for example, prospectuses).
Arrangements that may indicate the existence of previously unidentified or undisclosed related party relationships or
transactions.
A23. An arrangement involves a formal or informal agreement between the entity and one or more other parties for such
purposes as:
* The establishment of a business relationship through appropriate vehicles or structures.
* The conduct of certain types of transactions under specific terms and conditions.
* The provision of designated services or financial support.
Examples of arrangements that may indicate the existence of related party relationships or transactions that management has
not previously identified or disclosed to the auditor include:
* Participation in unincorporated partnerships with other parties.
* Agreements for the provision of services to certain parties under terms and conditions that are outside the
entity’s normal course of business.
* Guarantees and guarantor relationships.
AUDITING
Identification of Significant Transactions outside the Normal Course of Business (Ref: Para. 16)
A24. Obtaining further information on significant transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business enables the
auditor to evaluate whether fraud risk factors, if any, are present and, where the applicable financial reporting
framework establishes related party requirements, to identify the risks of material misstatement.

<!-- page 350 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
350A
A25. Examples of transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business may include:
* Complex equity transactions, such as corporate restructurings or acquisitions.
* Transactions with offshore entities in jurisdictions with weak corporate laws.
* The leasing of premises or the rendering of management services by the entity to another party if no consideration
is exchanged.
* Sales transactions with unusually large discounts or returns.
* Transactions with circular arrangements, for example, sales with a commitment to repurchase.
* Transactions under contracts whose terms are changed before expiry.
Understanding the nature of significant transactions outside the normal course of business (Ref: Para. 16(a))
A26. Inquiring into the nature of the significant transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business involves
obtaining an understanding of the business rationale of the transactions, and the terms and conditions under which
these have been entered into.
Inquiring into whether related parties could be involved (Ref: Para. 16(b))
A27. A related party could be involved in a significant transaction outside the entity’s normal course of business not only
by directly influencing the transaction through being a party to the transaction, but also by indirectly influencing it
through an intermediary. Such influence may indicate the presence of a fraud risk factor.
Sharing Related Party Information with the Engagement Team (Ref: Para. 17)
A28. Relevant related party information that may be shared among the engagement team members includes, for example:
* The identity of the entity’s related parties.
* The nature of the related party relationships and transactions.
* Significant or complex related party relationships or transactions that may require special audit consideration, in
particular transactions in which management or those charged with governance are financially involved.
Identification and Assessment of the Risks of Material Misstatement Associated with Related Party Relationships and
Transactions
Fraud Risk Factors Associated with a Related Party with Dominant Influence (Ref: Para. 19)
A29. Domination of management by a single person or small group of persons without compensating controls is a fraud
risk factor.
24 Indicators of dominant influence exerted by a related party include:
* The related party has vetoed significant business decisions taken by management or those charged with
governance.
* Significant transactions are referred to the related party for final approval.
* There is little or no debate among management and those charged with governance regarding business proposals
initiated by the related party.
* Transactions involving the related party (or a close family member of the related party) are rarely independently
reviewed and approved.
24 SLAuS 240, Appendix 1.

<!-- page 351 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
351A
Dominant influence may also exist in some cases if the related party has played a leading role in founding the entity and
continues to play a leading role in managing the entity.
A30. In the presence of other risk factors, the existence of a related party with dominant influence may indicate significant
risks of material misstatement due to fraud. For example:
* An unusually high turnover of senior management or professional advisors may suggest unethical or fraudulent
business practices that serve the related party’s purposes.
* The use of business intermediaries for significant transactions for which there appears to be no clear business
justification may suggest that the related party could have an interest in such transactions through control of
such intermediaries for fraudulent purposes.
* Evidence of the related party’s excessive participation in or preoccupation with the selection of accounting
policies or the determination of significant estimates may suggest the possibility of fraudulent financial reporting.
UDITING
Responses to the Risks of Material Misstatement Associated with Related Party Relationships and Transactions (Ref: Para.
20)
A31. The nature, timing and extent of the further audit procedures that the auditor may select to respond to the assessed
risks of material misstatement associated with related party relationships and transactions depend upon the nature of
those risks and the circumstances of the entity.
25
A32. Examples of subst antive audit procedures that the auditor may perform when the auditor has assessed a significant
risk that management has not appropriately accounted for or disclosed specific related party transactions in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework (whether due to fraud or error) include:
* Confirming or discussing specific aspects of the transactions with intermediaries such as banks, law firms,
guarantors, or agents, where practicable and not prohibited by law, regulation or ethical rules.
* Confirming the purposes, specific terms or amounts of the transactions with the related parties (this audit
procedure may be less effective where the auditor judges that the entity is likely to influence the related parties
in their responses to the auditor).
* Where applicable, reading the financial statements or other relevant financial information, if available, of the
related parties for evidence of the accounting of the transactions in the related parties’ accounting records.
A33. If the auditor has assessed a significant risk of material misstatement due to fraud as a result of the presence of a
related party with dominant influence, the auditor may, in addition to the general requirements of SLAuS 240, perform
audit procedures such as the following to obtain an understanding of the business relationships that such a related
party may have established directly or indirectly with the entity and to determine the need for further appropriate
substantive audit procedures:
* Inquiries of, and discussion with, management and those charged with governance.
* Inquiries of the related party.
* Inspection of significant contracts with the related party.
* Appropriate background research, such as through the Internet or specific external business information databases.
* Review of employee whistle-blowing reports where these are retained.
25 SLAuS 330 provides further guidance on considering the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures. SLAuS 240 establi shes
requirements and provides guidance on appropriate responses to assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud.

<!-- page 352 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
352A
A34. Depending upon the results of the auditor’s risk assessment procedures, the auditor may consider it appropriate to
obtain audit evidence without testing the entity’s controls over related party relationships and transactions. In some
circumstances, however, it may not be possible to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence from substantive audit
procedures alone in relation to the risks of material misstatement associated with related party relationships and
transactions. For example, where intra-group transactions between the entity and its components are numerous and
a significant amount of information regarding these transactions is initiated, recorded, processed or reported
electronically in an integrated system, the auditor may determine that it is not possible to design effective substantive
audit procedures that by themselves would reduce the risks of material misstatement associated with these transactions
to an acceptably low level. In such a case, in meeting the SLAuS 330 requirement to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence as to the operating effectiveness of relevant controls,
26 the auditor is required to test the entity’s controls
over the completeness and accuracy of the recording of the related party relationships and transactions.
Identification of Previously Unidentified or Undisclosed Related Parties or
Significant Related Party Transactions
Communicating Newly Identified Related Party Information to the Engagement Team (Ref: Para. 22(a))
A35. Communicating promptly any newly identified related parties to the other members of the engagement team assists
them in determining whether this information affects the results of, and conclusions drawn from, risk assessment
procedures already performed, including whether the risks of material misstatement need to be reassessed.
Substantive Procedures Relating to Newly Identified Related Parties or Significant Related Party Transactions (Ref:
Para. 22(c))
A36. Examples of substantive audit procedures that the auditor may perform relating to newly identified related parties or
significant related party transactions include:
* Making inquiries regarding the nature of the entity’s relationships with the newly identified related parties,
including (where appropriate and not prohibited by law, regulation or ethical rules) inquiring of parties outside
the entity who are presumed to have significant knowledge of the entity and its business, such as legal counsel,
principal agents, major representatives, consultants, guarantors, or other close business partners.
· ITING
* Conducting an analysis of accounting records for transactions with the newly identified related parties. Such an
analysis may be facilitated using computer-assisted audit techniques.
* Verifying the terms and conditions of the newly identified related party transactions, and evaluating whether the
transactions have been appropriately accounted for and disclosed in accordance with the applicable financial
reporting framework.
Intentional Non-Disclosure by Management (Ref: Para. 22(e))
A37. The requirements and guidance in SLAuS 240 regarding the auditor’s responsibilities relating to fraud in an audit of
financial statements are relevant where management appears to have intentionally failed to disclose related parties or
significant related party transactions to the auditor. The auditor may also consider whether it is necessary to re-
evaluate the reliability of management’s responses to the auditor’s inquiries and management’s representations to
the auditor.
Identified Significant Related Party Transactions outside the Entity’ s Normal Course of Business
26 SLAuS 330, paragraph 8(b).

<!-- page 353 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
353A
Evaluating the Business Rationale of Significant Related Party Transactions (Ref: Para. 23)
A38. In evaluating the business rationale of a significant related party transaction outside the entity’s normal course of
business, the auditor may consider the following:
* Whether the transaction:
o Is overly complex (for example, it may involve multiple related parties within a consolidated group).
o Has unusual terms of trade, such as unusual prices, interest rates, guarantees and repayment terms.
o Lacks an apparent logical business reason for its occurrence.
o Involves previously unidentified related parties.
o Is processed in an unusual manner.
* Whether management has discussed the nature of, and accounting for, such a transaction with those charged
with governance.
* Whether management is placing more emphasis on a particular accounting treatment rather than giving due
regard to the underlying economics of the transaction.
If management’s explanations are materially inconsistent with the terms of the related party transaction, the auditor is
required, in accordance with SLAuS 500,
27 to consider the reliability of management’s explanations and representations
on other significant matters.
A39. The auditor may also seek to understand the business rationale of such a transaction from the related party’s
perspective, as this may help the auditor to better understand the economic reality of the transaction and why it was
carried out. A business rationale from the related party’s perspective that appears inconsistent with the nature of its
business may represent a fraud risk factor.
Authorization and Approval of Significant Related Party Transactions (Ref: Para. 23(b))
A40. Authorization and approval by management, those charged with governance, or, where applicable, the shareholders
of significant related party transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business may provide audit evidence
that these have been duly considered at the appropriate levels within the entity and that their terms and conditions
have been appropriately reflected in the financial statements. The existence of transactions of this nature that were
not subject to such authorization and approval, in the absence of rational explanations based on discussion with
management or those charged with governance, may indicate risks of material misstatement due to error or fraud. In
these circumstances, the auditor may need to be alert for other transactions of a similar nature. Authorization and
approval alone, however, may not be sufficient in concluding whether risks of material misstatement due to fraud are
absent because authorization and approval may be ineffective if there has been collusion between the related parties
or if the entity is subject to the dominant influence of a related party.
Considerations specific to smaller entities
A41. A smaller entity may not have the same controls provided by different levels of authority and approval that may exist
in a larger entity. Accordingly, when auditing a smaller entity, the auditor may rely to a lesser degree on authorization
and approval for audit evidence regarding the validity of significant related party transactions outside the entity’s
normal course of business. Instead, the auditor may consider performing other audit procedures such as inspecting
relevant documents, confirming specific aspects of the transactions with relevant parties, or observing the owner-
manager’s involvement with the transactions.
27 SLAuS 500, “Audit Evidence,” paragraph 11.

<!-- page 354 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
354A
ING
Assertions That Related Party Transactions Were Conducted on Terms Equivalent to Those Prevailing in an Arm’ s Length
Transaction (Ref: Para. 24)
A42. Although audit evidence may be readily available regarding how the price of a related party transaction compares to
that of a similar arm’s length transaction, there are ordinarily practical difficulties that limit the auditor’s ability to
obtain audit evidence that all other aspects of the transaction are equivalent to those of the arm’s length transaction.
For example, although the auditor may be able to confirm that a related party transaction has been conducted at a
market price, it may be impracticable to confirm whether other terms and conditions of the transaction (such as credit
terms, contingencies and specific charges) are equivalent to those that would ordinarily be agreed between independent
parties. Accordingly, there may be a risk that management’s assertion that a related party transaction was conducted
on terms equivalent to those prevailing in an arm’s length transaction may be materially misstated.
A43. The p reparation of the financial statements requires management to substantiate an assertion that a related party
transaction was conducted on terms equivalent to those prevailing in an arm’s length transaction. Management’s
support for the assertion may include:
* Comparing the terms of the related party transaction to those of an identical or similar transaction with one or
more unrelated parties.
* Engaging an external expert to determine a market value and to confirm market terms and conditions for the
transaction.
* Comparing the terms of the transaction to known market terms for broadly similar transactions on an open market.
A44. Evaluating management’s support for this assertion may involve one or more of the following:
* Considering the appropriateness of management’s process for supporting the assertion.
* Verifying the source of the internal or external data supporting the assertion, and testing the data to determine
their accuracy, completeness and relevance.
* Evaluating the reasonableness of any significant assumptions on which the assertion is based.
A45. Some financial reporting frameworks require the disclosure of related party transactions not conducted on terms
equivalent to those prevailing in arm’s length transactions. In these circumstances, if management has not disclosed
a related party transaction in the financial statements, there may be an implicit assertion that the transaction was
conducted on terms equivalent to those prevailing in an arm’s length transaction.
Evaluation of the Accounting for and Disclosure of Identified Related Party
Relationships and Transactions
Materiality Considerations in Evaluating Misstatements (Ref: Para. 25)
A46. SLAuS 450 requires the auditor to consider both the size and the nature of a misstatement, and the particular
circumstances of its occurrence, when evaluating whether the misstatement is material.
28 The significance of the
transaction to the financial statement users may not depend solely on the recorded amount of the transaction but also
on other specific relevant factors, such as the nature of the related party relationship.
28 SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit,” paragraph 11(a). Paragraph A16 of SLAuS 450 provides
guidance on the circumstances that may affect the evaluation of a misstatement.

<!-- page 355 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
355A
Evaluation of Related Party Disclosures (Ref: Para. 25(a))
A47. Evaluating the related party disclosures in the context of the disclosure requirements of the applicable financial
reporting framework means considering whether the facts and circumstances of the entity’s related party relationships
and transactions have been appropriately summarized and presented so that the disclosures are understandable.
Disclosures of related party transactions may not be understandable if:
(a) The business rationale and the effects of the transactions on the financial statements are unclear or misstated;
or
(b) Key terms, conditions, or other important elements of the transactions necessary for understanding them are
not appropriately disclosed.
Written Representations (Ref: Para. 26)
A48. Circumstances in which it may be appropriate to obtain written representations from those charged with governance
include:
* When they have approved specific related party transactions that (a) materially affect the financial statements,
or (b) involve management.
* When they have made specific oral representations to the auditor on details of certain related party transactions.
* When they have financial or other interests in the related parties or the related party transactions.
A49. The auditor may also decide to obtain written representations regarding specific assertions that management may
have made, such as a representation that specific related party transactions do not involve undisclosed side
agreements.
AUDITING
Communication with Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 27)
A50. Communicating significant matters arising during the audit
29 in connection with the entity’s related parties helps the
auditor to establish a common understanding with those charged with governance of the nature and resolution of
these matters. Examples of significant related party matters include:
* Non-disclosure (whether intentional or not) by management to the auditor of related parties or significant
related party transactions, which may alert those charged with governance to significant related party
relationships and transactions of which they may not have been previously aware.
* The identification of significant related party transactions that have not been appropriately authorized and
approved, which may give rise to suspected fraud.
* Disagreement with management regarding the accounting for and disclosure of significant related party
transactions in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
* Non-compliance with applicable law or regulations prohibiting or restricting specific types of related party
transactions.
* Difficulties in identifying the party that ultimately controls the entity.
29 SLAuS 230, paragraph A8, provides further guidance on the nature of significant matters arising during the audit.

<!-- page 356 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
356A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  560
SUBSEQUENT  EVENTS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS  ........................................................................... 1
Subsequent Events  ............................................................................... 2
Effective Date  ...................................................................................... 3
Objectives  ........................................................................................... 4
Definitions  ........................................................................................... 5
Requirements
Events Occurring between the Date of the Financial Statements and
the Date of the Auditor’s Report .... ........................................... 6-9
Facts Which Become Known to the Auditor after the Date of the
Auditor’s Report but before the Date the Financial Statements
are Issued ................................................................................... 10-13
Facts Which Become Known to the Auditor after the Financial
Statements Have Been Issued .................................................... 14-17
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Scope of this SLAuS  ............................................................................ A1
Definitions  ............................................................................................ A2-A5
Events Occurring between the Date of the Financial Statements and
the Date of the Auditor’s Report  ............................................... A6-A10
Facts Which Become Known to the Auditor after the Date of the
Auditor’s Report but before the Date the Financial Statements
are Issued ..................................................................................A11-A16
Facts Which Become Known to the Auditor after the Financial
Statements Have Been Issued .................................................... A17-A18
AUDITING
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 560, “Subsequent Events” should be read in conjunction
with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit
in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”

<!-- page 357 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
357A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to subsequent events in
an audit of financial statements. (Ref: Para. A1)
Subsequent Events
2. Financial statements may be affected by certain events that occur after the date of the financial statements. Many
financial reporting frameworks specifically refer to such events. 1 Such financial reporting frameworks ordinarily
identify two types of events:
(a) Those that provide evidence of conditions that existed at the date of the financial statements; and
(b) Those that provide evidence of conditions that arose after the date of the financial statements.
SLAuS 700 explains that the date of the auditor’s report informs the reader that the auditor has considered the effect
of events and transactions of which the auditor becomes aware and that occurred up to that date. 2
Effective Date
3. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
4. The objectives of the auditor are:
(a) To obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about whether events occurring between the date of the
financial statements and the date of the auditor’s report that require adjustment of, or disclosure in, the financial
statements are appropriately reflected in those financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial
reporting framework; and
(b) To respond appropriately to facts that become known to the auditor after the date of the auditor’s report, that,
had they been known to the auditor at that date, may have caused the auditor to amend the auditor’s report.
UDITING
Definitions
5. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Date of the financial statements – The date of the end of the latest period covered by the financial statements.
(b) Date of approval of the financial statements – The date on which all the statements that comprise the financial
statements, including the related notes, have been prepared and those with the recognized authority have
asserted that they have taken responsibility for those financial statements. (Ref: Para. A2)
(c) Date of the auditor’s report – The date the auditor dates the report on the financial statements in accordance
with SLAuS 700. (Ref: Para. A3)
1 For example, Sri Lanka Accounting Standard (LKAS) 10, “Events After the Reporting Period” deals with the treatment in financial
statements of events, both favorable and unfavorable, that occur between the date of the financial statements (referred to as t he “end
of the reporting period“ in the LKAS) and the date when the financial statements are authorized for issue.
2 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements,” paragraph A38.

<!-- page 358 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
358A
(d) Date the financial statements are issued – The date that the auditor’s report and audited financial statements are
made available to third parties. (Ref: Para. A4-A5)
(e) Subsequent events – Events occurring between the date of the financial statements and the date of the
auditor’s report, and facts that become known to the auditor after the date of the auditor’s report.
Requirements
Events Occurring between the Date of the Financial Statements and the Date of the Auditor’s Report
6. The auditor shall perform audit procedures designed to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence that all events
occurring between the date of the financial statements and the date of the auditor’s report that require adjustment of,
or disclosure in, the financial statements have been identified. The auditor is not, however, expected to perform
additional audit procedures on matters to which previously applied audit procedures have provided satisfactory
conclusions. (Ref: Para. A6)
7. The auditor shall perform the procedures required by paragraph 6 so that they cover the period from the date of the
financial statements to the date of the auditor’s report, or as near as practicable thereto. The auditor shall take into
account the auditor’s risk assessment in determining the nature and extent of such audit procedures, which shall
include the following: (Ref: Para. A7-A8)
(a) Obtaining an understanding of any procedures management has established to ensure that subsequent events
are identified.
(b) Inquiring of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance as to whether any subsequent
events have occurred which might affect the financial statements. (Ref: Para. A9)
(c) Reading minutes, if any, of the meetings, of the entity’s owners, management and those charged with governance,
that have been held after the date of the financial statements and inquiring about matters discussed at any such
meetings for which minutes are not yet available. (Ref: Para. A10)
(d) Reading the entity’s latest subsequent interim financial statements, if any.
8. If, as a result of the procedures performed as required by paragraphs 6 and 7, the auditor identifies events that require
adjustment of, or disclosure in, the financial statements, the auditor shall determine whether each such event is
appropriately reflected in those financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
Written Representations
9. The auditor shall request management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance, to provide a written
representation in accordance with SLAuS 580
3 that all events occurring subsequent to the date of the financial
statements and for which the applicable financial reporting framework requires adjustment or disclosure have been
adjusted or disclosed.
Facts Which Become Known to the Auditor after the Date of the Auditor’s Report but before the Date the Financial
Statements Are Issued
10. The auditor has no obligation to perform any audit procedures regarding the financial statements after the date of the
auditor’s report. However, if, after the date of the auditor’s report but before the date the financial statements are
issued, a fact becomes known to the auditor that, had it been known to the auditor at the date of the auditor’s report,
may have caused the auditor to amend the auditor’s report, the auditor shall: (Ref: Para. A11)
3 SLAuS 580, “Written Representations.”

<!-- page 359 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
359A
(a) Discuss the matter with management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance.
(b) Determine whether the financial statements need amendment and, if so,
(c) Inquire how management intends to address the matter in the financial statements.
11. If management amends the financial statements, the auditor shall:
AUDITING
(a) Carry out the audit procedures necessary in the circumstances on the amendment.
(b) Unless the circumstances in paragraph 12 apply:
(i) Extend the audit procedures referred to in paragraphs 6 and 7 to the date of the new auditor’s report; and
(ii) Provide a new auditor’s report on the amended financial statements. The new auditor’s report shall not be
dated earlier than the date of approval of the amended financial statements.
12. Where law, regulation or the financial reporting framework does not prohibit management from restricting the amendment
of the financial statements to the effects of the subsequent event or events causing that amendment and those
responsible for approving the financial statements are not prohibited from restricting their approval to that amendment,
the auditor is permitted to restrict the audit procedures on subsequent events required in paragraph 11(b)(i) to that
amendment. In such cases, the auditor shall either:
(a) Amend the auditor’s report to include an additional date restricted to that amendment that thereby indicates
that the auditor’s procedures on subsequent events are restricted solely to the amendment of the financial
statements described in the relevant note to the financial statements; or (Ref: Para. A12)
(b) Provide a new or amended auditor’s report that includes a statement in an Emphasis of Matter paragraph
4 or
Other Matter paragraph that conveys that the auditor’s procedures on subsequent events are restricted solely
to the amendment of the financial statements as described in the relevant note to the financial statements.
13. In some jurisdictions, management may not be required by law, regulation or the financial reporting framework to
issue amended financial statements and, accordingly, the auditor need not provide an amended or new auditor’s
report. However, if management does not amend the financial statements in circumstances where the auditor believes
they need to be amended, then: (Ref: Para. A13-A14)
(a) If the auditor’s report has not yet been provided to the entity, the auditor shall modify the opinion as required
by SLAuS 705
5 and then provide the auditor’s report; or
(b) If the auditor’s report has already been provided to the entity, the auditor shall notify management and, unless
all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity, those charged with governance, not
to issue the financial statements to third parties before the necessary amendments have been made. If the
financial statements are nevertheless subsequently issued without the necessary amendments, the auditor
shall take appropriate action, to seek to prevent reliance on the auditor’s report. (Ref. Para: A15-A16)
Facts Which Become Known to the Auditor after the Financial Statements Have Been Issued
14. After the financial statements have been issued, the auditor has no obligation to perform any audit procedures
regarding such financial statements. However, if, after the financial statements have been issued, a fact becomes
known to the auditor that, had it been known to the auditor at the date of the auditor’s report, may have caused the
auditor to amend the auditor’s report, the auditor shall :
4 See SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’sReport.”
5 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”

<!-- page 360 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
360A
(a) Discuss the matter with management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance;
(b) Determine whether the financial statements need amendment; and, if so,
(c) Inquire how management intends to address the matter in the financial statements.
15. If management amends the financial statements, the auditor shall: (Ref: Para. A17)
(a) Carry out the audit procedures necessary in the circumstances on the amendment.
(b) Review the steps taken by management to ensure that anyone in receipt of the previously issued financial
statements together with the auditor’s report thereon is informed of the situation.
(c) Unless the circumstances in paragraph 12 apply:
(i) Extend the audit procedures referred to in paragraphs 6 and 7 to the date of the new auditor’s report, and
date the new auditor’s report no earlier than the date of approval of the amended financial statements; and
(ii) Provide a new auditor’s report on the amended financial statements.
(d) When the circumstances in paragraph 12 apply, amend the auditor’s report, or provide a new auditor’s report as
required by paragraph 12.
16. The auditor shall include in the new or amended auditor’s report an Emphasis of Matter paragraph or Other Matter(s)
paragraph referring to a note to the financial statements that more extensively discusses the reason for the amendment
of the previously issued financial statements and to the earlier report provided by the auditor.
17. If management does not take the necessary steps to ensure that anyone in receipt of the previously issued financial
statements is informed of the situation and does not amend the financial statements in circumstances where the
auditor believes they need to be amended, the auditor shall notify management and, unless all of those charged with
governance are involved in managing the entity,
6 those charged with governance, that the auditor will seek to prevent
future reliance on the auditor’s report. If, despite such notification, management or those charged with governance
do not take these necessary steps, the auditor shall take appropriate action to seek to prevent reliance on the
auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A18)
* * *
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Scope of this SLAuS (Ref: Para. 1)
A1. When the audited financial statements are included in other documents subsequent to the issuance of the financial
statements, the auditor may have additional responsibilities relating to subsequent events that the auditor may need
to consider, such as legal or regulatory requirements involving the offering of securities to the public in jurisdictions
in which the securities are being offered. For example, the auditor may be required to perform additional audit
procedures to the date of the final offering document. These procedures may include those referred to in paragraphs
6 and 7 performed up to a date at or near the effective date of the final offering document, and reading the offering
document to assess whether the other information in the offering document is consistent with the financial information
with which the auditor is associated.
7
6 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 13.
7 See SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph 2.

<!-- page 361 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
361A
Definitions
Date of Approval of the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 5(b))
A2. In some jurisdictions, law or regulation identifies the individuals or bodies (for example, management or those
charged with governance) that are responsible for concluding that all the statements that comprise the financial
statements, including the related notes, have been prepared, and specifies the necessary approval process. In other
jurisdictions, the approval process is not prescribed in law or regulation and the entity follows its own procedures in
preparing and finalizing its financial statements in view of its management and governance structures. In some
jurisdictions, final approval of the financial statements by shareholders is required. In these jurisdictions, final
approval by shareholders is not necessary for the auditor to conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence on
which to base the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements has been obtained. The date of approval of the
financial statements for purposes of the SLAuSs is the earlier date on which those with the recognized authority
determine that all the statements that comprise the financial statements, including the related notes, have been
prepared and that those with the recognized authority have asserted that they have taken responsibility for those
financial statements.
Date of the Auditor’ s Report (Ref: Para. 5(c))
A3. The auditor’s report cannot be dated earlier than the date on which the auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate
audit evidence on which to base the opinion on the financial statements including evidence that all the statements
that comprise the financial statements, including the related notes, have been prepared and that those with the
recognized authority have asserted that they have taken responsibility for those financial statements.
8 Consequently,
the date of the auditor’s report cannot be earlier than the date of approval of the financial statements as defined in
paragraph 5(b). A time period may elapse due to administrative issues between the date of the auditor’s report as
defined in paragraph 5(c) and the date the auditor’s report is provided to the entity.
Date the Financial Statements Are Issued (Ref: Para. 5(d))
A4. The date the financial statements are issued generally depends on the regulatory environment of the entity. In some
circumstances, the date the financial statements are issued may be the date that they are filed with a regulatory
authority. Since audited financial statements cannot be issued without an auditor’s report, the date that the audited
financial statements are issued must not only be at or later than the date of the auditor’s report, but must also be at or
later than the date the auditor’s report is provided to the entity.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A5. In the case of the public sector, the date the financial statements are issued may be the date the audited financial
statements and the auditor’s report thereon are presented to the legislature or otherwise made public.
AUDITING
Events Occurring between the Date of the Financial Statements and the Date of the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 6-9)
A6. Depending on the auditor’s risk assessment, the audit procedures required by paragraph 6 may include procedures,
necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, involving the review or testing of accounting records or
transactions occurring between the date of the financial statements and the date of the auditor’s report. The audit
procedures required by paragraphs 6 and 7 are in addition to procedures that the auditor may perform for other
purposes that, nevertheless, may provide evidence about subsequent events (for example, to obtain audit evidence
for account balances as at the date of the financial statements, such as cut-off procedures or procedures in relation
to subsequent receipts of accounts receivable).
8 SLAuS 700, paragraph 41. In some cases, law or regulation also identifies the point in the financial statement reporting proces s at which
the audit is expected to be complete.

<!-- page 362 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
362A
A7. Paragraph 7 stipulates certain audit procedures in this context that the auditor is required to perform pursuant to
paragraph 6. The subsequent events procedures that the auditor performs may, however, depend on the information
that is available and, in particular, the extent to which the accounting records have been prepared since the date of the
financial statements. Where the accounting records are not up-to-date, and accordingly no interim financial statements
(whether for internal or external purposes) have been prepared, or minutes of meetings of management or those
charged with governance have not been prepared, relevant audit procedures may take the form of inspection of
available books and records, including bank statements. Paragraph A8 gives examples of some of the additional
matters that the auditor may consider in the course of these inquiries.
A8. In addition to the audit procedures required by paragraph 7, the auditor may consider it necessary and appropriate to:
* Read the entity’s latest available budgets, cash flow forecasts and other related management reports for
periods after the date of the financial statements;
* Inquire, or extend previous oral or written inquiries, of the entity’s legal counsel concerning litigation and
claims; or
* Consider whether written representations covering particular subsequent events may be necessary to support
other audit evidence and thereby obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
Inquiry (Ref. Para. 7(b))
A9. In inquiring of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance, as to whether any subsequent
events have occurred that might affect the financial statements, the auditor may inquire as to the current status of
items that were accounted for on the basis of preliminary or inconclusive data and may make specific inquiries about
the following matters:
* Whether new commitments, borrowings or guarantees have been entered into.
* Whether sales or acquisitions of assets have occurred or are planned.
* Whether there have been increases in capital or issuance of debt instruments, such as the issue of new shares
or debentures, or an agreement to merge or liquidate has been made or is planned.
* Whether any assets have been appropriated by government or destroyed, for example, by fire or flood.
* Whether there have been any developments regarding contingencies.
* Whether any unusual accounting adjustments have been made or are contemplated.
* Whether any events have occurred or are likely to occur that will bring into question the appropriateness of
accounting policies used in the financial statements, as would be the case, for example, if such events call into
question the validity of the going concern assumption.
* Whether any events have occurred that are relevant to the measurement of estimates or provisions made in the
financial statements.
* Whether any events have occurred that are relevant to the recoverability of assets.
Reading Minutes (Ref. Para. 7(c))

<!-- page 363 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
363A
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A10. In the public sector, the auditor may read the official records of relevant proceedings of the legislature and inquire
about matters addressed in proceedings for which official records are not yet available.
Facts Which Become Known to the Auditor after the Date of the Auditor’s Report but before the Date the Financial
Statements Are Issued
Management Responsibility towards Auditor (Ref: Para. 10)
A11. As explained in SLAuS 210, the terms of the audit engagement include the agreement of management to inform the
auditor of facts that may affect the financial statements, of which management may become aware during the period
from the date of the auditor’s report to the date the financial statements are issued.
9
AUDITING
Dual Dating (Ref: Para. 12(a))
A12. When, in the circumstances described in paragraph 12(a), the auditor amends the auditor’s report to include an
additional date restricted to that amendment, the date of the auditor’s report on the financial statements prior to their
subsequent amendment by management remains unchanged because this date informs the reader as to when the
audit work on those financial statements was completed. However, an additional date is included in the auditor’s
report to inform users that the auditor’s procedures subsequent to that date were restricted to the subsequent
amendment of the financial statements. The following is an illustration of such an additional date:
(Date of auditor’s report), except as to Note Y , which is as of (date of completion of audit procedures
restricted to amendment described in Note Y).
No Amendment of Financial Statements by Management (Ref: Para. 13)
A13. In some jurisdictions, management may not be required by law, regulation or the financial reporting framework to
issue amended financial statements. This is often the case when issuance of the financial statements for the following
period is imminent, provided appropriate disclosures are made in such statements.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A14. In the public sector, the actions taken in accordance with paragraph 13 when management does not amend the
financial statements may also include reporting separately to the legislature, or other relevant body in the reporting
hierarchy, on the implications of the subsequent event for the financial statements and the auditor’s report.
Auditor Action to Seek to Prevent Reliance on Auditor’ s Report (Ref: Para. 13(b))
A15. The auditor may need to fulfill additional legal obligations even when the auditor has notified management not to
issue the financial statements and management has agreed to this request.
A16. Where management has issued the financial statements despite the auditor’s notification not to issue the financial
statements to third parties, the auditor’s course of action to prevent reliance on the auditor’s report on the financial
statements depends upon the auditor’s legal rights and obligations. Consequently, the auditor may consider it
appropriate to seek legal advice.
9 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements,” paragraph A23.

<!-- page 364 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
364A
Facts Which Become Known to the Auditor after the Financial Statements Have Been Issued
No Amendment of Financial Statements by Management (Ref: Para. 15)
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A17. In some jurisdictions, entities in the public sector may be prohibited from issuing amended financial statements by
law or regulation. In such circumstances, the appropriate course of action for the auditor may be to report to the
appropriate statutory body.
Auditor Action to Seek to Prevent Reliance on Auditor’ s Report (Ref: Para. 17)
A18. Where the auditor believes that management, or those charged with governance, have failed to take the necessary
steps to prevent reliance on the auditor’s report on financial statements previously issued by the entity despite the
auditor’s prior notification that the auditor will take action to seek to prevent such reliance, the auditor’s course of
action depends upon the auditor’s legal rights and obligations. Consequently, the auditor may consider it appropriate
to seek legal advice.

<!-- page 365 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
365A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  570
GOING  CONCERN
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS .................................. ............................................................................ 1
Going Concern Assumption ................................  ................................................................. 2
Responsibility for Assessment of the Entity’s Ability to Continue as a
Going Concern ............................................................................................ .................. 3-7
Effective Date.......................................................................................................................... 8
Objectives .................................... ........................................................................................... 9
Requirements
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities .............................. ........................... 10-11
Evaluating Management’s Assessment ...............................  ............................................... 12-14
Period beyond Management’s Assessment ............................... …………......................... 15
Additional Audit Procedures When Events or Conditions Are
Identified ....................................... ..................................................................................... 16
Audit Conclusions and Reporting ............................... ........................................................ 17
Use of Going Concern Assumption Appropriate but a Material Uncertainty Exists ...... . 18-20
Use of Going Concern Assumption Inappropriate ............................. ............................... 21
Management Unwilling to Make or Extend Its Assessment ............................. ……........ 22
Communication with Those Charged with Governance ..................................................... 23
Significant Delay in the Approval of Financial Statements ............................. ................. 24
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Going Concern Assumption .................................. ................................................................ A1
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ............................. ............................ A2-A6
Evaluating Management’s Assessment ..............................  ................................................ A7-A12
Period beyond Management’s Assessment .............................  .......................................... A13-A14
Additional Audit Procedures When Events or Conditions Are
Identified .....................................  .......................................................................................A15-A18
Audit Conclusions and Reporting ..............................  ........................................................ A19
Use of Going Concern Assumption Appropriate but a Material Uncertainty Exists
......................................................................................................................................... A20-A24
Use of Going Concern Assumption Inappropriate ............................. ............................... A25-A26
Management Unwilling to Make or Extend Its Assessment ............................  ................  A27
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 570, “Going Concern” should be read in conjunction
with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit
in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”

<!-- page 366 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
366A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities in the audit of financial statements
relating to management’s use of the going concern assumption in the preparation of the financial statements.
Going Concern Assumption
2. Under the going concern assumption, an entity is viewed as continuing in business for the foreseeable future.
General purpose financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, unless management either intends to
liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Special purpose financial
statements may or may not be prepared in accordance with a financial reporting framework for which the going
concern basis is relevant (for example, the going concern basis is not relevant for some financial statements prepared
on a tax basis in particular jurisdictions). When the use of the going concern assumption is appropriate, assets and
liabilities are recorded on the basis that the entity will be able to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the
normal course of business. (Ref: Para. A1)
Responsibility for Assessment of the Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern
3. Some financial reporting frameworks contain an explicit requirement for management to make a specific assessment of
the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, and standards regarding matters to be considered and disclosures
to be made in connection with going concern. For example, Sri Lanka Accounting Standard (LKAS) 1 requires
management to make an assessment of an entity’s ability to continue as a going concern.
1 The detailed requirements
regarding management’s responsibility to assess the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and related
financial statement disclosures may also be set out in law or regulation.
4. In other financial reporting frameworks, there may be no explicit requirement for management to make a specific
assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. Nevertheless, since the going concern assumption
is a fundamental principle in the preparation of financial statements as discussed in paragraph 2, the preparation of
the financial statements requires management to assess the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern even if the
financial reporting framework does not include an explicit requirement to do so.
5. Management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern involves making a judgment, at a
particular point in time, about inherently uncertain future outcomes of events or conditions. The following factors are
relevant to that judgment:
* The degree of uncertainty associated with the outcome of an event or condition increases significantly the
further into the future an event or condition or the outcome occurs. For that reason, most financial reporting
frameworks that require an explicit management assessment specify the period for which management is required
to take into account all available information.
* The size and complexity of the entity, the nature and condition of its business and the degree to which it is
affected by external factors affect the judgment regarding the outcome of events or conditions.
* Any judgment about the future is based on information available at the time at which the judgment is made.
Subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the
time they were made.
1 LKAS 1, “Presentation of Financial Statements” as at 1 January 2012, paragraphs 25-26.

<!-- page 367 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
367A
Responsibilities of the Auditor
6. The auditor’s responsibility is to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the appropriateness of
management’s use of the going concern assumption in the preparation and presentation of the financial statements
and to conclude whether there is a material uncertainty about the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. This
responsibility exists even if the financial reporting framework used in the preparation of the financial statements does
not include an explicit requirement for management to make a specific assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as
a going concern.
7. However, as described in SLAuS 200,
2 the potential effects of inherent limitations on the auditor’s ability to detect
material misstatements are greater for future events or conditions that may cause an entity to cease to continue as a
going concern. The auditor cannot predict such future events or conditions. Accordingly, the absence of any
reference to going concern uncertainty in an auditor’s report cannot be viewed as a guarantee as to the entity’s ability
to continue as a going concern.
Effective Date
8. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
9. The objectives of the auditor are:
(a) To obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the appropriateness of management’s use of the
going concern assumption in the preparation of the financial statements;
(b) To conclude, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern; and
(c) To determine the implications for the auditor’s report.
Requirements
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities
10. When performing risk assessment procedures as required by SLAuS 315,
3 the auditor shall consider whether there are
events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. In so
doing, the auditor shall determine whether management has already performed a preliminary assessment of the
entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, and: (Ref: Para. A2-A5)
(a) If such an assessment has been performed, the auditor shall discuss the assessment with management and
determine whether management has identified events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast
significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and, if so, management’s plans to
address them; or
(b) If such an assessment has not yet been performed, the auditor shall discuss with management the basis for the
intended use of the going concern assumption, and inquire of management whether events or conditions exist
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going
concern.
2 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards.”
3 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment,”
paragraph 5.

<!-- page 368 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
368A
11. The auditor shall remain alert throughout the audit for audit evidence of events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. (Ref: Para. A6)
Evaluating Management’s Assessment
12. The auditor shall evaluate management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. (Ref: Para.
A7-A9; A11-A12)
13. In evaluating management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, the auditor shall cover
the same period as that used by management to make its assessment as required by the applicable financial reporting
framework, or by law or regulation if it specifies a longer period. If management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to
continue as a going concern covers less than twelve months from the date of the financial statements as defined in
SLAuS 560,
4 the auditor shall request management to extend its assessment period to at least twelve months from that
date. (Ref: Para. A10-A12)
14. In evaluating management’s assessment, the auditor shall consider whether management’s assessment includes all
relevant information of which the auditor is aware as a result of the audit.
Period beyond Management’s Assessment
15. The auditor shall inquire of management as to its knowledge of events or conditions beyond the period of management’s
assessment that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. (Ref: Para.
A13-A14)
Additional Audit Procedures When Events or Conditions Are Identified
16. If events or conditions have been identified that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a
going concern, the auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to determine whether or not a material
uncertainty exists through performing additional audit procedures, including consideration of mitigating factors.
These procedures shall include: (Ref: Para. A15)
(a) Where management has not yet performed an assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern,
requesting management to make its assessment.
(b) Evaluating management’s plans for future actions in relation to its going concern assessment, whether the
outcome of these plans is likely to improve the situation and whether management’s plans are feasible in the
circumstances. (Ref: Para. A16)
(c) Where the entity has prepared a cash flow forecast, and analysis of the forecast is a significant factor in
considering the future outcome of events or conditions in the evaluation of management’s plans for future
action: (Ref: Para. A17-A18)
(i) Evaluating the reliability of the underlying data generated to prepare the forecast; and
UDITING
(ii) Determining whether there is adequate support for the assumptions underlying the forecast.
(d) Considering whether any additional facts or information have become available since the date on which
management made its assessment.
(e) Requesting written representations from management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance,
regarding their plans for future action and the feasibility of these plans.
4 SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events,” paragraph 5(a).

<!-- page 369 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
369A
Audit Conclusions and Reporting
17. Based on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor shall conclude whether, in the auditor’s judgment, a material
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the
entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. A material uncertainty exists when the magnitude of its potential
impact and likelihood of occurrence is such that, in the auditor’s judgment, appropriate disclosure of the nature and
implications of the uncertainty is necessary for: (Ref: Para. A19)
(a) In the case of a fair presentation financial reporting framework, the fair presentation of the financial statements,
or
(b) In the case of a compliance framework, the financial statements not to be misleading.
Use of Going Concern Assumption Appropriate but a Material Uncertainty Exists
18. If the auditor concludes that the use of the going concern assumption is appropriate in the circumstances but a
material uncertainty exists, the auditor shall determine whether the financial statements:
(a) Adequately describe the principal events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to
continue as a going concern and management’s plans to deal with these events or conditions; and
(b) Disclose clearly that there is a material uncertainty related to events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore, that it may be unable to realize its
assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. (Ref: Para. A20)
19. If adequate disclosure is made in the financial statements, the auditor shall express an unmodified opinion and
include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report to:
(a) Highlight the existence of a material uncertainty relating to the event or condition that may cast significant
doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern; and
 (b) Draw attention to the note in the financial statements that discloses the matters set out in paragraph 18. (See
SLAuS 706.
5) (Ref: Para. A21-A22)
20. If adequate disclosure is not made in the financial statements, the auditor shall express a qualified opinion or adverse
opinion, as appropriate, in accordance with SLAuS 705.6 The auditor shall state in the auditor’s report that there is a
material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt about the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern.
(Ref: Para. A23-A24)
Use of Going Concern Assumption Inappropriate
21. If the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis but, in the auditor’s judgment, management’s
use of the going concern assumption in the financial statements is inappropriate, the auditor shall express an adverse
opinion. (Ref: Para. A25-A26)
Management Unwilling to Make or Extend Its Assessment
22.  If management is unwilling to make or extend its assessment when requested to do so by the auditor, the auditor shall
consider the implications for the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A27)
5 SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”
6 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”

<!-- page 370 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
370A
Communication with Those Charged with Governance
23. Unless all those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity, 7 the auditor shall communicate with
those charged with governance events or conditions identified that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability
to continue as a going concern. Such communication with those charged with governance shall include the following:
(a) Whether the events or conditions constitute a material uncertainty;
(b) Whether the use of the going concern assumption is appropriate in the preparation and presentation of the
financial statements; and
(c) The adequacy of related disclosures in the financial statements.
Significant Delay in the Approval of Financial Statements
24. If there is significant delay in the approval of the financial statements by management or those charged with governance
after the date of the financial statements, the auditor shall inquire as to the reasons for the delay. If the auditor
believes that the delay could be related to events or conditions relating to the going concern assessment, the auditor
shall perform those additional audit procedures necessary, as described in paragraph 16, as well as consider the effect
on the auditor’s conclusion regarding the existence of a material uncertainty, as described in paragraph 17.
* * *
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Going Concern Assumption (Ref: Para. 2)
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A1. Management’s use of the going concern assumption is also relevant to public sector entities. For example, Sri Lanka
Public Sector Accounting Standard (SLPSAS) 1 addresses the issue of the ability of public sector entities to continue
as going concerns.
8 Going concern risks may arise, but are not limited to, situations where public sector entities
operate on a for-profit basis, where government support may be reduced or withdrawn, or in the case of privatization.
Events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on an entity’s ability to continue as a going concern in the public
sector may include situations where the public sector entity lacks funding for its continued existence or when policy
decisions are made that affect the services provided by the public sector entity.
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities
Events or Conditions That May Cast Doubt about Going Concern Assumption (Ref: Para. 10)
A2. The following are examples of events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt about
the going concern assumption. This listing is not all-inclusive nor does the existence of one or more of the items
always signify that a material uncertainty exists.
Financial
* Net liability or net current liability position.
* Fixed-term borrowings approaching maturity without realistic prospects of renewal or repayment; or excessive
reliance on short-term borrowings to finance long-term assets.
7 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 13.
8 LPSAS 1, “Presentation of Financial Statements” as at January 1, 2011, paragraphs 38-41.

<!-- page 371 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
371A
* Indications of withdrawal of financial support by creditors.
* Negative operating cash flows indicated by historical or prospective financial statements.
* Adverse key financial ratios.
* Substantial operating losses or significant deterioration in the value of assets used to generate cash flows.
* Arrears or discontinuance of dividends.
* Inability to pay creditors on due dates.
* Inability to comply with the terms of loan agreements.
* Change from credit to cash-on-delivery transactions with suppliers.
* Inability to obtain financing for essential new product development or other essential investments.
Operating
* Management intentions to liquidate the entity or to cease operations.
* Loss of key management without replacement.
* Loss of a major market, key customer(s), franchise, license, or principal supplier(s).
* Labor difficulties.
* Shortages of important supplies.
* Emergence of a highly successful competitor.
Other
* Non-compliance with capital or other statutory requirements.
* Pending legal or regulatory proceedings against the entity that may, if successful, result in claims that the entity
is unlikely to be able to satisfy.
* Changes in law or regulation or government policy expected to adversely affect the entity.
* Uninsured or underinsured catastrophes when they occur.
The significance of such events or conditions often can be mitigated by other factors. For example, the effect of an
entity being unable to make its normal debt repayments may be counter-balanced by management’s plans to
maintain adequate cash flows by alternative means, such as by disposing of assets, rescheduling loan repayments,
or obtaining additional capital. Similarly, the loss of a principal supplier may be mitigated by the availability of a
suitable alternative source of supply.
A3. The risk assessment procedures required by paragraph 10 help the auditor to determine whether management’s use
of the going concern assumption is likely to be an important issue and its impact on planning the audit. These
procedures also allow for more timely discussions with management, including a discussion of management’s plans
and resolution of any identified going concern issues.

<!-- page 372 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
372A
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A4. The size of an entity may affect its ability to withstand adverse conditions. Small entities may be able to respond
quickly to exploit opportunities, but may lack reserves to sustain operations.
A5. Conditions of particular relevance to small entities include the risk that banks and other lenders may cease to support
the entity, as well as the possible loss of a principal supplier, major customer, key employee, or the right to operate
under a license, franchise or other legal agreement.
Remaining Alert throughout the Audit for Audit Evidence about Events or Conditions (Ref: Para. 11)
A6. SLAuS 315 requires the auditor to revise the auditor’s risk assessment and modify the further planned audit procedures
accordingly when additional audit evidence is obtained during the course of the audit that affects the auditor’s
assessment of risk. 9 If events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a
going concern are identified after the auditor’s risk assessments are made, in addition to performing the procedures
in paragraph 16, the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement may need to be revised. The existence
of such events or conditions may also affect the nature, timing and extent of the auditor’s further procedures in
response to the assessed risks. SLAuS 330
10 establishes requirements and provides guidance on this issue.
Evaluating Management’s Assessment
Management’ s Assessment and Supporting Analysis and the Auditor’ s Evaluation (Ref: Para. 12)
A7. Management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern is a key part of the auditor’s
consideration of management’s use of the going concern assumption.
A8. It is not the auditor’s responsibility to rectify the lack of analysis by management. In some circumstances, however,
the lack of detailed analysis by management to support its assessment may not prevent the auditor from concluding
whether management’s use of the going concern assumption is appropriate in the circumstances. For example, when
there is a history of profitable operations and a ready access to financial resources, management may make its
assessment without detailed analysis. In this case, the auditor’s evaluation of the appropriateness of management’s
assessment may be made without performing detailed evaluation procedures if the auditor’s other audit procedures
are sufficient to enable the auditor to conclude whether management’s use of the going concern assumption in the
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate in the circumstances.
A9. In other circumstances, evaluating management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern,
as required by paragraph 12, may include an evaluation of the process management followed to make its assessment,
the assumptions on which the assessment is based and management’s plans for future action and whether
management’s plans are feasible in the circumstances.
The Period of Management’ s Assessment (Ref: Para. 13)
A10. Most financial reporting frameworks requiring an explicit management assessment specify the period for which
management is required to take into account all available information.
11
9 SLAuS 315, paragraph 31.
10 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”
11 For example, LKAS 1 defines this as a period that should be at least, but is not limited to, twelve months from the end of the reporting
period.

<!-- page 373 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
373A
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities (Ref: Para. 12-13)
A11. In many cases, the management of smaller entities may not have prepared a detailed assessment of the entity’s ability
to continue as a going concern, but instead may rely on in-depth knowledge of the business and anticipated future
prospects. Nevertheless, in accordance with the requirements of this SLAuS, the auditor needs to evaluate
management’s assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. For smaller entities, it may be
appropriate to discuss the medium and long-term financing of the entity with management, provided that management’s
contentions can be corroborated by sufficient documentary evidence and are not inconsistent with the auditor’s
understanding of the entity. Therefore, the requirement in paragraph 13 for the auditor to request management to
extend its assessment may, for example, be satisfied by discussion, inquiry and inspection of supporting documentation,
for example, orders received for future supply, evaluated as to their feasibility or otherwise substantiated.
A12. Continued support by owner-managers is often important to smaller entities’ ability to continue as a going concern.
Where a small entity is largely financed by a loan from the owner-manager, it may be important that these funds are
not withdrawn. For example, the continuance of a small entity in financial difficulty may be dependent on the owner-
manager subordinating a loan to the entity in favor of banks or other creditors, or the owner manager supporting a
loan for the entity by providing a guarantee with his or her personal assets as collateral. In such circumstances the
auditor may obtain appropriate documentary evidence of the subordination of the owner-manager’s loan or of the
guarantee. Where an entity is dependent on additional support from the owner-manager, the auditor may evaluate the
owner-manager’s ability to meet the obligation under the support arrangement. In addition, the auditor may request
written confirmation of the terms and conditions attaching to such support and the owner-manager’s intention or
understanding.
Period beyond Management’s Assessment (Ref: Para. 15)
A13. As required by paragraph 11, the auditor remains alert to the possibility that there may be known events, scheduled
or otherwise, or conditions that will occur beyond the period of assessment used by management that may bring into
question the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern assumption in preparing the financial
statements. Since the degree of uncertainty associated with the outcome of an event or condition increases as the
event or condition is further into the future, in considering events or conditions further in the future, the indications
of going concern issues need to be significant before the auditor needs to consider taking further action. If such
events or conditions are identified, the auditor may need to request management to evaluate the potential significance
of the event or condition on its assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. In these circumstances
the procedures in paragraph 16 apply.
A14. Other than inquiry of management, the auditor does not have a responsibility to perform any other audit procedures
to identify events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern
beyond the period assessed by management, which, as discussed in paragraph 13, would be at least twelve months
from the date of the financial statements.
Additional Audit Procedures When Events or Conditions Are Identified (Ref: Para. 16)
A15. Audit procedures that are relevant to the requirement in paragraph 16 may include the following:
* Analyzing and discussing cash flow, profit and other relevant forecasts with management.
* Analyzing and discussing the entity’s latest available interim financial statements.
* Reading the terms of debentures and loan agreements and determining whether any have been breached.
* Reading minutes of the meetings of shareholders, those charged with governance and relevant committees for
reference to financing difficulties.

<!-- page 374 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
374A
* Inquiring of the entity’s legal counsel regarding the existence of litigation and claims and the reasonableness of
management’s assessments of their outcome and the estimate of their financial implications.
* Confirming the existence, legality and enforceability of arrangements to provide or maintain financial support
with related and third parties and assessing the financial ability of such parties to provide additional funds.
* Evaluating the entity’s plans to deal with unfilled customer orders.
* Performing audit procedures regarding subsequent events to identify those that either mitigate or otherwise
affect the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern.
* Confirming the existence, terms and adequacy of borrowing facilities.
* Obtaining and reviewing reports of regulatory actions.
* Determining the adequacy of support for any planned disposals of assets.
Evaluating Management’ s Plans for Future Actions (Ref: Para. 16(b))
A16. Evaluating management’s plans for future actions may include inquiries of management as to its plans for future
action, including, for example, its plans to liquidate assets, borrow money or restructure debt, reduce or delay
expenditures, or increase capital.
The Period of Management’ s Assessment (Ref: Para. 16(c))
A17. In addition to the procedures required in paragraph 16(c), the auditor may compare:
* The prospective financial information for recent prior periods with historical results; and
* The prospective financial information for the current period with results achieved to date.
A18. Where management’s assumptions include continued support by third parties, whether through the subordination of
loans, commitments to maintain or provide additional funding, or guarantees, and such support is important to an
entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, the auditor may need to consider requesting written confirmation
(including of terms and conditions) from those third parties and to obtain evidence of their ability to provide such
support.
AUDITING
Audit Conclusions and Reporting (Ref: Para. 17)
A19. The phrase “material uncertainty” is used in LKAS 1 in discussing the uncertainties related to events or conditions
which may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern that should be disclosed in the
financial statements. In some other financial reporting frameworks the phrase “significant uncertainty” is used in
similar circumstances.
Use of Going Concern Assumption Appropriate but a Material Uncertainty Exists
Adequacy of Disclosure of Material Uncertainty (Ref: Para. 18)
A20. The determination of the adequacy of the financial statement disclosure may involve determining whether the
information explicitly draws the reader’s attention to the possibility that the entity may be unable to continue realizing
its assets and discharging its liabilities in the normal course of business.

<!-- page 375 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
375A
Audit Reporting When Disclosure of Material Uncertainty Is Adequate (Ref: Para. 19)
A21. The following is an illustration of an Emphasis of Matter paragraph when the auditor is satisfied as to the adequacy
of the note disclosure:
Emphasis of Matter
Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note X in the financial statements which indicates that the
Company incurred a net loss of ZZZ during the year ended December 31, 20X1 and, as of that date, the Company’s
current liabilities exceeded its total assets by YYY . These conditions, along with other matters as set forth in Note X,
indicate the existence of a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt about the Company’s ability to
continue as a going concern.
A22. In situations involving multiple material uncertainties that are significant to the financial statements as a whole, the
auditor may consider it appropriate in extremely rare cases to express a disclaimer of opinion instead of adding an
Emphasis of Matter paragraph. SLAuS 705 provides guidance on this issue.
Audit Reporting When Disclosure of Material Uncertainty Is Inadequate (Ref: Para. 20)
A23. The following is an illustration of the relevant paragraphs when a qualified opinion is to be expressed:
Basis for Qualified Opinion
The Company’s financing arrangements expire and amounts outstanding are payable on March 19, 20X1. The Company
has been unable to re-negotiate or obtain replacement financing. This situation indicates the existence of a material
uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and therefore
the Company may be unable to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. The
financial statements (and notes thereto) do not fully disclose this fact.
Qualified Opinion
In our opinion, except for the incomplete disclosure of the information referred to in the Basis for Qualified Opinion
paragraph, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects (or “give a true and fair view of”) the financial
position of the Company as at December 31, 20X0, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then
ended in accordance with …
A24. The following is an illustration of the relevant paragraphs when an adverse opinion is to be expressed:
Basis for Adverse Opinion
The Company’s financing arrangements expired and the amount outstanding was payable on December 31, 20X0. The
Company has been unable to re-negotiate or obtain replacement financing and is considering filing for bankruptcy.
These events indicate a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as
a going concern and therefore the Company may be unable to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the
normal course of business. The financial statements (and notes thereto) do not disclose this fact.
Adverse Opinion
In our opinion, because of the omission of the information mentioned in the Basis for Adverse Opinion paragraph, the
financial statements do not present fairly (or “give a true and fair view of”) the financial position of the Company as
at December 31, 20X0, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with

<!-- page 376 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
376A
Use of Going Concern Assumption Inappropriate (Ref: Para. 21)
A25. If the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis but, in the auditor’s judgment, management’s
use of the going concern assumption in the financial statements is inappropriate, the requirement of paragraph 21 for
the auditor to express an adverse opinion applies regardless of whether or not the financial statements include
disclosure of the inappropriateness of management’s use of the going concern assumption.
A26.  If the entity’s management is required, or elects, to prepare financial statements when the use of the going concern
assumption is not appropriate in the circumstances, the financial statements are prepared on an alternative basis (for
example, liquidation basis). The auditor may be able to perform an audit of those financial statements provided that
the auditor determines that the alternative basis is an acceptable financial reporting framework in the circumstances.
The auditor may be able to express an unmodified opinion on those financial statements, provided there is adequate
disclosure therein but may consider it appropriate or necessary to include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in the
auditor’s report to draw the user’s attention to that alternative basis and the reasons for its use.
Management Unwilling to Make or Extend Its Assessment (Ref: Para. 22)
A27. In certain circumstances, the auditor may believe it necessary to request management to make or extend its assessment.
If management is unwilling to do so, a qualified opinion or a disclaimer of opinion in the auditor’s report may be
appropriate, because it may not be possible for the auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding
the use of the going concern assumption in the preparation of the financial statements, such as audit evidence
regarding the existence of plans management has put in place or the existence of other mitigating factors.

<!-- page 377 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
377A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  580
WRITTEN  REPRESENTATIONS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for period beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS  ............................................................................ 1-2
Written Representations as Audit Evidence ................. ........................ 3-4
Effective Date  ....................................................................................... 5
Objectives  ............................................................................................ 6
Definitions  ........................................................................................... 7-8
Requirements
Management from whom Written Representations Requested ............ 9
Written Representations about Management’s Responsibilities …...... 10-12
Other Written Representations ............................................................. 13
Date of and Period(s) Covered by Written Representations ................. 14
Form of Written Representations  .......................................................... 15
Doubt as to the Reliability of Written Representations and
Requested Written Representations Not Provided ...................... 16-20
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Written Representations as Audit Evidence ................. ........................ A1
Management from whom Written Representations Requested …........ A2-A6
Written Representations about Management’s Responsibilities  …...... A7-A9
Other Written Representations  ............................................................. A10-A13
Communicating a Threshold Amount  ..................................................  A14
Date of and Period(s) Covered by Written Representations  ................ A15-A18
Form of Written Representations  ........................................................ A19-A21
Communication with Those Charged with Governance ..................... A22
Doubt as to the Reliability of Written Representations and
Requested Written Representations Not Provided  ……............. A23-A27
Appendix 1: List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Written
Representations
Appendix 2: Illustrative Representation Letter
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 580, “Written Representations” should be read in
conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct
of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”

<!-- page 378 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
378A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to obtain written representations
from management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance in an audit of financial statements.
2. Appendix 1 lists other SLAuSs containing subject-matter specific requirements for written representations. The
specific requirements for written representations of other SLAuSs do not limit the application of this SLAuS.
Written Representations as Audit Evidence
3. Audit evidence is the information used by the auditor in arriving at the conclusions on which the auditor’s opinion is
based.1 Written representations are necessary information that the auditor requires in connection with the audit of the
entity’s financial statements. Accordingly, similar to responses to inquiries, written representations are audit evidence.
(Ref: Para. A1)
4. Although written representations provide necessary audit evidence, they do not provide sufficient appropriate audit
evidence on their own about any of the matters with which they deal. Furthermore, the fact that management has
provided reliable written representations does not affect the nature or extent of other audit evidence that the auditor
obtains about the fulfillment of management’s responsibilities, or about specific assertions.
Effective Date
5. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
6. The objectives of the auditor are:
(a) To obtain written representations from management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance
that they believe that they have fulfilled their responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements and
for the completeness of the information provided to the auditor;
(b) To support other audit evidence relevant to the financial statements or specific assertions in the financial
statements by means of written representations if determined necessary by the auditor or required by other
SLAuSs; and
AUDITING
(c) To respond appropriately to written representations provided by management and, where appropriate, those
charged with governance, or if management or, where appropriate, those charged with governance do not
provide the written representations requested by the auditor.
Definitions
7. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following term has the meaning attributed below:
Written representation – A written statement by management provided to the auditor to confirm certain matters or to
support other audit evidence. Written representations in this context do not include financial statements, the assertions
therein, or supporting books and records.
1 SLAuS 500, “Audit Evidence,” paragraph 5(c).

<!-- page 379 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
379A
8. For purposes of this SLAuS, references to “management” should be read as “management and, where appropriate,
those charged with governance.” Furthermore, in the case of a fair presentation framework, management is responsible
for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial
reporting framework; or the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the
applicable financial reporting framework.
Requirements
Management from whom Written Representations Requested
9. The auditor shall request written representations from management with appropriate responsibilities for the financial
statements and knowledge of the matters concerned. (Ref: Para. A2-A6)
Written Representations about Management’s Responsibilities
Preparation of the Financial Statements
10. The auditor shall request management to provide a written representation that it has fulfilled its responsibility for the
preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework, including
where relevant their fair presentation, as set out in the terms of the audit engagement.
2 (Ref: Para. A7-A9, A14, A22)
Information Provided and Completeness of Transactions
11. The auditor shall request management to provide a written representation that:
(a) It has provided the auditor with all relevant information and access as agreed in the terms of the audit engagement,3
and
(b) All transactions have been recorded and are reflected in the financial statements. (Ref: Para. A7-A9, A14, A22)
Description of Management’ s Responsibilities in the Written Representations
12. Management’s responsibilities shall be described in the written representations required by paragraphs 10 and 11 in
the manner in which these responsibilities are described in the terms of the audit engagement.
Other Written Representations
13. Other SLAuSs require the auditor to request written representations. If, in addition to such required representations,
the auditor determines that it is necessary to obtain one or more written representations to support other audit
evidence relevant to the financial statements or one or more specific assertions in the financial statements, the auditor
shall request such other written representations. (Ref: Para. A10-A13, A14, A22)
Date of and Period(s) Covered by Written Representations
14. The date of the written representations shall be as near as practicable to, but not after, the date of the auditor’s report
on the financial statements. The written representations shall be for all financial statements and period(s) referred to
in the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A15-A18)
2 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements,” paragraph 6(b)(i).
3 SLAuS 210, paragraph 6(b)(iii).

<!-- page 380 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
380A
Form of Written Representations
15. The written representations shall be in the form of a representation letter addressed to the auditor. If law or regulation
requires management to make written public statements about its responsibilities, and the auditor determines that
such statements provide some or all of the representations required by paragraphs 10 or 11, the relevant matters
covered by such statements need not be included in the representation letter. (Ref: Para. A19-A21)
Doubt as to the Reliability of Written Representations and Requested Written Representations Not Provided
Doubt as to the Reliability of Written Representations
16. If the auditor has concerns about the competence, integrity, ethical values or diligence of management, or about its
commitment to or enforcement of these, the auditor shall determine the effect that such concerns may have on the
reliability of representations (oral or written) and audit evidence in general. (Ref: Para. A24-A25)
AUDITING
17. In particular, if written representations are inconsistent with other audit evidence, the auditor shall perform audit
procedures to attempt to resolve the matter. If the matter remains unresolved, the auditor shall reconsider the assessment
of the competence, integrity, ethical values or diligence of management, or of its commitment to or enforcement of
these, and shall determine the effect that this may have on the reliability of representations (oral or written) and audit
evidence in general. (Ref: Para. A23)
18. If the auditor concludes that the written representations are not reliable, the auditor shall take appropriate actions,
including determining the possible effect on the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705,
4
having regard to the requirement in paragraph 20 of this SLAuS.
Requested Written Representations Not Provided
19. If management does not provide one or more of the requested written representations, the auditor shall:
(a) Discuss the matter with management;
(b) Reevaluate the integrity of management and evaluate the effect that this may have on the reliability of
representations (oral or written) and audit evidence in general; and
(c) Take appropriate actions, including determining the possible effect on the opinion in the auditor’s report in
accordance with SLAuS 705, having regard to the requirement in paragraph 20 of this SLAuS.
Written Representations about Management’ s Responsibilities
20. The auditor shall disclaim an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with SLAuS 705 if:
(a) The auditor concludes that there is sufficient doubt about the integrity of management such that the written
representations required by paragraphs 10 and 11 are not reliable; or
(b) Management does not provide the written representations required by paragraphs 10 and 11. (Ref: Para.
A26-A27)
* * *
4 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”

<!-- page 381 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
381A
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Written Representations as Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 3)
A1. Written representations are an important source of audit evidence. If management modifies or does not provide the
requested written representations, it may alert the auditor to the possibility that one or more significant issues may
exist. Further, a request for written, rather than oral, representations in many cases may prompt management to
consider such matters more rigorously, thereby enhancing the quality of the representations.
Management from whom Written Representations Requested (Ref: Para. 9)
A2. Written representations are requested from those responsible for the preparation of the financial statements. Those
individuals may vary depending on the governance structure of the entity, and relevant law or regulation; however,
management (rather than those charged with governance) is often the responsible party. Written representations may
therefore be requested from the entity’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer, or other equivalent persons
in entities that do not use such titles. In some circumstances, however, other parties, such as those charged with
governance, are also responsible for the preparation of the financial statements.
A3. Due to its responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements, and its responsibilities for the conduct of the
entity’s business, management would be expected to have sufficient knowledge of the process followed by the entity
in preparing and presenting the financial statements and the assertions therein on which to base the written
representations.
A4. In some cases, however, management may decide to make inquiries of others who participate in preparing and
presenting the financial statements and assertions therein, including individuals who have specialized knowledge
relating to the matters about which written representations are requested. Such individuals may include:
* An actuary responsible for actuarially determined accounting measurements.
* Staff engineers who may have responsibility for and specialized knowledge about environmental liability
measurements.
* Internal counsel who may provide information essential to provisions for legal claims.
A5. In some cases, management may include in the written representations qualifying language to the effect that
representations are made to the best of its knowledge and belief. It is reasonable for the auditor to accept such
wording if the auditor is satisfied that the representations are being made by those with appropriate responsibilities
and knowledge of the matters included in the representations.
A6. To reinforce the need for management to make informed representations, the auditor may request that management
include in the written representations confirmation that it has made such inquiries as it considered appropriate to
place it in the position to be able to make the requested written representations. It is not expected that such inquiries
would usually require a formal internal process beyond those already established by the entity.
Written Representations about Management’s Responsibilities
(Ref: Para. 10-11)
A7. Audit evidence obtained during the audit that management has fulfilled the responsibilities referred to in paragraphs
10 and 11 is not sufficient without obtaining confirmation from management that it believes that it has fulfilled those
responsibilities. This is because the auditor is not able to judge solely on other audit evidence whether management
has prepared and presented the financial statements and provided information to the auditor on the basis of the
agreed acknowledgement and understanding of its responsibilities. For example, the auditor could not conclude that
management has provided the auditor with all relevant information agreed in the terms of the audit engagement
without asking it whether, and receiving confirmation that, such information has been provided.

<!-- page 382 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
382A
A8. The written representations required by paragraphs 10 and 11 draw on the agreed acknowledgement and understanding
of management of its responsibilities in the terms of the audit engagement by requesting confirmation that it has
fulfilled them. The auditor may also ask management to reconfirm its acknowledgement and understanding of those
responsibilities in written representations. This is common in certain jurisdictions, but in any event may be particularly
appropriate when:
* Those who signed the terms of the audit engagement on behalf of the entity no longer have the relevant
responsibilities;
* The terms of the audit engagement were prepared in a previous year;
* There is any indication that management misunderstands those responsibilities; or
* Changes in circumstances make it appropriate to do so.
Consistent with the requirement of SLAuS 210, 
5 such reconfirmation of management’s acknowledgement and
understanding of its responsibilities is not made subject to the best of management’s knowledge and belief (as
discussed in paragraph A5 of this SLAuS).
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A9. The mandates for audits of the financial statements of public sector entities may be broader than those of other
entities. As a result, the premise, relating to management’s responsibilities, on which an audit of the financial statements
of a public sector entity is conducted may give rise to additional written representations. These may include written
representations confirming that transactions and events have been carried out in accordance with law, regulation or
other authority.
Other Written Representations (Ref: Para. 13)
Additional Written Representations about the Financial Statements
A10. In addition to the written representation required by paragraph 10, the auditor may consider it necessary to request
other written representations about the financial statements. Such written representations may supplement, but do
not form part of, the written representation required by paragraph 10. They may include representations about the
following:
* Whether the selection and application of accounting policies are appropriate; and
* Whether matters such as the following, where relevant under the applicable financial reporting framework, have
been recognized, measured, presented or disclosed in accordance with that framework:
o Plans or intentions that may affect the carrying value or classification of assets and liabilities;
o Liabilities, both actual and contingent;
o Title to, or control over, assets, the liens or encumbrances on assets, and assets pledged as collateral; and
o Aspects of laws, regulations and contractual agreements that may affect the financial statements, including
non-compliance.
5 SLAuS 210, paragraph 6(b).

<!-- page 383 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
383A
Additional Written Representations about Information Provided to the Auditor
A11. In addition to the written representation required by paragraph 11, the auditor may consider it necessary to request
management to provide a written representation that it has communicated to the auditor all deficiencies in internal
control of which management is aware.
Written Representations about Specific Assertions
A12. When obtaining evidence about, or evaluating, judgments and intentions, the auditor may consider one or more of
the following:
* The entity’s past history in carrying out its stated intentions.
* The entity’s reasons for choosing a particular course of action.
* The entity’s ability to pursue a specific course of action.
* The existence or lack of any other information that might have been obtained during the course of the audit that
may be inconsistent with management’s judgment or intent.
A13. In addition, the auditor may consider it necessary to request management to provide written representations about
specific assertions in the financial statements; in particular, to support an understanding that the auditor has obtained
from other audit evidence of management’s judgment or intent in relation to, or the completeness of, a specific
assertion. For example, if the intent of management is important to the valuation basis for investments, it may not be
possible to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence without a written representation from management about its
intentions. Although such written representations provide necessary audit evidence, they do not provide sufficient
appropriate audit evidence on their own for that assertion.
Communicating a Threshold Amount (Ref: Para. 10-11, 13)
A14. SLAuS 450 requires the auditor to accumulate misstatements identified during the audit, other than those that are
clearly trivial.
6 The auditor may determine a threshold above which misstatements cannot be regarded as clearly
trivial. In the same way, the auditor may consider communicating to management a threshold for purposes of the
requested written representations.
Date of and Period(s) Covered by Written Representations (Ref: Para. 14)
A15. Because written representations are necessary audit evidence, the auditor’s opinion cannot be expressed, and the
auditor’s report cannot be dated, before the date of the written representations. Furthermore, because the auditor is
concerned with events occurring up to the date of the auditor’s report that may require adjustment to or disclosure in
the financial statements, the written representations are dated as near as practicable to, but not after, the date of the
auditor’s report on the financial statements.
A16. In some circumstances it may be appropriate for the auditor to obtain a written representation about a specific
assertion in the financial statements during the course of the audit. Where this is the case, it may be necessary to
request an updated written representation.
A17. The written representations are for all periods referred to in the auditor’s report because management needs to
reaffirm that the written representations it previously made with respect to the prior periods remain appropriate. The
auditor and management may agree to a form of written representation that updates written representations relating
to the prior periods by addressing whether there are any changes to such written representations and, if so, what they
are.
6 SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit,” paragraph 5.

<!-- page 384 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
384A
A18. Situations may arise where current management were not present during all periods referred to in the auditor’s report.
Such persons may assert that they are not in a position to provide some or all of the written representations because
they were not in place during the period. This fact, however, does not diminish such persons’ responsibilities for the
financial statements as a whole. Accordingly, the requirement for the auditor to request from them written
representations that cover the whole of the relevant period(s) still applies.
Form of Written Representations (Ref: Para. 15)
A19. W ritten representations are required to be included in a representation letter addressed to the auditor. In some
jurisdictions, however, management may be required by law or regulation to make a written public statement about its
responsibilities. Although such statement is a representation to the users of the financial statements, or to relevant
authorities, the auditor may determine that it is an appropriate form of written representation in respect of some or all
of the representations required by paragraph 10 or 11. Consequently, the relevant matters covered by such statement
need not be included in the representation letter. Factors that may affect the auditor’s determination include:
* Whether the statement includes confirmation of the fulfillment of the responsibilities referred to in paragraphs
10 and 11.
* Whether the statement has been given or approved by those from whom the auditor requests the relevant
written representations.
* Whether a copy of the statement is provided to the auditor as near as practicable to, but not after, the date of
the auditor’s report on the financial statements (see paragraph 14).
A20. A formal statement of compliance with law or regulation, or of approval of the financial statements, would not contain
sufficient information for the auditor to be satisfied that all necessary representations have been consciously made.
The expression of management’s responsibilities in law or regulation is also not a substitute for the requested written
representations.
A21. Appendix 2 provides an illustrative example of a representation letter.
Communication with Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 10-11, 13)
A22. SLAuS 260 requires the auditor to communicate with those charged with governance the written representations
which the auditor has requested from management.
7
AUDITING
Doubt as to the Reliability of Written Representations and Requested Written Representations Not Provided
Doubt as to the Reliability of Written Representations (Ref: Para. 16-17)
A23. In the case of identified inconsistencies between one or more written representations and audit evidence obtained
from another source, the auditor may consider whether the risk assessment remains appropriate and, if not, revise the
risk assessment and determine the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures to respond to the assessed
risks.
A24. Concerns about the competence, integrity, ethical values or diligence of management, or about its commitment to or
enforcement of these, may cause the auditor to conclude that the risk of management misrepresentation in the
financial statements is such that an audit cannot be conducted. In such a case, the auditor may consider withdrawing
from the engagement, where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or regulation, unless those charged with
governance put in place appropriate corrective measures. Such measures, however, may not be sufficient to enable
the auditor to issue an unmodified audit opinion.
7 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 16(c)(ii).

<!-- page 385 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
385A
A25. SLAuS 230 requires the auditor to document significant matters arising during the audit, the conclusions reached
thereon, and significant professional judgments made in reaching those conclusions.8 The auditor may have identified
significant issues relating to the competence, integrity, ethical values or diligence of management, or about its
commitment to or enforcement of these, but concluded that the written representations are nevertheless reliable. In
such a case, this significant matter is documented in accordance with SLAuS 230.
Written Representations about Management’ s Responsibilities (Ref: Para. 20)
A26. As explained in paragraph A7, the auditor is not able to judge solely on other audit evidence whether management has
fulfilled the responsibilities referred to in paragraphs 10 and 11. Therefore, if, as described in paragraph 20(a), the
auditor concludes that the written representations about these matters are unreliable, or if management does not
provide those written representations, the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. The
possible effects on the financial statements of such inability are not confined to specific elements, accounts or items
of the financial statements and are hence pervasive. SLAuS 705 requires the auditor to disclaim an opinion on the
financial statements in such circumstances.
9
A27. A written representation that has been modified from that requested by the auditor does not necessarily mean that
management did not provide the written representation. However, the underlying reason for such modification may
affect the opinion in the auditor’s report. For example:
* The written representation about management’s fulfillment of its responsibility for the preparation of the
financial statements may state that management believes that, except for material non-compliance with a particular
requirement of the applicable financial reporting framework, the financial statements are prepared in accordance
with that framework. The requirement in paragraph 20 does not apply because the auditor concluded that
management has provided reliable written representations. However, the auditor is required to consider the
effect of the non-compliance on the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705.
* The written representation about the responsibility of management to provide the auditor with all relevant
information agreed in the terms of the audit engagement may state that management believes that, except for
information destroyed in a fire, it has provided the auditor with such information. The requirement in paragraph
20 does not apply because the auditor concluded that management has provided reliable written representations.
However, the auditor is required to consider the effects of the pervasiveness of the information destroyed in the
fire on the financial statements and the effect thereof on the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with
SLAuS 705.AUDITING
Appendix 1
(Ref: Para. 2)
List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Written
Representations
This appendix identifies paragraphs in other SLAuSs in effect for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or
after 01 January 2014 that require subject-matter specific written representations. The list is not a substitute for considering
the requirements and related application and other explanatory material in SLAuSs.
* SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements” – paragraph 39
* SLAuS 250, “Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements” – paragraph 16
* SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit” – paragraph 14
8 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8(c) and 10.
9 SLAuS 705, paragraph 9.

<!-- page 386 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
386A
* SLAuS 501, “Audit Evidence—Specific Considerations for Selected Items” – paragraph 12
* SLAuS 540, “Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures”
– paragraph 22
* SLAuS 550, “Related Parties” – paragraph 26
* SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events” – paragraph 9
* SLAuS 570, “Going Concern” – paragraph 16(e)
* SLAuS 710, “Comparative Information—Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements” –
paragraph 9
Appendix 2
(Ref: Para. A21)
Illustrative Representation Letter
The following illustrative letter includes written representations that are required by this and other SLAuSs in effect
for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014. It is assumed in this illustration that the
applicable financial reporting framework is Sri Lanka Accounting Standards; the requirement of SLAuS 570
10 to obtain a
written representation is not relevant; and that there are no exceptions to the requested written representations. If there were
exceptions, the representations would need to be modified to reflect the exceptions.
(Entity Letterhead)
(To Auditor) (Date)
This representation letter is provided in connection with your audit of the financial statements of ABC Company for
the year ended December 31, 20XX 11 for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether the financial statements are
presented fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair view) in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
We confirm that (, to the best of our knowledge and belief, having made such inquiries as we considered
necessary for the purpose of appropriately informing ourselves ):
Financial Statements
* We have fulfilled our responsibilities, as set out in the terms of the audit engagement dated [insert date], for the
preparation of the financial statements in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards; in particular the
financial statements are fairly presented (or give a true and fair view) in accordance therewith.
* Significant assumptions used by us in making accounting estimates, including those measured at fair value, are
reasonable. (SLAuS 540)
* Related party relationships and transactions have been appropriately accounted for and disclosed in accordance
with the requirements of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. (SLAuS 550)
·ITING
10 SLAuS 570, “Going Concern.”
11 Where the auditor reports on more than one period, the auditor adjusts the date so that the letter pertains to all periods cove red by the
auditor’s report.

<!-- page 387 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
387A
* All events subsequent to the date of the financial statements and for which Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
require adjustment or disclosure have been adjusted or disclosed. (SLAuS 560)
* The effects of uncorrected misstatements are immaterial, both individually and in the aggregate, to the financial
statements as a whole. A list of the uncorrected misstatements is attached to the representation letter. (SLAuS
450)
*  [Any other matters that the auditor may consider appropriate (see paragraph A10 of this SLAuS).]
Information Provided
* We have provided you with:
o Access to all information of which we are aware that is relevant to the preparation of the financial statements
such as records, documentation and other matters;
o Additional information that you have requested from us for the purpose of the audit; and
o Unrestricted access to persons within the entity from whom you determined it necessary to obtain audit
evidence.
* All transactions have been recorded in the accounting records and are reflected in the financial statements.
* We have disclosed to you the results of our assessment of the risk that the financial statements may be materially
misstated as a result of fraud. (SLAuS 240)
* We have disclosed to you all information in relation to fraud or suspected fraud that we are aware of and that affects
the entity and involves:
o Management;
o Employees who have significant roles in internal control; or
o Others where the fraud could have a material effect on the financial statements. (SLAuS 240)
* We have disclosed to you all information in relation to allegations of fraud, or suspected fraud, affecting the entity’s
financial statements communicated by employees, former employees, analysts, regulators or others. (SLAuS 240)
* We have disclosed to you all known instances of non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with laws and
regulations whose effects should be considered when preparing financial statements. (SLAuS 250)
* We have disclosed to you the identity of the entity’s related parties and all the related party relationships and
transactions of which we are aware. (SLAuS 550)
* [Any other matters that the auditor may consider necessary (see paragraph A11 of this SLAuS).]
Management Management

<!-- page 388 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
388A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  600
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS—AUDITS OF GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(INCLUDING THE WORK  OF COMPONENT AUDITORS)
(Effective for audits of group financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................ 1-6
Effective Date  ...................................................................................... 7
Objectives  ........................................................................................... 8
Definitions ........................................................................................... 9-10
Requirements
Responsibility ....................................................................................... 11
Acceptance and Continuance  ............................................................... 12-14
Overall Audit Strategy and Audit Plan  ................................................ 15-16
Understanding the Group, Its Components and Their
Environments ……………………………………………......... 17-18
Understanding the Component Auditor  ................................................ 19-20
Materiality ............................................................................................ 21-23
Responding to Assessed Risks ............................................................. 24-31
Consolidation Process  .......................................................................... 32-37
Subsequent Events  ............................................................................... 38-39
Communication with the Component Auditor ..................................... 40-41
Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence
Obtained  ..................................................................................... 42-45
Communication with Group Management and Those Charged with
Governance of the Group ........................................................... 46-49
Documentation  ..................................................................................... 50
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Components Subject to Audit by Statute, Regulation or
Other Reason ………………………………………………..... A1
Definitions  ............................................................................................ A2-A7
Responsibility ....................................................................................... A8-A9
Acceptance and Continuance ............................................................... A10-A21
Overall Audit Strategy and Audit Plan  ................................................ A22
Understanding the Group, Its Components and Their
Environments  ............................................................................. A23-A31
Understanding the Component Auditor  ................................................ A32-A41
Materiality ........................................................................................... A42-A46
Responding to Assessed Risks  ............................................................. A47-A55
Consolidation Process  ……………….................................................. A56

<!-- page 389 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
389A
Communication with the Component Auditor  ..................................... A57-A60
Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence
Obtained .................................................................................... A61-A63
Communication with Group Management and Those Charged with
Governance of the Group  ........................................................... A64-A66
Appendix 1: Example of a Qualified Opinion Where the Group
Engagement Team Is Not Able to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate
Audit Evidence on Which to Base the Group Audit Opinion
Appendix 2: Examples of Matters about Which the Group Engagement
Team Obtains an Understanding
Appendix 3: Examples of Conditions or Events that May Indicate
Risks of Material Misstatement of the Group Financial Statements
Appendix 4: Examples of a Component Auditor’s Confirmations
Appendix 5: Required and Additional Matters Included in the Group
Engagement Team’s Letter of Instruction
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 600, “Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial
Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)” should be read in conjunction with
SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in
Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. The Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuSs) apply to group audits. This SLAuS deals with special considerations that
apply to group audits, in particular those that involve component auditors.
2. An auditor may find this SLAuS, adapted as necessary in the circumstances, useful when that auditor involves other
auditors in the audit of financial statements that are not group financial statements. For example, an auditor may
involve another auditor to observe the inventory count or inspect physical fixed assets at a remote location.
3. A component auditor may be required by statute, regulation or for another reason, to express an audit opinion on the
financial statements of a component. The group engagement team may decide to use the audit evidence on which the
audit opinion on the financial statements of the component is based to provide audit evidence for the group audit, but
the requirements of this SLAuS nevertheless apply. (Ref: Para. A1)
4. In accordance with SLAuS 220,
1 the group engagement partner is required to be satisfied that those performing the
group audit engagement, including component auditors, collectively have the appropriate competence and capabilities.
The group engagement partner is also responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit
engagement.
5. The group engagement partner applies the requirements of SLAuS 220 regardless of whether the group engagement
team or a component auditor performs the work on the financial information of a component. This SLAuS assists the
group engagement partner to meet the requirements of SLAuS 220 where component auditors perform work on the
financial information of components.
1 SLAuS 220, “Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraphs 14 and 15.

<!-- page 390 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
390A
6. Audit risk is a function of the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements and the risk that the auditor will
not detect such misstatements. 2 In a group audit, this includes the risk that the component auditor may not detect a
misstatement in the financial information of the component that could cause a material misstatement of the group
financial statements, and the risk that the group engagement team may not detect this misstatement. This SLAuS
explains the matters that the group engagement team considers when determining the nature, timing and extent of its
involvement in the risk assessment procedures and further audit procedures performed by the component auditors
on the financial information of the components. The purpose of this involvement is to obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence on which to base the audit opinion on the group financial statements.
Effective Date
7. This SLAuS is effective for audits of group financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
8. The objectives of the auditor are:
(a) To determine whether to act as the auditor of the group financial statements; and
(b) If acting as the auditor of the group financial statements:
(i) To communicate clearly with component auditors about the scope and timing of their work on financial
information related to components and their findings; and
(ii) To obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the components and
the consolidation process to express an opinion on whether the group financial statements are prepared,
in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
Definitions
9. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Component – An entity or business activity for which group or component management prepares financial
information that should be included in the group financial statements. (Ref: Para. A2-A4)
(b) Component auditor – An auditor who, at the request of the group engagement team, performs work on financial
information related to a component for the group audit. (Ref: Para. A7)
(c) Component management – Management responsible for the preparation of the financial information of a
component.
(d) Component materiality – The materiality for a component determined by the group engagement team.
(e) Group – All the components whose financial information is included in the group financial statements. A group
always has more than one component.
(f) Group audit – The audit of group financial statements.
AUDITING
(g) Group audit opinion – The audit opinion on the group financial statements.
2 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph A32.

<!-- page 391 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
391A
(h) Group engagement partner – The partner or other person in the firm who is responsible for the group audit
engagement and its performance, and for the auditor’s report on the group financial statements that is issued on
behalf of the firm. Where joint auditors conduct the group audit, the joint engagement partners and their
engagement teams collectively constitute the group engagement partner and the group engagement team. This
SLAuS does not, however, deal with the relationship between joint auditors or the work that one joint auditor
performs in relation to the work of the other joint auditor.
(i) Group engagement team – Partners, including the group engagement partner, and staff who establish the
overall group audit strategy, communicate with component auditors, perform work on the consolidation process,
and evaluate the conclusions drawn from the audit evidence as the basis for forming an opinion on the group
financial statements.
(j) Group financial statements – Financial statements that include the financial information of more than one
component. The term “group financial statements” also refers to combined financial statements aggregating
the financial information prepared by components that have no parent but are under common control.
(k) Group management – Management responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements.
(l) Group-wide controls – Controls designed, implemented and maintained by group management over group
financial reporting.
(m) Significant component – A component identified by the group engagement team (i) that is of individual financial
significance to the group, or (ii) that, due to its specific nature or circumstances, is likely to include significant
risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements. (Ref: Para. A5-A6)
10. Reference to “the applicable financial reporting framework” means the financial reporting framework that applies to
the group financial statements. Reference to “the consolidation process” includes:
(a) The recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of the financial information of the components in
the group financial statements by way of consolidation, proportionate consolidation, or the equity or cost
methods of accounting; and
(b) The aggregation in combined financial statements of the financial information of components that have no
parent but are under common control.
Requirements
Responsibility
11. The group engagement partner is responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit
engagement in compliance with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements, and whether
the auditor’s report that is issued is appropriate in the circumstances.
3 As a result, the auditor’s report on the group
financial statements shall not refer to a component auditor, unless required by law or regulation to include such
reference. If such reference is required by law or regulation, the auditor’s report shall indicate that the reference does
not diminish the group engagement partner’s or the group engagement partner’s firm’s responsibility for the group
audit opinion. (Ref: Para. A8-A9)
3 SLAuS 220, paragraph 15.

<!-- page 392 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
392A
Acceptance and Continuance
12. In applying SLAuS 220, the group engagement partner shall determine whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence
can reasonably be expected to be obtained in relation to the consolidation process and the financial information of
the components on which to base the group audit opinion. For this purpose, the group engagement team shall obtain
an understanding of the group, its components, and their environments that is sufficient to identify components that
are likely to be significant components. Where component auditors will perform work on the financial information of
such components, the group engagement partner shall evaluate whether the group engagement team will be able to
be involved in the work of those component auditors to the extent necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence. (Ref: Para. A10-A12)
13. If the group engagement partner concludes that:
(a) it will not be possible for the group engagement team to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence due to
restrictions imposed by group management; and
(b) the possible effect of this inability will result in a disclaimer of opinion on the group financial statements,
4
the group engagement partner shall either:
* in the case of a new engagement, not accept the engagement, or, in the case of a continuing engagement,
withdraw from the engagement, where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or regulation; or
* where law or regulation prohibits an auditor from declining an engagement or where withdrawal from an
engagement is not otherwise possible, having performed the audit of the group financial statements to the
extent possible, disclaim an opinion on the group financial statements. (Ref: Para. A13-A19)
DITING
Terms of Engagement
14. The group engagement partner shall agree on the terms of the group audit engagement in accordance with SLAuS
210.
5 (Ref: Para. A20-A21)
Overall Audit Strategy and Audit Plan
15. The group engagement team shall establish an overall group audit strategy and shall develop a group audit plan in
accordance with SLAuS 300.6
16. The group engagement partner shall review the overall group audit strategy and group audit plan. (Ref: Para. A22)
Understanding the Group, Its Components and Their Environments
17. The auditor is required to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement through obtaining an understanding
of the entity and its environment.7 The group engagement team shall:
(a) Enhance its understanding of the group, its components, and their environments, including group-wide controls,
obtained during the acceptance or continuance stage; and
(b) Obtain an understanding of the consolidation process, including the instructions issued by group management
to components. (Ref: Para. A23-A29)
4 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”
5 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements.”
6 SLAuS 300, “Planning an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraphs 7-12.
7 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment.”

<!-- page 393 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
393A
18. The group engagement team shall obtain an understanding that is sufficient to:
(a) Confirm or revise its initial identification of components that are likely to be significant; and
(b) Assess the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. 22
(Ref: Para. A30-A31)
Understanding the Component Auditor
19. If the group engagement team plans to request a component auditor to perform work on the financial information of
a component, the group engagement team shall obtain an understanding of the following: (Ref: Para. A32-A35)
(a) Whether the component auditor understands and will comply with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
the group audit and, in particular, is independent. (Ref: Para. A37)
(b) The component auditor’s professional competence. (Ref: Para. A38)
(c) Whether the group engagement team will be able to be involved in the work of the component auditor to the
extent necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
(d) Whether the component auditor operates in a regulatory environment that actively oversees auditors.
(Ref: Para. A36)
20. If a component auditor does not meet the independence requirements that are relevant to the group audit, or the
group engagement team has serious concerns about the other matters listed in paragraph 19(a)-(c), the group
engagement team shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to the financial information of the component
without requesting that component auditor to perform work on the financial information of that component. (Ref:
Para. A39-A41)
Materiality
21. The group engagement team shall determine the following: (Ref: Para. A42)
(a) Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole when establishing the overall group audit strategy.
(b) If, in the specific circumstances of the group, there are particular classes of transactions, account balances or
disclosures in the group financial statements for which misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the
group financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
users taken on the basis of the group financial statements, the materiality level or levels to be applied to those
particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures.
(c) Component materiality for those components where component auditors will perform an audit or a review for
purposes of the group audit. To reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of
uncorrected and undetected misstatements in the group financial statements exceeds materiality for the group
financial statements as a whole, component materiality shall be lower than materiality for the group financial
statements as a whole. (Ref: Para. A43-A44)
AUDITING
(d) The threshold above which misstatements cannot be regarded as clearly trivial to the group financial statements.
(Ref: Para. A45)
22 SLAuS 315

<!-- page 394 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
394A
9 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks.”
22. Where component auditors will perform an audit for purposes of the group audit, the group engagement team shall
evaluate the appropriateness of performance materiality determined at the component level. (Ref: Para. A46)
23. If a component is subject to audit by statute, regulation or other reason, and the group engagement team decides to
use that audit to provide audit evidence for the group audit, the group engagement team shall determine whether:
(a) materiality for the component financial statements as a whole; and
(b) performance materiality at the component level
meet the requirements of this SLAuS.
Responding to Assessed Risks
24. The auditor is required to design and implement appropriate responses to address the assessed risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements. 9 The group engagement team shall determine the type of work to be
performed by the group engagement team, or the component auditors on its behalf, on the financial information of the
components (see paragraphs 26-29). The group engagement team shall also determine the nature, timing and extent of
its involvement in the work of the component auditors (see paragraphs 30-31).
25. If the nature, timing and extent of the work to be performed on the consolidation process or the financial information
of the components are based on an expectation that group-wide controls are operating effectively, or if substantive
procedures alone cannot provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence at the assertion level, the group engagement
team shall test, or request a component auditor to test, the operating effectiveness of those controls.
Determining the Type of Work to Be Performed on the Financial Information of
Components (Ref: Para. A47)
Significant Components
26. For a component that is significant due to its individual financial significance to the group, the group engagement
team, or a component auditor on its behalf, shall perform an audit of the financial information of the component using
component materiality.
27. For a component that is significant because it is likely to include significant risks of material misstatement of the
group financial statements due to its specific nature or circumstances, the group engagement team, or a component
auditor on its behalf, shall perform one or more of the following:
(a) An audit of the financial information of the component using component materiality.
(b) An audit of one or more account balances, classes of transactions or disclosures relating to the likely significant
risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements. (Ref: Para. A48)
(c) Specified audit procedures relating to the likely significant risks of material misstatement of the group financial
statements. (Ref: Para. A49)
Components that Are Not Significant Components
28. For components that are not significant components, the group engagement team shall perform analytical procedures
at group level. (Ref: Para. A50)

<!-- page 395 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
395A
29. If the group engagement team does not consider that sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the
group audit opinion will be obtained from:
(a) the work performed on the financial information of significant components;
(b) the work performed on group-wide controls and the consolidation process; and
(c) the analytical procedures performed at group level,
the group engagement team shall select components that are not significant components and shall perform, or
request a component auditor to perform, one or more of the following on the financial information of the individual
components selected: (Ref: Para. A51-A53)
* An audit of the financial information of the component using component materiality.
* An audit of one or more account balances, classes of transactions or disclosures.
* A review of the financial information of the component using component materiality.
* Specified procedures.
The group engagement team shall vary the selection of components over a period of time.
UDITING
Involvement in the Work Performed by Component Auditors (Ref: Para. A54-A55)
Significant Components—Risk Assessment
30. If a component auditor performs an audit of the financial information of a significant component, the group engagement
team shall be involved in the component auditor’s risk assessment to identify significant risks of material misstatement
of the group financial statements. The nature, timing and extent of this involvement are affected by the group
engagement team’s understanding of the component auditor, but at a minimum shall include:
(a) Discussing with the component auditor or component management those of the component’s business activities
that are significant to the group;
(b) Discussing with the component auditor the susceptibility of the component to material misstatement of the
financial information due to fraud or error; and
(c) Reviewing the component auditor’s documentation of identified significant risks of material misstatement of
the group financial statements. Such documentation may take the form of a memorandum that reflects the
component auditor’s conclusion with regard to the identified significant risks.
Identified Significant Risks of Material Misstatement of the Group Financial Statements—Further Audit Procedures
31. If significant risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements have been identified in a component on
which a component auditor performs the work, the group engagement team shall evaluate the appropriateness of the
further audit procedures to be performed to respond to the identified significant risks of material misstatement of the
group financial statements. Based on its understanding of the component auditor, the group engagement team shall
determine whether it is necessary to be involved in the further audit procedures.

<!-- page 396 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
396A
Consolidation Process
32. In accordance with paragraph 17, the group engagement team obtains an understanding of group-wide controls and
the consolidation process, including the instructions issued by group management to components. In accordance
with paragraph 25, the group engagement team, or component auditor at the request of the group engagement team,
tests the operating effectiveness of group-wide controls if the nature, timing and extent of the work to be performed
on the consolidation process are based on an expectation that group wide controls are operating effectively, or if
substantive procedures alone cannot provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence at the assertion level.
33. The group engagement team shall design and perform further audit procedures on the consolidation process to
respond to the assessed risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements arising from the consolidation
process. This shall include evaluating whether all components have been included in the group financial statements.
34. The group engagement team shall evaluate the appropriateness, completeness and accuracy of consolidation
adjustments and reclassifications, and shall evaluate whether any fraud risk factors or indicators of possible management
bias exist. (Ref: Para. A56)
35. If the financial information of a component has not been prepared in accordance with the same accounting policies
applied to the group financial statements, the group engagement team shall evaluate whether the financial information
of that component has been appropriately adjusted for purposes of preparing and presenting the group financial
statements.
36. The group engagement team shall determine whether the financial information identified in the component auditor’s
communication (see paragraph 41(c)) is the financial information that is incorporated in the group financial statements.
37. If the group financial statements include the financial statements of a component with a financial reporting period-
end that differs from that of the group, the group engagement team shall evaluate whether appropriate adjustments
have been made to those financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
Subsequent Events
38. Where the group engagement team or component auditors perform audits on the financial information of components,
the group engagement team or the component auditors shall perform procedures designed to identify events at those
components that occur between the dates of the financial information of the components and the date of the auditor’s
report on the group financial statements, and that may require adjustment to or disclosure in the group financial
statements.
39. Where component auditors perform work other than audits of the financial information of components, the group
engagement team shall request the component auditors to notify the group engagement team if they become aware of
subsequent events that may require an adjustment to or disclosure in the group financial statements.
Communication with the Component Auditor
40. The group engagement team shall communicate its requirements to the component auditor on a timely basis. This
communication shall set out the work to be performed, the use to be made of that work, and the form and content of
the component auditor’s communication with the group engagement team. It shall also include the following: (Ref:
Para. A57, A58, A60)
(a) A request that the component auditor, knowing the context in which the group engagement team will use the
work of the component auditor, confirms that the component auditor will cooperate with the group engagement
team. (Ref: Para. A59)
(b) The ethical requirements that are relevant to the group audit and, in particular, the independence requirements.

<!-- page 397 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
397A
(c) In the case of an audit or review of the financial information of the component, component materiality (and, if
applicable, the materiality level or levels for particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures)
and the threshold above which misstatements cannot be regarded as clearly trivial to the group financial
statements.
(d) Identified significant risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements, due to fraud or error, that
are relevant to the work of the component auditor. The group engagement team shall request the component
auditor to communicate on a timely basis any other identified significant risks of material misstatement of the
group financial statements, due to fraud or error, in the component, and the component auditor’s responses to
such risks.
(e) A list of related parties prepared by group management, and any other related parties of which the group
engagement team is aware. The group engagement team shall request the component auditor to communicate
on a timely basis related parties not previously identified by group management or the group engagement team.
The group engagement team shall determine whether to identify such additional related parties to other
component auditors.
41. The group engagement team shall request the component auditor to communicate matters relevant to the group
engagement team’s conclusion with regard to the group audit. Such communication shall include: (Ref: Para. A60)
(a) Whether the component auditor has complied with ethical requirements that are relevant to the group audit,
including independence and professional competence;
(b) Whether the component auditor has complied with the group engagement team’s requirements;
(c) Identification of the financial information of the component on which the component auditor is reporting;
(d) Information on instances of non-compliance with laws or regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement
of the group financial statements;
(e) A list of uncorrected misstatements of the financial information of the component (the list need not include
misstatements that are below the threshold for clearly trivial misstatements communicated by the group
engagement team (see paragraph 40(c));
(f) Indicators of possible management bias;
(g) Description of any identified significant deficiencies in internal control at the component level;
(h) Other significant matters that the component auditor communicated or expects to communicate to those charged
with governance of the component, including fraud or suspected fraud involving component management,
employees who have significant roles in internal control at the component level or others where the fraud
resulted in a material misstatement of the financial information of the component;
(i) Any other matters that may be relevant to the group audit, or that the component auditor wishes to draw to the
attention of the group engagement team, including exceptions noted in the written representations that the
component auditor requested from component management; and
(j) The component auditor’s overall findings, conclusions or opinion.

<!-- page 398 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
398A
Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence Obtained
Evaluating the Component Auditor’ s Communication and Adequacy of their Work
42. The group engagement team shall evaluate the component auditor’s communication (see paragraph 41). The group
engagement team shall:
(a) Discuss significant matters arising from that evaluation with the component auditor, component management
or group management, as appropriate; and
(b) Determine whether it is necessary to review other relevant parts of the component auditor’s audit documentation.
(Ref: Para. A61)
43. If the group engagement team concludes that the work of the component auditor is insufficient, the group engagement
team shall determine what additional procedures are to be performed, and whether they are to be performed by the
component auditor or by the group engagement team.
AUDITING
Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence
44. The auditor is required to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level
and thereby enable the auditor to draw reasonable conclusions on which to base the auditor’s opinion.
10 The group
engagement team shall evaluate whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained from the audit
procedures performed on the consolidation process and the work performed by the group engagement team and the
component auditors on the financial information of the components, on which to base the group audit opinion. (Ref:
Para. A62)
45. The group engagement partner shall evaluate the effect on the group audit opinion of any uncorrected misstatements
(either identified by the group engagement team or communicated by component auditors) and any instances where
there has been an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. (Ref: Para. A63)
Communication with Group Management and Those Charged with Governance of the Group
Communication with Group Management
46. The group engagement team shall determine which identified deficiencies in internal control to communicate to those
charged with governance and group management in accordance with SLAuS 265.
11 In making this determination, the
group engagement team shall consider:
(a) Deficiencies in group-wide internal control that the group engagement team has identified;
b) Deficiencies in internal control that the group engagement team has identified in internal controls at components;
and
(c) Deficiencies in internal control that component auditors have brought to the attention of the group engagement
team.
47. If fraud has been identified by the group engagement team or brought to its attention by a component auditor (see
paragraph 41(h)), or information indicates that a fraud may exist, the group engagement team shall communicate this
on a timely basis to the appropriate level of group management in order to inform those with primary responsibility for
the prevention and detection of fraud of matters relevant to their responsibilities. (Ref. Para. A64)
10 SLAuS 200, paragraph 17.
11 SLAuS 265, “Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and Management.”

<!-- page 399 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
399A
48. A component auditor may be required by statute, regulation or for another reason, to express an audit opinion on the
financial statements of a component. In that case, the group engagement team shall request group management to
inform component management of any matter of which the group engagement team becomes aware that may be
significant to the financial statements of the component, but of which component management may be unaware. If
group management refuses to communicate the matter to component management, the group engagement team shall
discuss the matter with those charged with governance of the group. If the matter remains unresolved, the group
engagement team, subject to legal and professional confidentiality considerations, shall consider whether to advise
the component auditor not to issue the auditor’s report on the financial statements of the component until the matter
is resolved. (Ref: Para. A65).
Communication with Those Charged with Governance of the Group
49. The group engagement team shall communicate the following matters with those charged with governance of the
group, in addition to those required by SLAuS 260
12 and other SLAuSs: (Ref: Para. A66)
(a) An overview of the type of work to be performed on the financial information of the components.
(b) An overview of the nature of the group engagement team’s planned involvement in the work to be performed
by the component auditors on the financial information of significant components.
(c) Instances where the group engagement team’s evaluation of the work of a component auditor gave rise to a
concern about the quality of that auditor’s work.
(d) Any limitations on the group audit, for example, where the group engagement team’s access to information may
have been restricted.
(e) Fraud or suspected fraud involving group management, component management, employees who have significant
roles in group-wide controls or others where the fraud resulted in a material misstatement of the group financial
statements.
Documentation
50. The group engagement team shall include in the audit documentation the following matters:
13
(a) An analysis of components, indicating those that are significant, and the type of work performed on the
financial information of the components.
                                                         AUDITING
(b) The nature, timing and extent of the group engagement team’s involvement in the work performed by the
component auditors on significant components including, where applicable, the group engagement team’s
review of relevant parts of the component auditors’ audit documentation and conclusions thereon.
(c) Written communications between the group engagement team and the component auditors about the group
engagement team’s requirements.
* * *
12 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance.”
13 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.

<!-- page 400 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
400A
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Components Subject to Audit by Statute, Regulation or Other Reason
(Ref: Para. 3)
A1. Factors that may affect the group engagement team’s decision whether to use an audit required by statute, regulation
or for another reason to provide audit evidence for the group audit include the following:
* Differences in the financial reporting framework applied in preparing the financial statements of the component
and that applied in preparing the group financial statements.
* Differences in the auditing and other standards applied by the component auditor and those applied in the
audit of the group financial statements.
* Whether the audit of the financial statements of the component will be completed in time to meet the group
reporting timetable.
Definitions
Component (Ref: Para. 9(a))
A2. The structure of a group affects how components are identified. For example, the group financial reporting system
may be based on an organizational structure that provides for financial information to be prepared by a parent and
one or more subsidiaries, joint ventures, or investees accounted for by the equity or cost methods of accounting; by
a head office and one or more divisions or branches; or by a combination of both. Some groups, however, may
organize their financial reporting system by function, process, product or service (or by groups of products or
services), or geographical locations. In these cases, the entity or business activity for which group or component
management prepares financial information that is included in the group financial statements may be a function,
process, product or service (or group of products or services), or geographical location.
A3. Various levels of components may exist within the group financial reporting system, in which case it may be more
appropriate to identify components at certain levels of aggregation rather than individually.
A4. Components aggregated at a certain level may constitute a component for purposes of the group audit; however,
such a component may also prepare group financial statements that incorporate the financial information of the
components it encompasses (that is, a subgroup). This SLAuS may therefore be applied by different group engagement
partners and teams for different subgroups within a larger group.
Significant Component (Ref: Para. 9(m))
A5. As the individual financial significance of a component increases, the risks of material misstatement of the group
financial statements ordinarily increase. The group engagement team may apply a percentage to a chosen benchmark
as an aid to identify components that are of individual financial significance. Identifying a benchmark and determining
a percentage to be applied to it involve the exercise of professional judgment. Depending on the nature and
circumstances of the group, appropriate benchmarks might include group assets, liabilities, cash flows, profit or
turnover. For example, the group engagement team may consider that components exceeding 15% of the chosen
benchmark are significant components. A higher or lower percentage may, however, be deemed appropriate in the
circumstances.

<!-- page 401 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
401A
A6. The group engagement team may also identify a component as likely to include significant risks of material misstatement
of the group financial statements due to its specific nature or circumstances (that is, risks that require special audit
consideration
14). For example, a component could be responsible for foreign exchange trading and thus expose the
group to a significant risk of material misstatement, even though the component is not otherwise of individual
financial significance to the group.
Component Auditor (Ref: Para. 9(b))
A7. A member of the group engagement team may perform work on the financial information of a component for the group
audit at the request of the group engagement team. Where this is the case, such a member of the engagement team is
also a component auditor.
Responsibility (Ref: Para. 11)
A8. Although component auditors may perform work on the financial information of the components for the group audit
and as such are responsible for their overall findings, conclusions or opinions, the group engagement partner or the
group engagement partner’s firm is responsible for the group audit opinion.
A9. When the group audit opinion is modified because the group engagement team was unable to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence in relation to the financial information of one or more components, the Basis for Modification
paragraph in the auditor’s report on the group financial statements describes the reasons for that inability without
referring to the component auditor, unless such a reference is necessary for an adequate explanation of the
circumstances.
15
Acceptance and Continuance
Obtaining an Understanding at the Acceptance or Continuance Stage (Ref: Para. 12)
A10. In the case of a new engagement, the group engagement team’s understanding of the group, its components, and
their environments may be obtained from:
* Information provided by group management;
* Communication with group management; and
* Where applicable, communication with the previous group engagement team, component management, or
component auditors.
A11. The group engagement team’s understanding may include matters such as the following:
* The group structure, including both the legal and organizational structure (that is, how the group financial
reporting system is organized).
* Components’ business activities that are significant to the group, including the industry and regulatory,
economic and political environments in which those activities take place.
* The use of service organizations, including shared service centers.
* A description of group-wide controls.
14 SLAuS 315, paragraphs 27-29.
15 SLAuS 705, paragraph 20.

<!-- page 402 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
402A
* The complexity of the consolidation process.
* Whether component auditors that are not from the group engagement partner’s firm or network will perform
work on the financial information of any of the components, and group management’s rationale for appointing
more than one auditor.
* Whether the group engagement team:
* Will have unrestricted access to those charged with governance of the group, group management, those
charged with governance of the component, component management, component information, and the
component auditors (including relevant audit documentation sought by the group engagement team);
and
* Will be able to perform necessary work on the financial information of the components.
A12. In the case of a continuing engagement, the group engagement team’s ability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence may be affected by significant changes, for example:
* Changes in the group structure (for example, acquisitions, disposals, reorganizations, or changes in how the
group financial reporting system is organized).
* Changes in components’ business activities that are significant to the group.
* Changes in the composition of those charged with governance of the group, group management, or key
management of significant components.
* Concerns the group engagement team has with regard to the integrity and competence of group or component
management.
* Changes in group-wide controls.
* Changes in the applicable financial reporting framework.
Expectation to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 13)
A13. A group may consist only of components not considered significant components. In these circumstances, the group
engagement partner can reasonably expect to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the group
audit opinion if the group engagement team will be able to:
(a) Perform the work on the financial information of some of these components; and
(b) Be involved in the work performed by component auditors on the financial information of other components to
the extent necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
Access to Information (Ref: Para. 13)
A14. The group engagement team’s access to information may be restricted by circumstances that cannot be overcome by
group management, for example, laws relating to confidentiality and data privacy, or denial by the component auditor
of access to relevant audit documentation sought by the group engagement team. It may also be restricted by group
management.

<!-- page 403 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
403A
16 SLAuS 210, paragraph 8.
A15. Where access to information is restricted by circumstances, the group engagement team may still be able to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence; however, this is less likely as the significance of the component increases. For
example, the group engagement team may not have access to those charged with governance, management, or the
auditor (including relevant audit documentation sought by the group engagement team) of a component that is
accounted for by the equity method of accounting. If the component is not a significant component, and the group
engagement team has a complete set of financial statements of the component, including the auditor’s report thereon,
and has access to information kept by group management in relation to that component, the group engagement team
may conclude that this information constitutes sufficient appropriate audit evidence in relation to that component. If
the component is a significant component, however, the group engagement team will not be able to comply with the
requirements of this SLAuS relevant in the circumstances of the group audit. For example, the group engagement
team will not be able to comply with the requirement in paragraphs 30-31 to be involved in the work of the component
auditor. The group engagement team will not, therefore, be able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence in
relation to that component. The effect of the group engagement team’s inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence is considered in terms of SLAuS 705.
A16. The group engagement team will not be able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence if group management
restricts the access of the group engagement team or a component auditor to the information of a significant component.
A17. Although the group engagement team may be able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence if such restriction
relates to a component considered not a significant component, the reason for the restriction may affect the group
audit opinion. For example, it may affect the reliability of group management’s responses to the group engagement
team’s inquiries and group management’s representations to the group engagement team.
A18. Law or regulation may prohibit the group engagement partner from declining or withdrawing from an engagement. For
example, in some jurisdictions the auditor is appointed for a specified period of time and is prohibited from withdrawing
before the end of that period. Also, in the public sector, the option of declining or withdrawing from an engagement
may not be available to the auditor due to the nature of the mandate or public interest considerations. In these
circumstances, this SLAuS still applies to the group audit, and the effect of the group engagement team’s inability to
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence is considered in terms of SLAuS 705.
A19. Appendix 1 contains an example of an auditor’s report containing a qualified opinion based on the group engagement
team’s inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence in relation to a significant component accounted for by
the equity method of accounting, but where, in the group engagement team’s judgment, the effect is material but not
pervasive.
Terms of Engagement (Ref: Para. 14)
A20. The terms of engagement identify the applicable financial reporting framework.
16 Additional matters may be included
in the terms of a group audit engagement, such as the fact that:
* The communication between the group engagement team and the component auditors should be unrestricted
to the extent possible under law or regulation;
* Important communications between the component auditors, those charged with governance of the component,
and component management, including communications on significant deficiencies in internal control, should
be communicated as well to the group engagement team;
* Important communications between regulatory authorities and components related to financial reporting matters
should be communicated to the group engagement team; and

<!-- page 404 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
404A
17 SLAuS 315, paragraphs A17-A41.
* To the extent the group engagement team considers necessary, it should be permitted:
o Access to component information, those charged with governance of components, component management,
and the component auditors (including relevant audit documentation sought by the group engagement
team); and
o To perform work or request a component auditor to perform work on the financial information of the
components.
A21. Restrictions imposed on:
* the group engagement team’s access to component information, those charged with governance of components,
component management, or the component auditors (including relevant audit documentation sought by the
group engagement team); or
* the work to be performed on the financial information of the components
after the group engagement partner’s acceptance of the group audit engagement, constitute an inability to
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence that may affect the group audit opinion. In exceptional circumstances
it may even lead to withdrawal from the engagement where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or
regulation.
Overall Audit Strategy and Audit Plan (Ref: Para. 16)
A22. The group engagement partner’s review of the overall group audit strategy and group audit plan is an important part
of fulfilling the group engagement partner’s responsibility for the direction of the group audit engagement.
Understanding the Group, Its Components and Their Environments
Matters about Which the Group Engagement Team Obtains an Understanding (Ref: Para. 17)
A23. SLAuS 315 contains guidance on matters the auditor may consider when obtaining an understanding of the industry,
regulatory, and other external factors that affect the entity, including the applicable financial reporting framework; the
nature of the entity; objectives and strategies and related business risks; and measurement and review of the entity’s
financial performance.
17 Appendix 2 of this SLAuS contains guidance on matters specific to a group, including the
consolidation process.
Instructions Issued by Group Management to Components (Ref: Para. 17)
A24. To achieve uniformity and comparability of financial information, group management ordinarily issues instructions to
components. Such instructions specify the requirements for financial information of the components to be included
in the group financial statements and often include financial reporting procedures manuals and a reporting package.
A reporting package ordinarily consists of standard formats for providing financial information for incorporation in
the group financial statements. Reporting packages generally do not, however, take the form of complete financial
statements prepared and presented in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.

<!-- page 405 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
405A
18 SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements.”
A25. The instructions ordinarily cover:
* The accounting policies to be applied;
* Statutory and other disclosure requirements applicable to the group financial statements, including:
* The identification and reporting of segments;
* Related party relationships and transactions;
* Intra-group transactions and unrealized profits;
* Intra-group account balances; and
* A reporting timetable.
A26. The group engagement team’s understanding of the instructions may include the following:
* The clarity and practicality of the instructions for completing the reporting package.
* Whether the instructions:
o Adequately describe the characteristics of the applicable financial reporting framework;
o Provide for disclosures that are sufficient to comply with the requirements of the applicable financial
reporting framework, for example, disclosure of related party relationships and transactions, and segment
information;
o Provide for the identification of consolidation adjustments, for example, intra-group transactions and
unrealized profits, and intra-group account balances; and
o Provide for the approval of the financial information by component management.
Fraud (Ref: Para. 17)
A27. The auditor is required to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to
fraud, and to design and implement appropriate responses to the assessed risks.
18 Information used to identify the
risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements due to fraud may include the following:
* Group management’s assessment of the risks that the group financial statements may be materially misstated as
a result of fraud.
* Group management’s process for identifying and responding to the risks of fraud in the group, including any
specific fraud risks identified by group management, or account balances, classes of transactions, or disclosures
for which a risk of fraud is likely.
* Whether there are particular components for which a risk of fraud is likely.
* How those charged with governance of the group monitor group management’s processes for identifying and
responding to the risks of fraud in the group, and the controls group management has established to mitigate
these risks.

<!-- page 406 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
406A
* Responses of those charged with governance of the group, group management, internal audit (and if considered
appropriate, component management, the component auditors, and others) to the group engagement team’s
inquiry whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected, or alleged fraud affecting a component or the
group.
Discussion among Group Engagement Team Members and Component Auditors
Regarding the Risks of Material Misstatement of the Group Financial Statements, Including Risks of Fraud (Ref: Para. 17)
A28. The key members of the engagement team are required to discuss the susceptibility of an entity to material misstatement
of the financial statements due to fraud or error, specifically emphasizing the risks due to fraud. In a group audit, these
discussions may also include the component auditors.
19 The group engagement partner’s determination of who to
include in the discussions, how and when they occur, and their extent, is affected by factors such as prior experience
with the group.
A29. The discussions provide an opportunity to:
* Share knowledge of the components and their environments, including group-wide controls.
* Exchange information about the business risks of the components or the group.
* Exchange ideas about how and where the group financial statements may be susceptible to material misstatement
due to fraud or error, how group management and component management could perpetrate and conceal
fraudulent financial reporting, and how assets of the components could be misappropriated.
* Identify practices followed by group or component management that may be biased or designed to manage
earnings that could lead to fraudulent financial reporting, for example, revenue recognition practices that do not
comply with the applicable financial reporting framework.
* Consider known external and internal factors affecting the group that may create an incentive or pressure for
group management, component management, or others to commit fraud, provide the opportunity for fraud to be
perpetrated, or indicate a culture or environment that enables group management, component management, or
others to rationalize committing fraud.
* Consider the risk that group or component management may override controls.
* Consider whether uniform accounting policies are used to prepare the financial information of the components
for the group financial statements and, where not, how differences in accounting policies are identified and
adjusted (where required by the applicable financial reporting framework).
* Discuss fraud that has been identified in components, or information that indicates existence of a fraud in a
component.
* Share information that may indicate non-compliance with national laws or regulations, for example, payments of
bribes and improper transfer pricing practices.
Risk Factors (Ref: Para. 18)
A30. Appendix 3 sets out examples of conditions or events that, individually or together, may indicate risks of material
misstatement of the group financial statements, including risks due to fraud.
19 SLAuS 240, paragraph 15; SLAuS 315, paragraph 10.

<!-- page 407 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
407A
Risk Assessment (Ref: Para. 18)
A31. The group engagement team’s assessment at group level of the risks of material misstatement of the group financial
statements is based on information such as the following :
* Information obtained from the understanding of the group, its components, and their environments, and of the
consolidation process, including audit evidence obtained in evaluating the design and implementation of
group-wide controls and controls that are relevant to the consolidation.
* Information obtained from the component auditors.
Understanding the Component Auditor (Ref: Para. 19)
A32. The group engagement team obtains an understanding of a component auditor only when it plans to request the
component auditor to perform work on the financial information of a component for the group audit. For example, it
will not be necessary to obtain an understanding of the auditors of those components for which the group engagement
team plans to perform analytical procedures at group level only.
AUDITING
Group Engagement Team’ s Procedures to Obtain an Understanding of the Component Auditor and Sources of Audit
Evidence (Ref: Para. 19)
A33. The nature, timing and extent of the group engagement team’s procedures to obtain an understanding of the component
auditor are affected by factors such as previous experience with or knowledge of the component auditor, and the
degree to which the group engagement team and the component auditor are subject to common policies and procedures,
for example:
* Whether the group engagement team and a component auditor share:
o Common policies and procedures for performing the work (for example, audit methodologies);
o Common quality control policies and procedures; or
o Common monitoring policies and procedures.
* The consistency or similarity of:
o Laws and regulations or legal system;
o Professional oversight, discipline, and external quality assurance;
o Education and training;
o Professional organizations and standards; or
o Language and culture.
A34. These factors interact and are not mutually exclusive. For example, the extent of the group engagement team’s
procedures to obtain an understanding of Component Auditor A, who consistently applies common quality control
and monitoring policies and procedures and a common audit methodology or operates in the same jurisdiction as the
group engagement partner, may be less than the extent of the group engagement team’s procedures to obtain an
understanding of Component Auditor B, who is not consistently applying common quality control and monitoring
policies and procedures and a common audit methodology or operates in a foreign jurisdiction. The nature of the
procedures performed in relation to Component Auditors A and B may also be different.

<!-- page 408 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
408A
A35. The group engagement team may obtain an understanding of the component auditor in a number of ways. In the first
year of involving a component auditor, the group engagement team may, for example:
* Evaluate the results of the quality control monitoring system where the group engagement team and component
auditor are from a firm or network that operates under and complies with common monitoring policies and
procedures;
20
* Visit the component auditor to discuss the matters in paragraph 19(a)-(c);
* Request the component auditor to confirm the matters referred to in paragraph 19(a)-(c) in writing. Appendix 4
contains an example of written confirmations by a component auditor;
* Request the component auditor to complete questionnaires about the matters in paragraph 19(a)-(c);
* Discuss the component auditor with colleagues in the group engagement partner’s firm, or with a reputable
third party that has knowledge of the component auditor; or
* Obtain confirmations from the professional body or bodies to which the component auditor belongs, the
authorities by which the component auditor is licensed, or other third parties.
In subsequent years, the understanding of the component auditor may be based on the group engagement team’s
previous experience with the component auditor. The group engagement team may request the component auditor to
confirm whether anything in relation to the matters listed in paragraph 19(a)-(c) has changed since the previous year.
A36. Where independent oversight bodies have been established to oversee the auditing profession and monitor the
quality of audits, awareness of the regulatory environment may assist the group engagement team in evaluating the
independence and competence of the component auditor. Information about the regulatory environment may be
obtained from the component auditor or information provided by the independent oversight bodies.
Ethical Requirements that Are Relevant to the Group Audit (Ref: Para. 19(a))
A37. When performing work on the financial information of a component for a group audit, the component auditor is
subject to ethical requirements that are relevant to the group audit. Such requirements may be different or in addition
to those applying to the component auditor when performing a statutory audit in the component auditor’s jurisdiction.
The group engagement team therefore obtains an understanding whether the component auditor understands and
will comply with the ethical requirements that are relevant to the group audit, sufficient to fulfill the component
auditor’s responsibilities in the group audit.
AUDITING
The Component Auditor’ s Professional Competence (Ref: Para. 19(b))
A38. The group engagement team’s understanding of the component auditor’s professional competence may include
whether the component auditor:
* Possesses an understanding of auditing and other standards applicable to the group audit that is sufficient to
fulfill the component auditor’s responsibilities in the group audit;
* Possesses the special skills (for example, industry specific knowledge) necessary to perform the work on the
financial information of the particular component; and
* Where relevant, possesses an understanding of the applicable financial reporting framework that is sufficient
to fulfill the component auditor’s responsibilities in the group audit (instructions issued by group management
to components often describe the characteristics of the applicable financial reporting framework).
20 As required by  SLSQC 1, “Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assuranc e and
Related Services Engagements,” paragraph 54

<!-- page 409 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
409A
Application of the Group Engagement Team’ s Understanding of a Component Auditor (Ref: Para. 20)
A39. The group engagement team cannot overcome the fact that a component auditor is not independent by being
involved in the work of the component auditor or by performing additional risk assessment or further audit procedures
on the financial information of the component.
A40. However, the group engagement team may be able to overcome less than serious concerns about the component
auditor’s professional competency (for example, lack of industry specific knowledge), or the fact that the component
auditor does not operate in an environment that actively oversees auditors, by being involved in the work of the
component auditor or by performing additional risk assessment or further audit procedures on the financial information
of the component.
A41. Where law or regulation prohibits access to relevant parts of the audit documentation of the component auditor, the
group engagement team may request the component auditor to overcome this by preparing a memorandum that
covers the relevant information.
Materiality (Ref: Para. 21-23)
A42. The auditor is required:
21
(a) When establishing the overall audit strategy, to determine:
(i) Materiality for the financial statements as a whole; and
(ii) If, in the specific circumstances of the entity, there are particular classes of transactions, account balances
or disclosures for which misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a
whole could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the
financial statements, the materiality level or levels to be applied to those particular classes of transactions,
account balances or disclosures; and
(b) To determine performance materiality.
In the context of a group audit, materiality is established for both the group financial statements as a whole, and for
the financial information of the components. Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole is used when
establishing the overall group audit strategy.
A43. To reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements
in the group financial statements exceeds materiality for the group financial statements as a whole, component
materiality is set lower than materiality for the group financial statements as a whole. Different component materiality
may be established for different components. Component materiality need not be an arithmetical portion of the
materiality for the group financial statements as a whole and, consequently, the aggregate of component materiality
for the different components may exceed the materiality for the group financial statements as a whole. Component
materiality is used when establishing the overall audit strategy for a component.
A44. Component materiality is determined for those components whose financial information will be audited or reviewed as
part of the group audit in accordance with paragraphs 26, 27(a) and 29. Component materiality is used by the
component auditor to evaluate whether uncorrected detected misstatements are material, individually or in the
aggregate.
21 SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit,” paragraphs 10-11.

<!-- page 410 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
410A
A45. A threshold for misstatements is determined in addition to component materiality. Misstatements identified in the
financial information of the component that are above the threshold for misstatements are communicated to the group
engagement team.
A46.  In the case of an audit of the financial information of a component, the component auditor (or group engagement
team) determines performance materiality at the component level. This is necessary to reduce to an appropriately low
level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements in the financial information of
the component exceeds component materiality. In practice, the group engagement team may set component materiality
at this lower level. Where this is the case, the component auditor uses component materiality for purposes of
assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial information of the component and to design further audit
procedures in response to assessed risks as well as for evaluating whether detected misstatements are material
individually or in the aggregate.
Responding to Assessed Risks
Determining the Type of Work to Be Performed on the Financial Information of Components (Ref: Para. 26-27)
A47. The group engagement team’s determination of the type of work to be performed on the financial information of a
component and its involvement in the work of the component auditor is affected by:
(a) The significance of the component;
(b) The identified significant risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements;
(c) The group engagement team’s evaluation of the design of group-wide controls and determination whether they
have been implemented; and
(d) The group engagement team’s understanding of the component auditor.
The diagram shows how the significance of the component affects the group engagement team’s determination of the
type of work to be performed on the financial information of the component.

<!-- page 411 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
411A
Is the component of
individual financial
significance to the
group? (Para 26)
Audit of the
component’s financial
information*
(Para 26)
Audit of the
component’s financial
information;* or Audit
of one or more account
balances, classes of
transactions or
disclosures relating to
the likely significant
risks; or Specified
audit procedures
relating to the likely
significant risks
(Para 27)
YES
NO
YES
NO
YES
NO
For further selected components:
Audit of the component’s financial information;* or
Audit of one or more accounts balances, classes of
transactions or disclosures; or
Review of the component’s financial information; or
specified procedures (Para 29)
*Performed
 using component
materiality.
Is the planned scope
such that sufficient
appropriate audit
evidence on which to
base the group audit
opinion can be obtained ?
(Para 29)
Communication
with component
auditors
(Para 40)
Analytical procedures performed at
group level for components that are not
significant components (Para 28)
Is the component likely to
include significant risks of
material misstatement of
the group financial
statements due to its
specific nature or
circumstances? (Para 27)

<!-- page 412 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
412A
Significant Components (Ref: Para. 27(b)-(c))
A48. The group engagement team may identify a component as a significant component because that component is likely
to include significant risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements due to its specific nature or
circumstances. In that case, the group engagement team may be able to identify the account balances, classes of
transactions or disclosures affected by the likely significant risks. Where this is the case, the group engagement team
may decide to perform, or request a component auditor to perform, an audit of only those account balances, classes
of transactions or disclosures. For example, in the situation described in paragraph A6, the work on the financial
information of the component may be limited to an audit of the account balances, classes of transactions and
disclosures affected by the foreign exchange trading of that component. Where the group engagement team requests
a component auditor to perform an audit of one or more specific account balances, classes of transactions or
disclosures, the communication of the group engagement team (see paragraph 40) takes account of the fact that many
financial statement items are interrelated.
A49. The group engagement team may design audit procedures that respond to a likely significant risk of material
misstatement of the group financial statements. For example, in the case of a likely significant risk of inventory
obsolescence, the group engagement team may perform, or request a component auditor to perform, specified audit
procedures on the valuation of inventory at a component that holds a large volume of potentially obsolete inventory,
but that is not otherwise significant.
Components that Are Not Significant Components (Ref: Para. 28-29)
A50. Depending on the circumstances of the engagement, the financial information of the components may be aggregated
at various levels for purposes of the analytical procedures. The results of the analytical procedures corroborate the
group engagement team’s conclusions that there are no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated
financial information of components that are not significant components.
A51. The group engagement team’s decision as to how many components to select in accordance with paragraph 29, which
components to select, and the type of work to be performed on the financial information of the individual components
selected may be affected by factors such as the following:
* The extent of audit evidence expected to be obtained on the financial information of the significant components.
* Whether the component has been newly formed or acquired.
* Whether significant changes have taken place in the component.
* Whether internal audit has performed work at the component and any effect of that work on the group audit.
* Whether the components apply common systems and processes.
* The operating effectiveness of group-wide controls.
* Abnormal fluctuations identified by analytical procedures performed at group level.
* The individual financial significance of, or the risk posed by, the component in comparison with other components
within this category.
* Whether the component is subject to audit required by statute, regulation or for another reason.
Including an element of unpredictability in selecting components in this category may increase the likelihood of
identifying material misstatement of the components’ financial information. The selection of components is often
varied on a cyclical basis.

<!-- page 413 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
413A
A52. A review of the financial information of a component may be performed in accordance with Sri Lanka Standard on
Review Engagements (SLSRE) 240022, 23 adapted as necessary in the circumstances. The group engagement team may
also specify additional procedures to supplement this work.
A53. As explained in paragraph A13, a group may consist only of components that are not significant components. In
these circumstances, the group engagement team can obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base
the group audit opinion by determining the type of work to be performed on the financial information of the components
in accordance with paragraph 29. It is unlikely that the group engagement team will obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence on which to base the group audit opinion if the group engagement team, or a component auditor, only tests
group-wide controls and performs analytical procedures on the financial information of the components.
Involvement in the Work Performed by Component Auditors (Ref: Para. 30-31)
A54. Factors that may affect the group engagement team’s involvement in the work of the component auditor include:
(a) The significance of the component;
(b) The identified significant risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements; and
(c) The group engagement team’s understanding of the component auditor.
In the case of a significant component or identified significant risks, the group engagement team performs the
procedures described in paragraphs 30-31. In the case of a component that is not a significant component, the nature,
timing and extent of the group engagement team’s involvement in the work of the component auditor will vary based
on the group engagement team’s understanding of that component auditor. The fact that the component is not a
significant component becomes secondary. For example, even though a component is not considered a significant
component, the group engagement team nevertheless may decide to be involved in the component auditor’s risk
assessment, because it has less than serious concerns about the component auditor’s professional competency (for
example, lack of industry specific knowledge), or the component auditor does not operate in an environment that
actively oversees auditors.
A55. Forms of involvement in the work of a component auditor other than those described in paragraphs 30-31 and 42 may,
based on the group engagement team’s understanding of the component auditor, include one or more of the following:
(a) Meeting with component management or the component auditors to obtain an understanding of the component
and its environment.
(b) Reviewing the component auditors’ overall audit strategy and audit plan.
(c) Performing risk assessment procedures to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement at the component
level. These may be performed with the component auditors, or by the group engagement team.
(d) Designing and performing further audit procedures. These may be designed and performed with the component
auditors, or by the group engagement team.
(e) Participating in the closing and other key meetings between the component auditors and component
management.
(f) Reviewing other relevant parts of the component auditors’ audit documentation.
22 SLSRE 2400, “Engagements to Review Financial Statements.”
23 Not used.

<!-- page 414 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
414A
Consolidation Process
Consolidation Adjustments and Reclassifications (Ref: Para. 34)
A56. The consolidation process may require adjustments to amounts reported in the group financial statements that do not
pass through the usual transaction processing systems, and may not be subject to the same internal controls to
which other financial information is subject. The group engagement team’s evaluation of the appropriateness,
completeness and accuracy of the adjustments may include:
* Evaluating whether significant adjustments appropriately reflect the events and transactions underlying them;
* Determining whether significant adjustments have been correctly calculated, processed and authorized by
group management and, where applicable, by component management;
* Determining whether significant adjustments are properly supported and sufficiently documented; and
* Checking the reconciliation and elimination of intra-group transactions and unrealized profits, and intra-group
account balances.
Communication with the Component Auditor (Ref: Para. 40-41)
A57. If effective two-way communication between the group engagement team and the component auditors does not exist,
there is a risk that the group engagement team may not obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base
the group audit opinion. Clear and timely communication of the group engagement team’s requirements forms the
basis of effective two-way communication between the group engagement team and the component auditor.
A58. The group engagement team’s requirements are often communicated in a letter of instruction. Appendix 5 contains
guidance on required and additional matters that may be included in such a letter of instruction. The component
auditor’s communication with the group engagement team often takes the form of a memorandum or report of work
performed. Communication between the group engagement team and the component auditor, however, may not
necessarily be in writing. For example, the group engagement team may visit the component auditor to discuss
identified significant risks or review relevant parts of the component auditor’s audit documentation. Nevertheless,
the documentation requirements of this and other SLAuSs apply.
A59. In cooperating with the group engagement team, the component auditor, for example, would provide the group
engagement team with access to relevant audit documentation if not prohibited by law or regulation.
A60. Where a member of the group engagement team is also a component auditor, the objective for the group engagement
team to communicate clearly with the component auditor can often be achieved by means other than specific written
communication. For example:
* Access by the component auditor to the overall audit strategy and audit plan may be sufficient to communicate
the group engagement team’s requirements set out in paragraph 40; and
* A review of the component auditor’s audit documentation by the group engagement team may be sufficient to
communicate matters relevant to the group engagement team’s conclusion set out in paragraph 41.

<!-- page 415 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
415A
Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence Obtained
Reviewing the Component Auditor’ s Audit Documentation (Ref: Para. 42(b))
A61. What parts of the audit documentation of the component auditor will be relevant to the group audit may vary
depending on the circumstances. Often the focus is on audit documentation that is relevant to the significant risks of
material misstatement of the group financial statements. The extent of the review may be affected by the fact that the
component auditor’s audit documentation has been subjected to the component auditor’s firm’s review procedures.
Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 44-45)
A62. If the group engagement team concludes that sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the group audit
opinion has not been obtained, the group engagement team may request the component auditor to perform additional
procedures. If this is not feasible, the group engagement team may perform its own procedures on the financial
information of the component.
A63. The group engagement partner’s evaluation of the aggregate effect of any misstatements (either identified by the
group engagement team or communicated by component auditors) allows the group engagement partner to determine
whether the group financial statements as a whole are materially misstated.
Communication with Group Management and Those Charged with Governance of the Group
Communication with Group Management (Ref: Para. 46-48)
A64. SLAuS 240 contains requirements and guidance on communication of fraud to management and, where management
may be involved in the fraud, to those charged with governance.
24
A65. Group management may need to keep certain material sensitive information confidential. Examples of matters that may
be significant to the financial statements of the component of which component management may be unaware include
the following:
* Potential litigation.
* Plans for abandonment of material operating assets.
* Subsequent events.
* Significant legal agreements.
Communication with Those Charged with Governance of the Group (Ref: Para. 49)
A66. The matters the group engagement team communicates to those charged with governance of the group may include
those brought to the attention of the group engagement team by component auditors that the group engagement
team judges to be significant to the responsibilities of those charged with governance of the group. Communication
with those charged with governance of the group takes place at various times during the group audit. For example, the
matters referred to in paragraph 49(a)-(b) may be communicated after the group engagement team has determined the
work to be performed on the financial information of the components. On the other hand, the matter referred to in
paragraph 49(c) may be communicated at the end of the audit, and the matters referred to in paragraph 49(d)-(e) may
be communicated when they occur.
AU
24 SLAuS 240, paragraphs 40-42.

<!-- page 416 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
416A
Example of a Qualified Opinion Where the Group Engagement Team Is Not Able to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit
Evidence on Which to Base the Group Audit Opinion
In this example, the group engagement team is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to a
significant component accounted for by the equity method (recognized at Rs 15 million in the balance sheet, which reflects
total assets of Rs 60 million) because the group engagement team did not have access to the accounting records, management,
or auditor of the component.
The group engagement team has read the audited financial statements of the component as of December 31, 20X1,
including the auditor’s report thereon, and considered related financial information kept by group management in relation to
the component.
In the group engagement partner’s judgment, the effect on the group financial statements of this inability to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence is material but not pervasive.
INDEPENDENT   AUDITOR’S   REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
25
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and its subsidiaries, which
comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 20X1, and the consolidated income statement, statement of
changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and
other explanatory information.
Management’ s
26 Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,27 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to
enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We
conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
statements are free from material misstatement.
25 The sub-title, “Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title, “Re port
on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
26 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
27 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read
“Management is responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordanc e with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and for such ...”
Appendix 1
(Ref: Para. A19)

<!-- page 417 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
417A
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of
the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
28 of the
consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
29 An audit also includes evaluating
the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
qualified audit opinion.
Basis for Qualified Opinion
ABC Company’s investment in XYZ Company, a foreign associate acquired during the year and accounted for by
the equity method, is carried at Rs 15 million on the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 20X1, and ABC’s share of
XYZ’s net income of Rs 1 million is included in the consolidated income statement for the year then ended. We were unable
to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the carrying amount of ABC’s investment in XYZ as at December 31,
20X1 and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net income for the year because we were denied access to the financial information,
management, and the auditors of XYZ. Consequently, we were unable to determine whether any adjustments to these
amounts were necessary.
Qualified Opinion
In our opinion, except for the possible effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph,
the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair view of ) the financial
position of ABC Company and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) their financial performance and cash flows
for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other
reporting responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
If, in the group engagement partner’s judgment, the effect on the group financial statements of the inability to
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence is material and pervasive, the group engagement partner would disclaim an
opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705.
28 In the case of footnote 27, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entity’s preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures th at are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s interna l
control.”
29 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the consolidated financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assess ments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial sta tements in
order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 27, this may read: “In mak ing those
risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of consolidated financial stateme nts that
give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 418 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
418A
Appendix 2
(Ref: Para. A23)
Examples of Matters about Which the Group Engagement Team Obtains an Understanding
The examples provided cover a broad range of matters; however, not all matters are relevant to every group audit
engagement and the list of examples is not necessarily complete.
Group-Wide Controls
1. Group-wide controls may include a combination of the following:
* Regular meetings between group and component management to discuss business developments and to
review performance.
* Monitoring of components’ operations and their financial results, including regular reporting routines, which
enables group management to monitor components’ performance against budgets, and to take appropriate
action.
* Group management’s risk assessment process, that is, the process for identifying, analyzing and managing
business risks, including the risk of fraud, that may result in material misstatement of the group financial
statements.
* Monitoring, controlling, reconciling, and eliminating intra-group transactions and unrealized profits, and intra-
group account balances at group level.
* A process for monitoring the timeliness and assessing the accuracy and completeness of financial information
received from components.
* A central IT system controlled by the same general IT controls for all or part of the group.
* Control activities within an IT system that is common for all or some components.
* Monitoring of controls, including activities of internal audit and self- assessment programs.
* Consistent policies and procedures, including a group financial reporting procedures manual.
* Group-wide programs, such as codes of conduct and fraud prevention programs.
* Arrangements for assigning authority and responsibility to component management.
2. Internal audit may be regarded as part of group-wide controls, for example, when the internal audit function is
centralized. SLAuS 610
30 deals with the group engagement team’s evaluation of the competence and objectivity of the
internal auditors where it plans to use their work.
Consolidation Process
3. The group engagement team’s understanding of the consolidation process may include matters such as the
following:
30 SLAuS 610, “Using the Work of Internal Auditors,” paragraph 9.

<!-- page 419 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
419A
Matters relating to the applicable financial reporting framework:
* The extent to which component management has an understanding of the applicable financial reporting
framework.
* The process for identifying and accounting for components in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework.
* The process for identifying reportable segments for segment reporting in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting framework.
* The process for identifying related party relationships and related party transactions for reporting in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework.
* The accounting policies applied to the group financial statements, changes from those of the previous financial
year, and changes resulting from new or revised standards under the applicable financial reporting framework.
* The procedures for dealing with components with financial year-ends different from the group’s year-end.
Matters relating to the consolidation process:
* Group management’s process for obtaining an understanding of the accounting policies used by components,
and, where applicable, ensuring that uniform accounting policies are used to prepare the financial information
of the components for the group financial statements, and that differences in accounting policies are identified,
and adjusted where required in terms of the applicable financial reporting framework. Uniform accounting
policies are the specific principles, bases, conventions, rules, and practices adopted by the group, based on the
applicable financial reporting framework, that the components use to report similar transactions consistently.
These policies are ordinarily described in the financial reporting procedures manual and reporting package
issued by group management.
* Group management’s process for ensuring complete, accurate and timely financial reporting by the components
for the consolidation.
* The process for translating the financial information of foreign components into the currency of the group
financial statements.
* How IT is organized for the consolidation, including the manual and automated stages of the process, and the
manual and programmed controls in place at various stages of the consolidation process.
* Group management’s process for obtaining information on subsequent events.
Matters relating to consolidation adjustments:
* The process for recording consolidation adjustments, including the preparation, authorization and processing
of related journal entries, and the experience of personnel responsible for the consolidation.
* The consolidation adjustments required by the applicable financial reporting framework.
* Business rationale for the events and transactions that gave rise to the consolidation adjustments.
* Frequency, nature and size of transactions between components.

<!-- page 420 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
420A
* Procedures for monitoring, controlling, reconciling and eliminating intra-group transactions and unrealized
profits, and intra-group account balances.
* Steps taken to arrive at the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, procedures for amortizing goodwill
(where applicable), and impairment testing of goodwill, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework.
* Arrangements with a majority owner or minority interests regarding losses incurred by a component (for
example, an obligation of the minority interest to make good such losses).
AUDITING
Appendix 3
(Ref: Para. A30)
Examples of Conditions or Events that May Indicate Risks of
Material Misstatement of the Group Financial Statements
The examples provided cover a broad range of conditions or events; however, not all conditions or events are
relevant to every group audit engagement and the list of examples is not necessarily complete.
* A complex group structure, especially where there are frequent acquisitions, disposals or reorganizations.
* Poor corporate governance structures, including decision-making processes, that are not transparent.
* Non-existent or ineffective group-wide controls, including inadequate group management information on
monitoring of components’ operations and their results.
* Components operating in foreign jurisdictions that may be exposed to factors such as unusual government
intervention in areas such as trade and fiscal policy, and restrictions on currency and dividend movements; and
fluctuations in exchange rates.
* Business activities of components that involve high risk, such as long term contracts or trading in innovative
or complex financial instruments.
* Uncertainties regarding which components’ financial information require incorporation in the group financial
statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework, for example, whether any special-
purpose entities or non-trading entities exist and require incorporation.
* Unusual related party relationships and transactions.
* Prior occurrences of intra-group account balances that did not balance or reconcile on consolidation.
* The existence of complex transactions that are accounted for in more than one component.
* Components’ application of accounting policies that differ from those applied to the group financial statements.
* Components with different financial year-ends, which may be utilized to manipulate the timing of transactions.
* Prior occurrences of unauthorized or incomplete consolidation adjustments.
* Aggressive tax planning within the group, or large cash transactions with entities in tax havens.
* Frequent changes of auditors engaged to audit the financial statements of components.
AUDITIN

<!-- page 421 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
421A
Appendix 4
(Ref: Para. A35)
Examples of a Component Auditor’s Confirmations
The following is not intended to be a standard letter. Confirmations may vary from one component auditor to
another and from one period to the next.
Confirmations often are obtained before work on the financial information of the component commences.
[Component Auditor Letterhead]
[Date]
[To Group Engagement Partner]
This letter is provided in connection with your audit of the group financial statements of [name of parent] for the
year ended [date] for the purpose of expressing an opinion on whether the group financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects (give a true and fair view of) the financial position of the group as of [date] and of its financial performance
and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with [indicate applicable financial reporting framework].
We acknowledge receipt of your instructions dated [date], requesting us to perform the specified work on the
financial information of [name of component] for the year ended [date].
We confirm that:
1. We will be able to comply with the instructions. / We advise you that we will not be able to comply with the
following instructions [specify instructions] for the following reasons [specify reasons].
2. The instructions are clear and we understand them. / We would appreciate it if you could clarify the following
instructions [specify instructions].
3. We will cooperate with you and provide you with access to relevant audit documentation.
We acknowledge that:
1. The financial information of [name of component] will be included in the group financial statements of [name of
parent].
2. You may consider it necessary to be involved in the work you have requested us to perform on the financial
information of [name of component] for the year ended [date].
3. You intend to evaluate and, if considered appropriate, use our work for the audit of the group financial statements
of [name of parent].
In connection with the work that we will perform on the financial information of [name of component], a [describe
component, for example, wholly-owned subsidiary, subsidiary, joint venture, investee accounted for by the equity or cost
methods of accounting] of [name of parent], we confirm the following :
1. We have an understanding of [indicate relevant ethical requirements] that is sufficient to fulfill our responsibilities
in the audit of the group financial statements, and will comply therewith. In particular, and with respect to [name
of parent] and the other components in the group, we are independent within the meaning of [indicate relevant
ethical requirements] and comply with the applicable requirements of [refer to rules] promulgated by [name of
regulatory agency].

<!-- page 422 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
422A
2. We have an understanding of Sri Lanka Auditing Standards and [indicate other national standards applicable
to the audit of the group financial statements] that is sufficient to fulfill our responsibilities in the audit of the
group financial statements and will conduct our work on the financial information of [name of component] for
the year ended [date] in accordance with those standards.
3. We possess the special skills (for example, industry specific knowledge) necessary to perform the work on the
financial information of the particular component.
4. We have an understanding of [indicate applicable financial reporting framework or group financial reporting
procedures manual] that is sufficient to fulfill our responsibilities in the audit of the group financial statements.
We will inform you of any changes in the above representations during the course of our work on the financial
information of [name of component].
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date]
[Auditor’s address]
Appendix 5
(Ref: Para. A58)
Required and Additional Matters Included in the Group
Engagement Team’s Letter of Instruction
Matters required by this SLAuS to be communicated to the component auditor are shown in italicized text.
Matters that are relevant to the planning of the work of the component auditor:
* A request for the component auditor, knowing the context in which the group engagement team will use the
work of the component auditor, to confirm that the component auditor will cooperate with the group
engagement team .
* The timetable for completing the audit.
* Dates of planned visits by group management and the group engagement team, and dates of planned meetings
with component management and the component auditor.
* A list of key contacts.
* The work to be performed by the component auditor, the use to be made of that work , and arrangements for
coordinating efforts at the initial stage of and during the audit, including the group engagement team’s planned
involvement in the work of the component auditor.
* The ethical requirements that are relevant to the group audit and, in particular, the independence
requirements.
* In the case of an audit or review of the financial information of the component ,component materiality (and,
if applicable, the materiality level or levels for particular classes of transactions, account balances or
disclosures), and the threshold above which misstatements cannot be regarded as clearly trivial to the group
financial statements.

<!-- page 423 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
423A
* A list of related parties prepared by group management, and any other related parties that the group
engagement team is aware of, and a request that the component auditor communicates on a timely basis to
the group engagement team related parties not previously identified by group management or the group
engagement team.
* Work to be performed on intra-group transactions and unrealized profits and intra-group account balances.
* Guidance on other statutory reporting responsibilities, for example, reporting on group management’s assertion
on the effectiveness of internal control.
* Where time lag between completion of the work on the financial information of the components and the group
engagement team’s conclusion on the group financial statements is likely, specific instructions for a subsequent
events review.
Matters that are relevant to the conduct of the work of the component auditor :
* The findings of the group engagement team’s tests of control activities of a processing system that is common
for all or some components, and tests of controls to be performed by the component auditor.
* Identified significant risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements, due to fraud or error,
that are relevant to the work of the component auditor, and a request that the component auditor communicates
on a timely basis any other significant risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements, due
to fraud or error, identified in the component and the component auditor’ s response to such risks.
* The findings of internal audit, based on work performed on controls at or relevant to components.
* A request for timely communication of audit evidence obtained from performing work on the financial information
of the components that contradicts the audit evidence on which the group engagement team originally based
the risk assessment performed at group level.
* A request for a written representation on component management’s compliance with the applicable financial
reporting framework, or a statement that differences between the accounting policies applied to the financial
information of the component and those applied to the group financial statements have been disclosed.
* Matters to be documented by the component auditor.
Other information :
* A request that the following be reported to the group engagement team on a timely basis:
o Significant accounting, financial reporting and auditing matters, including accounting estimates and related
judgments.
o Matters relating to the going concern status of the component.
o Matters relating to litigation and claims.
o Significant deficiencies in internal control that the component auditor has identified during the performance
of the work on the financial information of the component, and information that indicates the existence of
fraud.
* A request that the group engagement team be notified of any significant or unusual events as early as possible.
·AUDITING
* A request that the matters listed in paragraph 41 be communicated to the group engagement team when the
work on the financial information of the component is completed.

<!-- page 424 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
424A
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  610
USING  THE  WORK  OF  INTERNA L AUDITORS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................ 1 - 2
Relationship between the Internal Audit Function and the External
Auditor  ........................................................................................... 3 -  4
Effective Date....................................................................................... 5
Objectives ............................................................................................ 6
Definitions ........................................................................................... 7
Requirements
Determining Whether and to What Extent to Use the Work of the
Internal Auditors  ......................................................................... 8 - 10
Using Specific Work of the Internal Auditors ..................................... 11 - 12
Documentation ..................................................................................... 13
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Scope of this SLAuS ........................................................................... A1 - A2
Objectives of the Internal Audit Function ........................................... A3
Determining Whether and to What Extent to Use the Work of
the Internal Auditors ….............................................................. A4 - A5
Using Specific Work of the Internal Auditors.....................................  A6
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 610, “Using the Work of Internal Auditors” should be
read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and
the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the external auditor’s responsibilities relating to the work of
internal auditors when the external auditor has determined, in accordance with SLAuS 315,
1 that the internal audit
function is likely to be relevant to the audit. (Ref: Para. A1-A2)
2. This SLAuS does not deal with instances when individual internal auditors provide direct assistance to the external
auditor in carrying out audit procedures.
1 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment,”
paragraph 23.

<!-- page 425 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
425A
Relationship between the Internal Audit Function and the External Auditor
3. The objectives of the internal audit function are determined by management and, where applicable, those charged
with governance. While the objectives of the internal audit function and the external auditor are different, some of the
ways in which the internal audit function and the external auditor achieve their respective objectives may be similar.
(Ref: Para. A3)
4. Irrespective of the degree of autonomy and objectivity of the internal audit function, such function is not independent
of the entity as is required of the external auditor when expressing an opinion on financial statements. The external
auditor has sole responsibility for the audit opinion expressed, and that responsibility is not reduced by the external
auditor’s use of the work of the internal auditors.
Effective Date
5. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
6. The objectives of the external auditor, where the entity has an internal audit function that the external auditor has
determined is likely to be relevant to the audit, are :
(a) To determine whether, and to what extent, to use specific work of the internal auditors ; and
(b) If using the specific work of the internal auditors, to determine whether that work is adequate for the purposes
of the audit.
Definitions
7. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below :
(a) Internal audit function – An appraisal activity established or provided as a service to the entity. Its functions
include, amongst other things, examining, evaluating and monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of internal
control ;
(b) Internal auditors – Those individuals who perform the activities of the internal audit function. Internal auditors
may belong to an internal audit department or equivalent function.
Requirements
Determining Whether and to What Extent to Use the Work of the Internal Auditors
8. The external auditor shall determine :
(a) Whether the work of the internal auditors is likely to be adequate for purposes of the audit ; and
(b) If so, the planned effect of the work of the internal auditors on the nature, timing or extent of the external
auditor’s procedures.
9. In determining whether the work of the internal auditors is likely to be adequate for purposes of the audit, the external
auditor shall evaluate  :
(a) The objectivity of the internal audit function ;
(b) The technical competence of the internal auditors ;

<!-- page 426 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
426A
(c) Whether the work of the internal auditors is likely to be carried out with due professional care ; and
(d) Whether there is likely to be effective communication between the internal auditors and the external auditor.
(Ref: Para. A4)
10. In determining the planned effect of the work of the internal auditors on the nature, timing or extent of the external
auditor’s procedures, the external auditor shall consider:
(a) The nature and scope of specific work performed, or to be performed, by the internal auditors ;
(b) The assessed risks of material misstatement at the assertion level for particular classes of transactions, account
balances, and disclosures ; and
(c) The degree of subjectivity involved in the evaluation of the audit evidence gathered by the internal auditors in
support of the relevant assertions. (Ref: Para. A5)
UDITING
Using Specific Work of the Internal Auditors
11. In order for the external auditor to use specific work of the internal auditors, the external auditor shall evaluate and
perform audit procedures on that work to determine its adequacy for the external auditor’s purposes. (Ref: Para. A6)
12. To determine the adequacy of specific work performed by the internal auditors for the external auditor’s purposes, the
external auditor shall evaluate whether :
(a) The work was performed by internal auditors having adequate technical training and proficiency ;
(b) The work was properly supervised, reviewed and documented ;
(c) Adequate audit evidence has been obtained to enable the internal auditors to draw reasonable
conclusions ;
(d) Conclusions reached are appropriate in the circumstances and any reports prepared by the internal auditors are
consistent with the results of the work performed ; and
(e) Any exceptions or unusual matters disclosed by the internal auditors are properly resolved.
Documentation
13. If the external auditor uses specific work of the internal auditors, the external auditor shall include in the audit
documentation the conclusions reached regarding the evaluation of the adequacy of the work of the internal auditors,
and the audit procedures performed by the external auditor on that work, in accordance with paragraph 11.
2
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Scope of this SLAuS (Ref: Para. 1)
A1. As described in SLAuS 315, 3 the entity’s internal audit function is likely to be relevant to the audit if the nature of the
internal audit function’s responsibilities and activities are related to the entity’s financial reporting, and the auditor
expects to use the work of the internal auditors to modify the nature or timing, or reduce the extent, of audit procedures
to be performed.
***
2 SLAuS 230, “Audit Documentation,” paragraphs 8-11, and paragraph A6.
3 SLAuS 315, paragraph A101.

<!-- page 427 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
427A
A2. Carrying out procedures in accordance with this SLAuS may cause the external auditor to re-evaluate the external
auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement. Consequently, this may affect the external auditor’s
determination of the relevance of the internal audit function to the audit. Similarly, the external auditor may decide not
to otherwise use the work of the internal auditors to affect the nature, timing or extent of the external auditor’s
procedures. In such circumstances, the external auditor’s further application of this SLAuS may not be necessary.
Objectives of the Internal Audit Function (Ref: Para. 3)
A3. The objectives of internal audit functions vary widely and depend on the size and structure of the entity and the
requirements of management and, where applicable, those charged with governance. The activities of the internal
audit function may include one or more of the following:
* Monitoring of internal control. The internal audit function may be assigned specific responsibility for reviewing
controls, monitoring their operation and recommending improvements thereto.
* Examination of financial and operating information. The internal audit function may be assigned to review the
means used to identify, measure, classify and report financial and operating information, and to make specific
inquiry into individual items, including detailed testing of transactions, balances and procedures.
* Review of operating activities. The internal audit function may be assigned to review the economy, efficiency
and effectiveness of operating activities, including non-financial activities of an entity.
* Review of compliance with laws and regulations. The internal audit function may be assigned to review
compliance with laws, regulations and other external requirements, and with management policies and directives
and other internal requirements.
* Risk management. The internal audit function may assist the organization by identifying and evaluating significant
exposures to risk and contributing to the improvement of risk management and control systems.
* Governance. The internal audit function may assess the governance process in its accomplishment of objectives
on ethics and values, performance management and accountability, communicating risk and control information
to appropriate areas of the organization and effectiveness of communication among those charged with
governance, external and internal auditors, and management.
UDITING
Determining Whether and to What Extent to Use the Work of the Internal Auditors
Whether the Work of the Internal Auditors Is Likely to Be Adequate for Purposes of the Audit  (Ref: Para. 9)
A4. Factors that may affect the external auditor’s determination of whether the work of the internal auditors is likely to be
adequate for the purposes of the audit include :
Objectivity
* The status of the internal audit function within the entity and the effect such status has on the ability of the
internal auditors to be objective.
* Whether the internal audit function reports to those charged with governance or an officer with appropriate
authority, and whether the internal auditors have direct access to those charged with governance.
* Whether the internal auditors are free of any conflicting responsibilities.
* Whether those charged with governance oversee employment decisions related to the internal audit function.
* Whether there are any constraints or restrictions placed on the internal audit function by management or those
charged with governance.
* Whether, and to what extent, management acts on the recommendations of the internal audit function, and how
such action is evidenced.

<!-- page 428 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
428A
Technical competence
* Whether the internal auditors are members of relevant professional bodies.
* Whether the internal auditors have adequate technical training and proficiency as internal auditors.
* Whether there are established policies for hiring and training internal auditors.
Due professional care
* Whether activities of the internal audit function are properly planned, supervised, reviewed and documented.
* The existence and adequacy of audit manuals or other similar documents, work programs and internal audit
documentation.
Communication
Communication between the external auditor and the internal auditors may be most effective when the internal
auditors are free to communicate openly with the external auditors, and :
* Meetings are held at appropriate intervals throughout the period ;
* The external auditor is advised of and has access to relevant internal audit reports and is informed of any
significant matters that come to the attention of the internal auditors when such matters may affect the work of
the external auditor ; and
* The external auditor informs the internal auditors of any significant matters that may affect the internal audit
function.
Planned Effect of the Work of the Internal Auditors on the Nature, Timing or Extent of the External Auditor’ s Procedures
(Ref: Para. 10)
A5. Where the work of the internal auditors is to be a factor in determining the nature, timing or extent of the external
auditor’s procedures, it may be useful to agree in advance the following matters with the internal auditors:
* The timing of such work;
* The extent of audit coverage;
* Materiality for the financial statements as a whole (and, if applicable, materiality level or levels for particular
classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures), and performance materiality;
* Proposed methods of item selection;
* Documentation of the work performed; and
* Review and reporting procedures.
Using Specific Work of the Internal Auditors (Ref: Para. 11)
A6. The nature, timing and extent of the audit procedures performed on specific work of the internal auditors will depend
on the external auditor’s assessment of the risk of material misstatement, the evaluation of the internal audit function,
and the evaluation of the specific work of the internal auditors. Such audit procedures may include:
* Examination of items already examined by the internal auditors;
* Examination of other similar items; and
* Observation of procedures performed by the internal auditors.

<!-- page 429 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
429A
AUDITINGSRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  620
USING  THE  WORK  OF  AN  AUDITOR’S  EXPERT
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................. 1-2
The Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit Opinion …........................ 3
Effective Date  ....................................................................................... 4
Objectives  ............................................................................................ 5
Definitions  ........................................................................................... 6
Requirements
Determining the Need for an Auditor’s Expert.................................... 7
Nature, Timing and Extent of Audit Procedures  .................................. 8
The Competence, Capabilities and Objectivity of the
Auditor’s Expert …..................................................................... 9
Obtaining an Understanding of the Field of Expertise of the
Auditor’s Expert  ......................................................................... 10
Agreement with the Auditor’s Expert  .................................................. 11
Evaluating the Adequacy of the Auditor’s Expert’s Work .................. 12-13
Reference to the Auditor’s Expert in the Auditor’s Report ….............. 14-15
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Definition of an Auditor’s Expert  ......................................................... A1-A3
Determining the Need for an Auditor’s Expert  .................................... A4-A9
Nature, Timing and Extent of Audit Procedures  .................................. A10-A13
The Competence, Capabilities and Objectivity of the
Auditor’s Expert  ......................................................................... A14-A20
Obtaining an Understanding of the Field of Expertise of the
Auditor’s Expert  ......................................................................... A21-A22
Agreement with the Auditor’s Expert  .................................................. A23-A31
Evaluating the Adequacy of the Auditor’s Expert’s Work.................. A32-A40
Reference to the Auditor’s Expert in the Auditor’s Report.................. A41-A42
Appendix: Considerations for Agreement between the Auditor and an
Auditor’s External Expert
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 620, “Using the Work of an Auditor’s Expert” should be
read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s  responsibilities relating to the work of an
individual or organization in a field of expertise other than accounting or auditing, when that work is used to assist the
auditor in obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence.

<!-- page 430 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
430A
2. This SLAuS does not deal with :
(a) Situations where the engagement team includes a member, or consults an individual or organization, with
expertise in a specialized area of accounting or auditing, which are dealt with in SLAuS 220 ;1 or
(b) The auditor’s use of the work of an individual or organization possessing expertise in a field other than
accounting or auditing, whose work in that field is used by the entity to assist the entity in preparing the
financial statements (a management’s expert), which is dealt with in SLAuS 500.
2
The Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit Opinion
3. The auditor has sole responsibility for the audit opinion expressed, and that responsibility is not reduced by the
auditor’s use of the work of an auditor’s expert. Nonetheless, if the auditor using the work of an auditor’s expert,
having followed this SLAuS, concludes that the work of that expert is adequate for the auditor’s purposes, the auditor
may accept that expert’s findings or conclusions in the expert’s field as appropriate audit evidence.
Effective Date
4. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
5. The objectives of the auditor are :
(a) To determine whether to use the work of an auditor’s expert; and
(b) If using the work of an auditor’s expert, to determine whether that work is adequate for the auditor’s purposes.
Definitions
6. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Auditor’s expert – An individual or organization possessing expertise in a field other than accounting or
auditing, whose work in that field is used by the auditor to assist the auditor in obtaining sufficient appropriate
audit evidence. An auditor’s expert may be either an auditor’s internal expert (who is a partner
3 or staff,
including temporary staff, of the auditor’s firm or a network firm), or an auditor’s external expert. (Ref: Para.
A1-A3) ;
(b) Expertise – Skills, knowledge and experience in a particular field ;
(c) Management’s expert – An individual or organization possessing expertise in a field other than accounting or
auditing, whose work in that field is used by the entity to assist the entity in preparing the financial statements.
Requirements
Determining the Need for an Auditor’s Expert
7. If expertise in a field other than accounting or auditing is necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence,
the auditor shall determine whether to use the work of an auditor’s expert. (Ref: Para. A4-A9)
1 SLAuS 220, “Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraphs A10, A20-A22.
2 SLAuS 500, “Audit Evidence,” paragraphs A34-A48.
3 “Partner” and “firm” should be read as referring to their public sector equivalents where relevant.

<!-- page 431 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
431A
Nature, Timing and Extent of Audit Procedures
8. The nature, timing and extent of the auditor’s procedures with respect to the requirements in paragraphs 9-13 of this
SLAuS will vary depending on the circumstances. In determining the nature, timing and extent of those procedures,
the auditor shall consider matters including : (Ref: Para. A10)
(a) The nature of the matter to which that expert’s work relates ;
(b) The risks of material misstatement in the matter to which that expert’s work relates ;
(c) The significance of that expert’s work in the context of the audit ;
(d) The auditor’s knowledge of and experience with previous work performed by that expert ; and
(e) Whether that expert is subject to the auditor’s firm’s quality control policies and procedures. (Ref: Para.
A11-A13)
AUDITING
The Competence, Capabilities and Objectivity of the Auditor’s Expert
9. The auditor shall evaluate whether the auditor’s expert has the necessary competence, capabilities and objectivity for
the auditor’s purposes. In the case of an auditor’s external expert, the evaluation of objectivity shall include inquiry
regarding interests and relationships that may create a threat to that expert’s objectivity. (Ref: Para. A14-A20)
Obtaining an Understanding of the Field of Expertise of the Auditor’s Expert
10. The auditor shall obtain a sufficient understanding of the field of expertise of the auditor’s expert to enable the auditor
to : (Ref: Para. A21-A22)
(a) Determine the nature, scope and objectives of that expert’s work for the auditor’s purposes ; and
(b) Evaluate the adequacy of that work for the auditor’s purposes.
Agreement with the Auditor’s Expert
11. The auditor shall agree, in writing when appropriate, on the following matters with the auditor’s expert : (Ref: Para.
A23-A26)
(a) The nature, scope and objectives of that expert’s work ; (Ref: Para. A27)
(b) The respective roles and responsibilities of the auditor and that expert ; (Ref: Para. A28-A29)
(c) The nature, timing and extent of communication between the auditor and that expert, including the form of any
report to be provided by that expert ; and (Ref: Para. A30)
(d) The need for the auditor’s expert to observe confidentiality requirements. (Ref: Para. A31)
Evaluating the Adequacy of the Auditor’s Expert’s Work
12. The auditor shall evaluate the adequacy of the auditor’s expert’s work for the auditor’s purposes, including: (Ref:
Para. A32)
(a) The relevance and reasonableness of that expert’s findings or conclusions, and their consistency with other
audit evidence; (Ref: Para. A33-A34)
(b) If that expert’s work involves use of significant assumptions and methods, the relevance and reasonableness
of those assumptions and methods in the circumstances; and (Ref: Para. A35-A37)
(c) If that expert’s work involves the use of source data that is significant to that expert’s work, the relevance,
completeness, and accuracy of that source data. (Ref: Para. A38-A39)

<!-- page 432 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
432A
13. If the auditor determines that the work of the auditor’s expert is not adequate for the auditor’s purposes, the auditor
shall: (Ref: Para. A40)
(a) Agree with that expert on the nature and extent of further work to be performed by that expert; or
(b) Perform additional audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances.
Reference to the Auditor’s Expert in the Auditor’s Report
14. The auditor shall not refer to the work of an auditor’s expert in an auditor’s report containing an unmodified opinion
unless required by law or regulation to do so. If such reference is required by law or regulation, the auditor shall
indicate in the auditor’s report that the reference does not reduce the auditor’s responsibility for the auditor’s
opinion. (Ref: Para. A41)
15. If the auditor makes reference to the work of an auditor’s expert in the auditor’s report because such reference is
relevant to an understanding of a modification to the auditor’s opinion, the auditor shall indicate in the auditor’s
report that such reference does not reduce the auditor’s responsibility for that opinion. (Ref: Para. A42)
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Definition of an Auditor’s Expert (Ref: Para. 6(a))
A1. Expertise in a field other than accounting or auditing may include expertise in relation to such matters as :
* The valuation of complex financial instruments, land and buildings, plant and machinery, jewelry, works of art,
antiques, intangible assets, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations and assets that
may have been impaired.
* The actuarial calculation of liabilities associated with insurance contracts or employee benefit plans.
* The estimation of oil and gas reserves.
* The valuation of environmental liabilities, and site clean-up costs.
* The interpretation of contracts, laws and regulations.
* The analysis of complex or unusual tax compliance issues.
A2. In many cases, distinguishing between expertise in accounting or auditing, and expertise in another field, will be
straightforward, even where this involves a specialized area of accounting or auditing. For example, an individual with
expertise in applying methods of accounting for deferred income tax can often be easily distinguished from an expert
in taxation law. The former is not an expert for the purposes of this SLAuS as this constitutes accounting expertise;
the latter is an expert for the purposes of this SLAuS as this constitutes legal expertise. Similar distinctions may also
be able to be made in other areas, for example, between expertise in methods of accounting for financial instruments,
and expertise in complex modeling for the purpose of valuing financial instruments. In some cases, however, particularly
those involving an emerging area of accounting or auditing expertise, distinguishing between specialized areas of
accounting or auditing, and expertise in another field, will be a matter of professional judgment. Applicable professional
rules and standards regarding education and competency requirements for accountants and auditors may assist the
auditor in exercising that judgment.
4
A3. It is necessary to apply judgment when considering how the requirements of this SLAuS are affected by the fact that
an auditor’s expert may be either an individual or an organization. For example, when evaluating the competence,
capabilities and objectivity of an auditor’s expert, it may be that the expert is an organization the auditor has
4 For example, International Education Standard 8, “Competence Requirements for Audit Professionals” may be of assistance.

<!-- page 433 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
433A
previously used, but the auditor has no prior experience of the individual expert assigned by the organization for the
particular engagement; or it may be the reverse, that is, the auditor may be familiar with the work of an individual
expert but not with the organization that expert has joined. In either case, both the personal attributes of the
individual and the managerial attributes of the organization (such as systems of quality control the organization
implements) may be relevant to the auditor’s evaluation.
Determining the Need for an Auditor’s Expert (Ref: Para. 7)
A4. An auditor’s expert may be needed to assist the auditor in one or more of the following :
* Obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including its internal control.
* Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
* Determining and implementing overall responses to assessed risks at the financial statement level.
* Designing and performing further audit procedures to respond to assessed risks at the assertion level, comprising
tests of controls or substantive procedures.
* Evaluating the sufficiency and appropriateness of audit evidence obtained in forming an opinion on the
financial statements.
A5. The risks of material misstatement may increase when expertise in a field other than accounting is needed for
management to prepare the financial statements, for example, because this may indicate some complexity, or because
management may not possess knowledge of the field of expertise. If in preparing the financial statements management
does not possess the necessary expertise, a management’s expert may be used in addressing those risks. Relevant
controls, including controls that relate to the work of a management’s expert, if any, may also reduce the risks of
material misstatement.
A6. If the preparation of the financial statements involves the use of expertise in a field other than accounting, the auditor,
who is skilled in accounting and auditing, may not possess the necessary expertise to audit those financial statements.
The engagement partner is required to be satisfied that the engagement team, and any auditor’s experts who are not
part of the engagement team, collectively have the appropriate competence and capabilities to perform the audit
engagement.
5 Further, the auditor is required to ascertain the nature, timing and extent of resources necessary to
perform the engagement. 6 The auditor’s determination of whether to use the work of an auditor’s expert, and if so
when and to what extent, assists the auditor in meeting these requirements. As the audit progresses, or as circumstances
change, the auditor may need to revise earlier decisions about using the work of an auditor’s expert.
A7. An auditor who is not an expert in a relevant field other than accounting or auditing may nevertheless be able to
obtain a sufficient understanding of that field to perform the audit without an auditor’s expert. This understanding
may be obtained through, for example:
* Experience in auditing entities that require such expertise in the preparation of their financial statements.
* Education or professional development in the particular field. This may include formal courses, or discussion
with individuals possessing expertise in the relevant field for the purpose of enhancing the auditor’s own
capacity to deal with matters in that field. Such discussion differs from consultation with an auditor’s expert
regarding a specific set of circumstances encountered on the engagement where that expert is given all the
relevant facts that will enable the expert to provide informed advice about the particular matter.
7
* Discussion with auditors who have performed similar engagements.
5 SLAuS 220, paragraph 14.
6 SLAuS 300, “Planning an Audit of Financial Statements,” paragraph 8(e).
7 SLAuS 220, paragraph A21.

<!-- page 434 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
434A
A8. In other cases, however, the auditor may determine that it is necessary, or may choose, to use an auditor’s expert to
assist in obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence. Considerations when deciding whether to use an auditor’s
expert may include :
* Whether management has used a management’s expert in preparing the financial statements (see paragraph
A9).
* The nature and significance of the matter, including its complexity.
* The risks of material misstatement in the matter.
* The expected nature of procedures to respond to identified risks, including: the auditor’s knowledge of and
experience with the work of experts in relation to such matters; and the availability of alternative sources of
audit evidence.
A9. When management has used a management’s expert in preparing the financial statements, the auditor’s decision on
whether to use an auditor’s expert may also be influenced by such factors as:
* The nature, scope and objectives of the management’s expert’s work.
* Whether the management’s expert is employed by the entity, or is a party engaged by it to provide relevant
services.
* The extent to which management can exercise control or influence over the work of the management’s expert.
* The management’s expert’s competence and capabilities.
* Whether the management’s expert is subject to technical performance standards or other professional or
industry requirements
* Any controls within the entity over the management’s expert’s work.
SLAuS 500
8 includes requirements and guidance regarding the effect of the competence, capabilities and objectivity
of management’s experts on the reliability of audit evidence.
Nature, Timing and Extent of Audit Procedures (Ref: Para. 8)
A10. The nature, timing and extent of audit procedures with respect to the requirements in paragraphs 9-13 of this SLAuS
will vary depending on the circumstances. For example, the following factors may suggest the need for different or
more extensive procedures than would otherwise be the case :
* The work of the auditor’s expert relates to a significant matter that involves subjective and complex judgments.
* The auditor has not previously used the work of the auditor’s expert, and has no prior knowledge of that
expert’s competence, capabilities and objectivity.
* The auditor’s expert is performing procedures that are integral to the audit, rather than being consulted to
provide advice on an individual matter.
* The expert is an auditor’s external expert and is not, therefore, subject to the firm’s quality control policies and
procedures.
8 SLAuS 500, paragraph 8.

<!-- page 435 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
435A
The Auditor’ s Firm’ s Quality Control Policies and Procedures (Ref: Para. 8(e))
A11. An auditor’s internal expert may be a partner or staff, including temporary staff, of the auditor’s firm, and therefore
subject to the quality control policies and procedures of that firm in accordance with SLSQC 19. 10 Alternatively, an
auditor’s internal expert may be a partner or staff, including temporary staff, of a network firm, which may share
common quality control policies and procedures with the auditor’s firm.
A12. An auditor’s external expert is not a member of the engagement team and is not subject to quality control policies and
procedures in accordance with SLSQC 1
11. In some jurisdictions, however, law or regulation may require that an
auditor’s external expert be treated as a member of the engagement team, and may therefore be subject to relevant
ethical requirements, including those pertaining to independence, and other professional requirements, as determined
by that law or regulation.
A13. Engagement teams are entitled to rely on the firm’s system of quality control, unless information provided by the firm
or other parties suggests otherwise.
12 The extent of that reliance will vary with the circumstances, and may affect the
nature, timing and extent of the auditor’s procedures with respect to such matters as:
* Competence and capabilities, through recruitment and training programs.
* Objectivity. Auditor’s internal experts are subject to relevant ethical requirements, including those pertaining to
independence.
* The auditor’s evaluation of the adequacy of the auditor’s expert’s work.
For example, the firm’s training programs may provide auditor’s internal experts with an appropriate
understanding of the interrelationship of their expertise with the audit process. Reliance on such training and
other firm processes, such as protocols for scoping the work of auditor’s internal experts, may affect the nature,
timing and extent of the auditor’s procedures to evaluate the adequacy of the auditor’s expert’s work.
* Adherence to regulatory and legal requirements, through monitoring processes.
* Agreement with the auditor’s expert.
Such reliance does not reduce the auditor’s responsibility to meet the requirements of this SLAuS.
The Competence, Capabilities and Objectivity of the Auditor’s Expert (Ref:
Para. 9)
A14. The competence, capabilities and objectivity of an auditor’s expert are factors that significantly affect whether the
work of the auditor’s expert will be adequate for the auditor’s purposes. Competence relates to the nature and level of
expertise of the auditor’s expert. Capability relates to the ability of the auditor’s expert to exercise that competence in
the circumstances of the engagement. Factors that influence capability may include, for example, geographic location,
and the availability of time and resources. Objectivity relates to the possible effects that bias, conflict of interest, or
the influence of others may have on the professional or business judgment of the auditor’s expert.
A15. Information regarding the competence, capabilities and objectivity of an auditor’s expert may come from a variety of
sources, such as :
*Personal experience with previous work of that expert.
*Discussions with that expert.
9 SLSQC 1, “Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related
Services Engagements,” paragraph 12(f).
10 Not used.
11 SLSQC 1, paragraph 12(f).
12 SLAuS 220, paragraph 4.

<!-- page 436 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
436A
* Discussions with other auditors or others who are familiar with that expert’s work.
* Knowledge of that expert’s qualifications, membership of a professional body or industry association, license
to practice, or other forms of external recognition.
* Published papers or books written by that expert.
* The auditor’s firm’s quality control policies and procedures (see paragraphs A11-A13).
A16. Matters relevant to evaluating the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the auditor’s expert include whether
that expert’s work is subject to technical performance standards or other professional or industry requirements, for
example, ethical standards and other membership requirements of a professional body or industry association,
accreditation standards of a licensing body, or requirements imposed by law or regulation.
A17. Other matters that may be relevant include :
* The relevance of the auditor’s expert’s competence to the matter for which that expert’s work will be used,
including any areas of specialty within that expert’s field. For example, a particular actuary may specialize in
property and casualty insurance, but have limited expertise regarding pension calculations.
* The auditor’s expert’s competence with respect to relevant accounting and auditing requirements, for example,
knowledge of assumptions and methods, including models where applicable, that are consistent with the
applicable financial reporting framework.
* Whether unexpected events, changes in conditions, or the audit evidence obtained from the results of audit
procedures indicate that it may be necessary to reconsider the initial evaluation of the competence, capabilities
and objectivity of the auditor’s expert as the audit progresses.
A18. A broad range of circumstances may threaten objectivity, for example, selfinterest threats, advocacy threats, familiarity
threats, self-review threats, and intimidation threats. Safeguards may eliminate or reduce such threats, and may be
created by external structures (for example, the auditor’s expert’s profession, legislation or regulation), or by the
auditor’s expert’s work environment (for example, quality control policies and procedures). There may also be
safeguards specific to the audit engagement.
A19. The evaluation of the significance of threats to objectivity and of whether there is a need for safeguards may depend
upon the role of the auditor’s expert and the significance of the expert’s work in the context of the audit. There may be
some circumstances in which safeguards cannot reduce threats to an acceptable level, for example, if a proposed
auditor’s expert is an individual who has played a significant role in preparing the information that is being audited,
that is, if the auditor’s expert is a management’s expert.
A20. When evaluating the objectivity of an auditor’s external expert, it may be relevant to :
(a) Inquire of the entity about any known interests or relationships that the entity has with the auditor’s external
expert that may affect that expert’s objectivity ;
(b ) Discuss with that expert any applicable safeguards, including any professional requirements that apply to that
expert; and evaluate whether the safeguards are adequate to reduce threats to an acceptable level. Interests and
relationships that it may be relevant to discuss with the auditor’s expert include:
AUDITING
* Financial interests.
* Business and personal relationships.
* Provision of other services by the expert, including by the organization in the case of an external expert that
is an organization.
In some cases, it may also be appropriate for the auditor to obtain a written representation from the auditor’s
external expert about any interests or relationships with the entity of which that expert is aware.

<!-- page 437 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
437A
Obtaining an Understanding of the Field of Expertise of the Auditor’s Expert (Ref: Para. 10)
A21. The auditor may obtain an understanding of the auditor’s expert’s field of expertise through the means described in
paragraph A7, or through discussion with that expert.
A22. Aspects of the auditor’s expert’s field relevant to the auditor’s understanding may include :
* Whether that expert’s field has areas of specialty within it that are relevant to the audit (see paragraph A17).
* Whether any professional or other standards, and regulatory or legal requirements apply.
* What assumptions and methods, including models where applicable, are used by the auditor’s expert, and
whether they are generally accepted within that expert’s field and appropriate for financial reporting purposes.
* The nature of internal and external data or information the auditor’s expert uses.
Agreement with the Auditor’s Expert (Ref: Para. 11)
A23. The nature, scope and objectives of the auditor’s expert’s work may vary considerably with the circumstances, as may
the respective roles and responsibilities of the auditor and the auditor’s expert, and the nature, timing and extent of
communication between the auditor and the auditor’s expert. It is therefore required that these matters are agreed
between the auditor and the auditor’s expert regardless of whether the expert is an auditor’s external expert or an
auditor’s internal expert.
A24. The matters noted in paragraph 8 may affect the level of detail and formality of the agreement between the auditor and
the auditor’s expert, including whether it is appropriate that the agreement be in writing. For example, the following
factors may suggest the need for more a detailed agreement than would otherwise be the case, or for the agreement
to be set out in writing :
* The auditor’s expert will have access to sensitive or confidential entity information.
* The respective roles or responsibilities of the auditor and the auditor’s expert are different from those normally
expected.
* Multi-jurisdictional legal or regulatory requirements apply.
* The matter to which the auditor’s expert’s work relates is highly complex.
* The auditor has not previously used work performed by that expert.
* The greater the extent of the auditor’s expert’s work, and its significance in the context of the audit.
A25. The agreement between the auditor and an auditor’s external expert is often in the form of an engagement letter. The
Appendix lists matters that the auditor may consider for inclusion in such an engagement letter, or in any other form
of agreement with an auditor’s external expert.
A26. When there is no written agreement between the auditor and the auditor’s expert, evidence of the agreement may be
included in, for example :
* Planning memoranda, or related working papers such as the audit program.
* The policies and procedures of the auditor’s firm. In the case of an auditor’s internal expert, the established
policies and procedures to which that expert is subject may include particular policies and procedures in
relation to that expert’s work. The extent of documentation in the auditor’s working papers depends on the
nature of such policies and procedures. For example, no documentation may be required in the auditor’s
working papers if the auditor’s firm has detailed protocols covering the circumstances in which the work of
such an expert is used.

<!-- page 438 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
438A
Nature, Scope and Objectives of Work (Ref: Para. 11(a))
A27. It may often be relevant when agreeing on the nature, scope and objectives of the auditor’s expert’s work to include
discussion of any relevant technical performance standards or other professional or industry requirements that the
expert will follow.
Respective Roles and Responsibilities (Ref: Para. 11(b))
A28. Agreem ent on the respective roles and responsibilities of the auditor and the auditor’s expert may include :
UDITING
* Whether the auditor or the auditor’s expert will perform detailed testing of source data.
* Consent for the auditor to discuss the auditor’s expert’s findings or conclusions with the entity and others, and
to include details of that expert’s findings or conclusions in the basis for a modified opinion in the auditor’s
report, if necessary (see paragraph A42).
* Any agreement to inform the auditor’s expert of the auditor’s conclusions concerning that expert’s work.
Working Papers
A29. Agreement on the respective roles and responsibilities of the auditor and the auditor’s expert may also include
agreement about access to, and retention of, each other’s working papers. When the auditor’s expert is a member of
the engagement team, that expert’s working papers form part of the audit documentation. Subject to any agreement to
the contrary, auditor’s external experts’ working papers are their own and do not form part of the audit documentation.
Communication (Ref: Para. 11(c))
A30. Ef fective two-way communication facilitates the proper integration of the nature, timing and extent of the auditor’s
expert’s procedures with other work on the audit, and appropriate modification of the auditor’s expert’s objectives
during the course of the audit. For example, when the work of the auditor’s expert relates to the auditor’s conclusions
regarding a significant risk, both a formal written report at the conclusion of that expert’s work, and oral reports as the
work progresses, may be appropriate. Identification of specific partners or staff who will liaise with the auditor’s
expert, and procedures for communication between that expert and the entity, assists timely and effective
communication, particularly on larger engagements.
Confidentiality (Ref: Para. 11(d))
A31. It is necessary for the confidentiality provisions of relevant ethical requirements that apply to the auditor also to
apply to the auditor’s expert. Additional requirements may be imposed by law or regulation. The entity may also have
requested that specific confidentiality provisions be agreed with auditor’s external experts.
Evaluating the Adequacy of the Auditor’s Expert’s Work (Ref: Para. 12)
A32. The auditor’s evaluation of the auditor’s expert’s competence, capabilities and objectivity, the auditor’s familiarity
with the auditor’s expert’s field of expertise, and the nature of the work performed by the auditor’s expert affect the
nature, timing and extent of audit procedures to evaluate the adequacy of that expert’s work for the auditor’s purposes.
The Findings and Conclusions of the Auditor’ s Expert (Ref: Para. 12(a))
A33. Specific procedures to evaluate the adequacy of the auditor’s expert’s work for the auditor’s purposes may include :
* Inquiries of the auditor’s expert.
* Reviewing the auditor’s expert’s working papers and reports.

<!-- page 439 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
439A
* Corroborative procedures, such as :
 Observing the auditor’s expert’s work ;
 Examining published data, such as statistical reports from reputable, authoritative sources ;
 Confirming relevant matters with third parties ;
 Performing detailed analytical procedures ; and
 Reperforming calculations.
* Discussion with another expert with relevant expertise when, for example, the findings or conclusions of the
auditor’s expert are not consistent with other audit evidence.
* Discussing the auditor’s expert’s report with management.
A34. Relevant factors when evaluating the relevance and reasonableness of the findings or conclusions of the auditor’s
expert, whether in a report or other form, may include whether they are :
* Presented in a manner that is consistent with any standards of the auditor’s expert’s profession or industry;
* Clearly expressed, including reference to the objectives agreed with the auditor, the scope of the work performed
and standards applied;
* Based on an appropriate period and take into account subsequent events, where relevant;
* Subject to any reservation, limitation or restriction on use, and if so, whether this has implications for the
auditor; and
* Based on appropriate consideration of errors or deviations encountered by the auditor’s expert.
UDITING
Assumptions, Methods and Source Data
Assumptions and Methods (Ref: Para. 12(b))
A35. When the auditor’s expert’s work is to evaluate underlying assumptions and methods, including models where
applicable, used by management in developing an accounting estimate, the auditor’s procedures are likely to be
primarily directed to evaluating whether the auditor’s expert has adequately reviewed those assumptions and methods.
When the auditor’s expert’s work is to develop an auditor’s point estimate or an auditor’s range for comparison with
management’s point estimate, the auditor’s procedures may be primarily directed to evaluating the assumptions and
methods, including models where appropriate, used by the auditor’s expert.
A36. SLAuS 540
13 discusses the assumptions and methods used by management in making accounting estimates, including
the use in some cases of highly specialized, entity-developed models. Although that discussion is written in the
context of the auditor obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding management’s assumptions and
methods, it may also assist the auditor when evaluating an auditor’s expert’s assumptions and methods.
13 SLAuS 540, “Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures,” paragraphs 8, 1 3
and 15.

<!-- page 440 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
440A
A37. When an auditor’s expert’s work involves the use of significant assumptions and methods, factors relevant to the
auditor’s evaluation of those assumptions and methods include whether they are :
* Generally accepted within the auditor’s expert’s field ;
* Consistent with the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework ;
* Dependent on the use of specialized models ; and
* Consistent with those of management, and if not, the reason for, and effects of, the differences.
Source Data Used by the Auditor’s Expert (Ref: Para. 12(c))
A38. When an auditor’s expert’s work involves the use of source data that is significant to that expert’s work, procedures
such as the following may be used to test that data:
* Verifying the origin of the data, including obtaining an understanding of, and where applicable testing, the
internal controls over the data and, where relevant, its transmission to the expert.
* Reviewing the data for completeness and internal consistency.
A39. In many cases, the auditor may test source data. However, in other cases, when the nature of the source data used by
an auditor’s expert is highly technical in relation to the expert’s field, that expert may test the source data. If the
auditor’s expert has tested the source data, inquiry of that expert by the auditor, or supervision or review of that
expert’s tests may be an appropriate way for the auditor to evaluate that data’s relevance, completeness, and accuracy.
Inadequate Work (Ref: Para. 13)
A40. If the auditor concludes that the work of the auditor’s expert is not adequate for the auditor’s purposes and the
auditor cannot resolve the matter through the additional audit procedures required by paragraph 13, which may
involve further work being performed by both the expert and the auditor, or include employing or engaging another
expert, it may be necessary to express a modified opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705
because the auditor has not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
14
Reference to the Auditor’s Expert in the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 14-15)
A41. In some cases, law or regulation may require a reference to the work of an auditor’s expert, for example, for the
purposes of transparency in the public sector.
A42. It may be appropriate in some circumstances to refer to the auditor’s expert in an auditor’s report containing a
modified opinion, to explain the nature of the modification. In such circumstances, the auditor may need the permission
of the auditor’s expert before making such a reference.
AUDITING
Appendix
(Ref: Para. A25)
Considerations for Agreement between the Auditor and an
Auditor’s External Expert
This Appendix lists matters that the auditor may consider for inclusion in any agreement with an auditor’s external
expert. The following list is illustrative and is not exhaustive; it is intended only to be a guide that may be used in conjunction
with the considerations outlined in this SLAuS. Whether to include particular matters in the agreement depends on the
circumstances of the engagement. The list may also be of assistance in considering the matters to be included in an
agreement with an auditor’s internal expert.
14 SLAuS 705, “Modification to the opinion in the independent Auditor's Report" Paragraph 6(b)..

<!-- page 441 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
441A
Nature, Scope and Objectives of the Auditor’s External Expert’s Work
* The nature and scope of the procedures to be performed by the auditor’s external expert.
* The objectives of the auditor’s external expert’s work in the context of materiality and risk considerations concerning
the matter to which the auditor’s external expert’s work relates, and, when relevant, the applicable financial reporting
framework.
* Any relevant technical performance standards or other professional or industry requirements the auditor’s external
expert will follow.
* The assumptions and methods, including models where applicable, the auditor’s external expert will use, and their
authority.
* The effective date of, or when applicable the testing period for, the subject matter of the auditor’s external expert’s
work, and requirements regarding subsequent events.
The Respective Roles and Responsibilities of the Auditor and the Auditor’s External Expert
* Relevant auditing and accounting standards, and relevant regulatory or legal requirements.
* The auditor’s external expert’s consent to the auditor’s intended use of that expert’s report, including any reference
to it, or disclosure of it, to others, for example reference to it in the basis for a modified opinion in the auditor’s
report, if necessary, or disclosure of it to management or an audit committee.
* The nature and extent of the auditor’s review of the auditor’s external expert’s work.
* Whether the auditor or the auditor’s external expert will test source data.
* The auditor’s external expert’s access to the entity’s records, files, personnel and to experts engaged by the entity.
* Procedures for communication between the auditor’s external expert and the entity.
* The auditor’s and the auditor’s external expert’s access to each other’s working papers.
* Ownership and control of working papers during and after the engagement, including any file retention requirements.
* The auditor’s external expert’s responsibility to perform work with due skill and care.
* The auditor’s external expert’s competence and capability to perform the work.
* The expectation that the auditor’s external expert will use all knowledge that expert has that is relevant to the audit
or, if not, will inform the auditor.
* Any restriction on the auditor’s external expert’s association with the auditor’s report.
* Any agreement to inform the auditor’s external expert of the auditor’s conclusions concerning that expert’s work.
Communications and Reporting
* Methods and frequency of communications, including:
 How the auditor’s external expert’s findings or conclusions will be reported (for example, written report, oral
report, ongoing input to the engagement team).
 Identification of specific persons within the engagement team who will liaise with the auditor’s external expert.
* When the auditor’s external expert will complete the work and report findings or conclusions to the auditor.
* The auditor’s external expert’s responsibility to communicate promptly any potential delay in completing the work,
and any potential reservation or limitation on that expert’s findings or conclusions.

<!-- page 442 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
442A
* The auditor’s external expert’s responsibility to communicate promptly instances in which the entity restricts that
expert’s access to records, files, personnel or experts engaged by the entity.
* The auditor’s external expert’s responsibility to communicate to the auditor all information that expert believes may
be relevant to the audit, including any changes in circumstances previously communicated.
* The auditor’s external expert’s responsibility to communicate circumstances that may create threats to that expert’s
objectivity, and any relevant safeguards that may eliminate or reduce such threats to an acceptable level.
Confidentiality
* The need for the auditor’s expert to observe confidentiality requirements, including:
 The confidentiality provisions of relevant ethical requirements that apply to the auditor.
 Additional requirements that may be imposed by law or regulation, if any.
 Specific confidentiality provisions requested by the entity, if any.
SRI  LANKA  AUDITING  STANDARD  700
FORMING  AN  OPINION AND  REPORTING  ON  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................ 1-4
Effective Date  ....................................................................................... 5
Objectives ............................................................................................ 6
Definitions ........................................................................................... 7-9
Requirements
Forming an Opinion on the Financial Statements ................................ 10-15
Form of Opinion  ................................................................................... 16-19
Auditor’s Report ................................................................................... 20-45
Supplementary Information Presented with the Financial
Statements  …… ……….………………………………............ 46-47
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Qualitative Aspects of the Entity’s Accounting Practices ................... A1-A3
Disclosure of the Effect of Material Transactions and Events on the
Information Conveyed in the Financial Statements  ..................... A4
Description of the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework …....... A5-A10
Form of Opinion  ................................................................................... A11-A12
Auditor’s Report  .................................................................................. A13-A44
Supplementary Information Presented with the Financial
Statements  .................................................................................. A45-A51
Appendix: Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports on Financial Statements
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements,” should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the
Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards.”

<!-- page 443 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
443A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to form an opinion on the financial
statements. It also deals with the form and content of the auditor’s report issued as a result of an audit of financial
statements.
2. SLAuS 705
1 and SLAuS 7062 deal with how the form and content of the auditor’s report are affected when the auditor
expresses a modified opinion or includes an Emphasis of Matter paragraph or an Other Matter paragraph in the
auditor’s report.
3. This SLAuS is written in the context of a complete set of general purpose financial statements. SLAuS 800
3 deals with
special considerations when financial statements are prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework.
SLAuS 805
4 deals with special considerations relevant to an audit of a single financial statement or of a specific
element, account or item of a financial statement.
4. This SLAuS promotes consistency in the auditor’s report. Consistency in the auditor’s report, when the audit has
been conducted in accordance with SLAuSs, promotes credibility in the global marketplace by making more readily
identifiable those audits that have been conducted in accordance with globally recognized standards. It also helps to
promote the user’s understanding and to identify unusual circumstances when they occur.
Effective Date
5. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
6. The objectives of the auditor are :
(a) To form an opinion on the financial statements based on an evaluation of the conclusions drawn from the audit
evidence obtained ; and
(b) To express clearly that opinion through a written report that also describes the basis for that opinion.
Definitions
7. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) General purpose financial statements – Financial statements prepared in accordance with a general purpose
framework.
(b) General purpose framework – A financial reporting framework designed to meet the common financial information
needs of a wide range of users. The financial reporting framework may be a fair presentation framework or a
compliance framework.
1 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”
2 SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”
3 SLAuS 800, “Special Considerations—Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks.”
4 SLAuS 805, “Special Considerations—Audits of Single Financial Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts or Items of a Financi al
Statement.”

<!-- page 444 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
444A
The term “fair presentation framework” is used to refer to a financial reporting framework that requires compliance
with the requirements of the framework and:
(i) Acknowledges explicitly or implicitly that, to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements, it may be
necessary for management to provide disclosures beyond those specifically required by the framework; or
(ii) Acknowledges explicitly that it may be necessary for management to depart from a requirement of the
framework to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements. Such departures are expected to be
necessary only in extremely rare circumstances.
The term “compliance framework” is used to refer to a financial reporting framework that requires compliance
with the requirements of the framework, but does not contain the acknowledgements in (i) or (ii) above.
5
(c) Unmodified opinion – The opinion expressed by the auditor when the auditor concludes that the financial
statements are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.6
8. Reference to “financial statements” in this SLAuS means “a complete set of general purpose financial statements,
including the related notes.” The related notes ordinarily comprise a summary of significant accounting policies and
other explanatory information. The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework determine the form
and content of the financial statements, and what constitutes a complete set of financial statements.
UDITING
9. Reference to “Sri Lanka Accounting Standards” in this SLAuS means the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued by
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, and reference to “Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standards”
means the Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka.
Requirements
Forming an Opinion on the Financial Statements
10. The auditor shall form an opinion on whether the financial statements are prepared, in all material respects, in
accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
7 8
11. In order to form that opinion, the auditor shall conclude as to whether the auditor has obtained reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
That conclusion shall take into account :
(a) The auditor’s conclusion, in accordance with SLAuS 330, whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has
been obtained ;
9
(b) The auditor’s conclusion, in accordance with SLAuS 450, whether uncorrected misstatements are material,
individually or in aggregate ;10 and
(c) The evaluations required by paragraphs 12-15.
5 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph 13(a).
6 Paragraphs 35-36 deal with the phrases used to express this opinion in the case of a fair presentation framework and a complian ce
framework respectively.
7 SLAuS 200, paragraph 11.
8 Paragraphs 35-36 deal with the phrases used to express this opinion in the case of a fair presentation framework and a complian ce
framework respectively.
9 SLAuS 330, “The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks,” paragraph 26.
10 SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit,” paragraph 11.

<!-- page 445 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
445A
12. The auditor shall evaluate whether the financial statements are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with
the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework. This evaluation shall include consideration of the
qualitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices, including indicators of possible bias in management’s
judgments. (Ref: Para. A1-A3)
13. In particular, the auditor shall evaluate whether, in view of the requirements of the applicable financial reporting
framework :
(a) The financial statements adequately disclose the significant accounting policies selected and applied ;
(b) The accounting policies selected and applied are consistent with the applicable financial reporting framework
and are appropriate ;
(c) The accounting estimates made by management are reasonable ;
(d) The information presented in the financial statements is relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable ;
(e) The financial statements provide adequate disclosures to enable the intended users to understand the effect of
material transactions and events on the information conveyed in the financial statements ; and (Ref: Para. A4)
(f) The terminology used in the financial statements, including the title of each financial statement, is appropriate.
14. When the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the evaluation required
by paragraphs 12-13 shall also include whether the financial statements achieve fair presentation. The auditor’s
evaluation as to whether the financial statements achieve fair presentation shall include consideration of :
(a) The overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements ; and
(b) Whether the financial statements, including the related notes, represent the underlying transactions and
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
15. The auditor shall evaluate whether the financial statements adequately refer to or describe the applicable financial
reporting framework. (Ref: Para. A5- A10)
Form of Opinion
16. The auditor shall express an unmodified opinion when the auditor concludes that the financial statements are
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
17. If the auditor :
(a) concludes that, based on the audit evidence obtained, the financial statements as a whole are not free from
material misstatement ; or
(b) is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to conclude that the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement,
the auditor shall modify the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705.
18. If financial statements prepared in accordance with the requirements of a fair presentation framework do not achieve
fair presentation, the auditor shall discuss the matter with management and, depending on the requirements of the
applicable financial reporting framework and how the matter is resolved, shall determine whether it is necessary to
modify the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705. (Ref: Para. A11)

<!-- page 446 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
446A
19. When the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a compliance framework, the auditor is not required to
evaluate whether the financial statements achieve fair presentation. However, if in extremely rare circumstances the
auditor concludes that such financial statements are misleading, the auditor shall discuss the matter with management
and, depending on how it is resolved, shall determine whether, and how, to communicate it in the auditor’s report.
(Ref: Para. A12)
Auditor’s Report
20. The auditor’s report shall be in writing. (Ref: Para. A13-A14)
Auditor’ s Report for Audits Conducted in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards
Title
21. The auditor’s report shall have a title that clearly indicates that it is the report of an independent auditor. (Ref: Para.
A15)
Addressee
22. The auditor’s report shall be addressed as required by the circumstances of the engagement. (Ref: Para. A16)
Introductory Paragraph
23. The introductory paragraph in the auditor’s report shall: (Ref: Para. A17- A19)
(a)Identify the entity whose financial statements have been audited ;
(b)State that the financial statements have been audited ;
(c)Identify the title of each statement that comprises the financial statements ;
(d)Refer to the summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information ; and
(e)Specify the date or period covered by each financial statement comprising the financial statements.
Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements
24. This section of the auditor’s report describes the responsibilities of those in the organization that are responsible for
the preparation of the financial statements. The auditor’s report need not refer specifically to “management,” but shall
use the term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction. In some jurisdictions,
the appropriate reference may be to those charged with governance.
25. The auditor’s report shall include a section with the heading “Management’s [or other appropriate term] Responsibility
for the Financial Statements.”
26. The auditor’s report shall describe management’s responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements. The
description shall include an explanation that management is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements
in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework, and for such internal control as it determines is
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error. (Ref: Para. A20-A23)
27. Where the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the explanation of
management’s responsibility for the financial statements in the auditor’s report shall refer to “the preparation and fair
presentation of these financial statements” or “the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view,”
as appropriate in the circumstances.

<!-- page 447 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
447A
Auditor’s Responsibility
28. The auditor’s report shall include a section with the heading “Auditor’s Responsibility.”
29. The auditor’s report shall state that the responsibility of the auditor is to express an opinion on the financial statements
based on the audit. (Ref: Para. A24)
30. The auditor’s report shall state that the audit was conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. The
auditor’s report shall also explain that those standards require that the auditor comply with ethical requirements and
that the auditor plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free from material misstatement. (Ref: Para. A25-A26)
31. The auditor’s report shall describe an audit by stating that :
(a) An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements ;
(b) The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the financial statements in order to
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. In circumstances when the auditor also has a
responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in conjunction with the audit of the
financial statements, the auditor shall omit the phrase that the auditor’s consideration of internal control is not
for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control ; and
(c) An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness
of accounting estimates made by management, as well as the overall presentation of the financial statements.
32. Where the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the description of the
audit in the auditor’s report shall refer to “the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements”
or “the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view,” as appropriate in the circumstances.
33. The auditor’s report shall state whether the auditor believes that the audit evidence the auditor has obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for the auditor’s opinion.
Auditor’s Opinion
34. The auditor’s report shall include a section with the heading “Opinion.”
35. When expressing an unmodified opinion on financial statements prepared in accordance with a fair presentation
framework, the auditor’s opinion shall, unless otherwise required by law or regulation, use one of the following
phrases, which are regarded as being equivalent :
(a) The financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, … in accordance with [the applicable financial
reporting framework]  ; or
(b) The financial statements give a true and fair view of … in accordance with [the applicable financial reporting
framework]. (Ref: Para. A27-A33)
36. When expressing an unmodified opinion on financial statements prepared in accordance with a compliance framework,
the auditor’s opinion shall be that the financial statements are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with
[the applicable financial reporting framework]. (Ref: Para. A27, A29-A33)

<!-- page 448 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
448A
37. If the reference to the applicable financial reporting framework in the auditor’s opinion is not to Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting
Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, the auditor’s opinion shall identify the
jurisdiction of origin of the framework.
Other Reporting Responsibilities
38. If the auditor addresses other reporting responsibilities in the auditor’s report on the financial statements that are in
addition to the auditor’s responsibility under the SLAuSs to report on the financial statements, these other reporting
responsibilities shall be addressed in a separate section in the auditor’s report that shall be sub-titled “Report on
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements,” or otherwise as appropriate to the content of the section. (Ref: Para. A34-
A35)
39. If the auditor’s report contains a separate section on other reporting responsibilities, the headings, statements and
explanations referred to in paragraphs 23-37 shall be under the sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements.” The
“Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” shall follow the “Report on the Financial Statements.” (Ref:
Para. A36)
Signature of the Auditor
40. The auditor’s report shall be signed. (Ref: Para. A37)
Date of the Auditor’s Report
41. The auditor’s report shall be dated no earlier than the date on which the auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate
audit evidence on which to base the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements, including evidence that : (Ref: Para.
A38-A41)
(a)All the statements that comprise the financial statements, including the related notes, have been prepared ; and
(b)Those with the recognized authority have asserted that they have taken responsibility for those financial statements.
Auditor’s Address
42. The auditor’s report shall name the location in the jurisdiction where the auditor practices.
Auditor’ s Report Prescribed by Law or Regulation
43. If the auditor is required by law or regulation of a specific jurisdiction to use a specific layout or wording of the
auditor’s report, the auditor’s report shall refer to Sri Lanka Auditing Standards only if the auditor’s report includes,
at a minimum, each of the following elements : (Ref: Para. A42)
(a) A title;
(b) An addressee, as required by the circumstances of the engagement ;
(c) An introductory paragraph that identifies the financial statements audited ;
(d) A description of the responsibility of management (or other appropriate term, see paragraph 24) for the preparation
of the financial statements ;
(e) A description of the auditor’s responsibility to express an opinion on the financial statements and the scope of
the audit, that includes :
* A reference to Sri Lanka Auditing Standards and the law or regulation ; and
* A description of an audit in accordance with those standards ;

<!-- page 449 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
449A
(f) An opinion paragraph containing an expression of opinion on the financial statements and a reference to the
applicable financial reporting framework used to prepare the financial statements (including identifying the
jurisdiction of origin of the financial reporting framework that is not Sri Lanka Accounting Standards or Sri
Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standards, see paragraph 37) ;
(g) The auditor’s signature ;
(h) The date of the auditor’s report ; and
(i) The auditor’s address.
Auditor’ s Report for Audits Conducted in Accordance with Both Auditing Standards of a Specific Jurisdiction and Sri
Lanka Auditing Standards
44. An auditor may be required to conduct an audit in accordance with the auditing standards of a specific jurisdiction
(the “national auditing standards”), but may additionally have complied with the SLAuSs in the conduct of the audit.
If this is the case, the auditor’s report may refer to Sri Lanka Auditing Standards in addition to the national auditing
standards, but the auditor shall do so only if: (Ref: Para. A43-A44)
(a) There is no conflict between the requirements in the national auditing standards and those in SLAuSs that
would lead the auditor (i) to form a different opinion, or (ii) not to include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph that,
in the particular circumstances, is required by SLAuSs; and
(b) The auditor’s report includes, as a minimum, each of the elements set out in paragraph 43(a)(i) when the auditor
uses the layout or wording specified by the national auditing standards. Reference to law or regulation in
paragraph 43(e) shall be read as reference to the national auditing standards. The auditor’s report shall thereby
identify such national auditing standards.
45. When the auditor’s report refers to both the national auditing standards and Sri Lanka Auditing Standards, the
auditor’s report shall identify the jurisdiction of origin of the national auditing standards.
Supplementary Information Presented with the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. A45-A51)
46. If supplementary information that is not required by the applicable financial reporting framework is presented with the
audited financial statements, the auditor shall evaluate whether such supplementary information is clearly differentiated
from the audited financial statements. If such supplementary information is not clearly differentiated from the audited
financial statements, the auditor shall ask management to change how the unaudited supplementary information is
presented. If management refuses to do so, the auditor shall explain in the auditor’s report that such supplementary
information has not been audited.
47. Supplementary information that is not required by the applicable financial reporting framework but is nevertheless an
integral part of the financial statements because it cannot be clearly differentiated from the audited financial statements
due to its nature and how it is presented shall be covered by the auditor’s opinion.
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Qualitative Aspects of the Entity’s Accounting Practices (Ref: Para. 12)
A1. Management makes a number of judgments about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.

<!-- page 450 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
450A
A2. SLAuS 260 contains a discussion of the qualitative aspects of accounting practices. 11 In considering the qualitative
aspects of the entity’s accounting practices, the auditor may become aware of possible bias in management’s judgments.
The auditor may conclude that the cumulative effect of a lack of neutrality, together with the effect of uncorrected
misstatements, causes the financial statements as a whole to be materially misstated. Indicators of a lack of neutrality
that may affect the auditor’s evaluation of whether the financial statements as a whole are materially misstated include
the following:
*  The selective correction of misstatements brought to management’s attention during the audit (for example,
correcting misstatements with the effect of increasing reported earnings, but not correcting misstatements that
have the effect of decreasing reported earnings).·UDITING
* Possible management bias in the making of accounting estimates.
A3. SLAuS 540 addresses possible management bias in making accounting estimates.
12 Indicators of possible management
bias do not constitute misstatements for purposes of drawing conclusions on the reasonableness of individual
accounting estimates. They may, however, affect the auditor’s evaluation of whether the financial statements as a
whole are free from material misstatement.
Disclosure of the Effect of Material Transactions and Events on the Information Conveyed in the Financial Statements (Ref:
Para. 13(e))
A4. It is common for financial statements prepared in accordance with a general purpose framework to present an entity’s
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. In such circumstances, the auditor evaluates whether the
financial statements provide adequate disclosures to enable the intended users to understand the effect of material
transactions and events on the entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Description of the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework (Ref: Para. 15)
A5. As explained in SLAuS 200, the preparation of the financial statements by management and, where appropriate, those
charged with governance requires the inclusion of an adequate description of the applicable financial reporting
framework in the financial statements.
13 That description is important because it advises users of the financial
statements of the framework on which the financial statements are based.
A6. A description that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a particular applicable financial reporting
framework is appropriate only if the financial statements comply with all the requirements of that framework that are
effective during the period covered by the financial statements.
A7. A description of the applicable financial reporting framework that contains imprecise qualifying or limiting language
(for example, “the financial statements are in substantial compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards”) is not an
adequate description of that framework as it may mislead users of the financial statements.
Reference to More than One Financial Reporting Framework
A8. In some cases, the financial statements may represent that they are prepared in accordance with two financial
reporting frameworks (for example, the national framework and International Financial Reporting Standards). This
may be because management is required, or has chosen, to prepare the financial statements in accordance with both
frameworks, in which case both are applicable financial reporting frameworks. Such description is appropriate only if
the financial statements comply with each of the frameworks individually. To be regarded as being prepared in
11 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” Appendix 2.
12 SLAuS 540, “Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures,” paragraph 21.
13 SLAuS 200, paragraphs A2-A3.

<!-- page 451 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
451A
accordance with both frameworks, the financial statements need to comply with both frameworks simultaneously and
without any need for reconciling statements. In practice, simultaneous compliance is unlikely unless the jurisdiction
has adopted the other framework (for example, International Financial Reporting Standards) as its own national
framework, or has eliminated all barriers to compliance with it.
A9. Financial statements that are prepared in accordance with one financial reporting framework and that contain a note
or supplementary statement reconciling the results to those that would be shown under another framework, are not
prepared in accordance with that other framework. This is because the financial statements do not include all the
information in the manner required by that other framework.
A10. The financial statements may, however, be prepared in accordance with one applicable financial reporting framework
and, in addition, describe in the notes to the financial statements the extent to which the financial statements comply
with another framework (for example, financial statements prepared in accordance with the national framework that
also describe the extent to which they comply with International Financial Reporting Standards). Such description is
supplementary financial information and, as discussed in paragraph 47, is considered an integral part of the financial
statements and, accordingly, is covered by the auditor’s opinion.
Form of Opinion (Ref: Para. 18-19)
A11. There may be cases where the financial statements, although prepared in accordance with the requirements of a fair
presentation framework, do not achieve fair presentation. Where this is the case, it may be possible for management
to include additional disclosures in the financial statements beyond those specifically required by the framework or,
in extremely rare circumstances, to depart from a requirement in the framework in order to achieve fair presentation of
the financial statements.
A12. It will be extremely rare for the auditor to consider financial statements that are prepared in accordance with a
compliance framework to be misleading if, in accordance with SLAuS 210, the auditor determined that the framework
is acceptable.
14
UDITING
Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 20)
A13. A written report encompasses reports issued in hard copy format and those using an electronic medium.
A14. The Appendix contains illustrations of auditors’ reports on financial statements, incorporating the elements set forth
in paragraphs 21-42.
Auditor’ s Report for Audits Conducted in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards
Title (Ref: Para. 21)
A15. A title indicating the report is the report of an independent auditor, for example, “Independent Auditor’s Report,”
affirms that the auditor has met all of the relevant ethical requirements regarding independence and, therefore,
distinguishes the independent auditor’s report from reports issued by others.
Addressee (Ref: Para. 22)
A16. Law or regulation often specifies to whom the auditor’s report is to be addressed in that particular jurisdiction. The
auditor’s report is normally addressed to those for whom the report is prepared, often either to the shareholders or to
those charged with governance of the entity whose financial statements are being audited.
14 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements,” paragraph 6(a).

<!-- page 452 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
452A
Introductory Paragraph (Ref: Para. 23)
A17. The introductory paragraph states, for example, that the auditor has audited the accompanying financial statements
of the entity, which comprise [state the title of each financial statement comprising the complete set of financial
statements required by the applicable financial reporting framework, specifying the date or period covered by each
financial statement] and the summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
A18. When the auditor is aware that the audited financial statements will be included in a document that contains other
information, such as an annual report, the auditor may consider, if the form of presentation allows, identifying the
page numbers on which the audited financial statements are presented. This helps users to identify the financial
statements to which the auditor’s report relates.
A19. The auditor’s opinion covers the complete set of financial statements as defined by the applicable financial reporting
framework. For example, in the case of many general purpose frameworks, the financial statements include: a balance
sheet, an income statement, a statement of changes in equity, a cash flow statement, and a summary of significant
accounting policies and other explanatory information. In some jurisdictions additional information might also be
considered to be an integral part of the financial statements.
Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 26)
A20. SLAuS 200 explains the premise, relating to the responsibilities of management and, where appropriate, those charged
with governance, on which an audit in accordance with SLAuSs is conducted.
15 Management and, where appropriate,
those charged with governance accept responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework, including where relevant their fair presentation. Management also
accepts responsibility for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The description of management’s
responsibilities in the auditor’s report includes reference to both responsibilities as it helps to explain to users the
premise on which an audit is conducted.
A21. There may be circumstances when it is appropriate for the auditor to add to the description of management’s
responsibility in paragraph 26 to reflect additional responsibilities that are relevant to the preparation of the financial
statements in the context of the particular jurisdiction or the nature of the entity.
A22. Paragraph 26 is consistent with the form in which the responsibilities are agreed in the engagement letter or other
suitable form of written agreement, as required by SLAuS 210.
16 SLAuS 210 provides some flexibility by explaining
that, if law or regulation prescribes the responsibilities of management and, where appropriate, those charged with
governance in relation to financial reporting, the auditor may determine that the law or regulation includes responsibilities
that, in the auditor’s judgment, are equivalent in effect to those set out in SLAuS 210. For such responsibilities that
are equivalent, the auditor may use the wording of the law or regulation to describe them in the engagement letter or
other suitable form of written agreement. In such cases, this wording may also be used in the auditor’s report to
describe management’s responsibilities as required by paragraph 26. In other circumstances, including where the
auditor decides not to use the wording of law or regulation as incorporated in the engagement letter, the wording of
paragraph 26 is used.
A23. In some jurisdictions, law or regulation prescribing management’s responsibilities may specifically refer to a
responsibility for the adequacy of accounting books and records, or accounting system. As books, records and
systems are an integral part of internal control (as defined in SLAuS 315
17), the descriptions in SLAuS 210 and in
paragraph 26 do not make specific reference to them.
AUDITING
15 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(j).
16 SLAuS 210, paragraph 6(b)(i)-(ii).
17 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment,”
paragraph 4(c).

<!-- page 453 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
453A
Auditor’s Responsibility (Ref: Para. 29-30)
A24. The auditor’s report states that the auditor’s responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based
on the audit in order to contrast it to management’s responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements.
A25. The reference to the standards used conveys to the users of the auditor’s report that the audit has been conducted
in accordance with established standards.
A26. In accordance with SLAuS 200, the auditor does not represent compliance with SLAuSs in the auditor’s report unless
the auditor has complied with the requirements of SLAuS 200 and all other SLAuSs relevant to the audit.18
Auditor’s Opinion (Ref: Para. 35-37)
Wording of the auditor’s opinion prescribed by law or regulation
A27. SLAuS 210 explains that, in some cases, law or regulation of the relevant jurisdiction prescribes the wording of the
auditor’s report (which in particular includes the auditor’s opinion) in terms that are significantly different from the
requirements of SLAuSs. In these circumstances, SLAuS 210 requires the auditor to evaluate :
(a) Whether users might misunderstand the assurance obtained from the audit of the financial statements and,
if   so ;
(b) Whether additional explanation in the auditor’s report can mitigate possible misunderstanding.
If the auditor concludes that additional explanation in the auditor’s report cannot mitigate possible misunderstanding,
SLAuS 210 requires the auditor not to accept the audit engagement, unless required by law or regulation to do so. In
accordance with SLAuS 210, an audit conducted in accordance with such law or regulation does not comply with
SLAuSs. Accordingly, the auditor does not include any reference in the auditor’s report to the audit having been
conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 19
“Present fairly, in all material respects” or “give a true and fair view”
A28. Whether the phrase “present fairly, in all material respects,” or the phrase “give a true and fair view” is used in any
particular jurisdiction is determined by the law or regulation governing the audit of financial statements in that
jurisdiction, or by generally accepted practice in that jurisdiction. Where law or regulation requires the use of
different wording, this does not affect the requirement in paragraph 14 of this SLAuS for the auditor to evaluate the
fair presentation of financial statements prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework.
Description of information that the financial statements present
A29. In the case of financial statements prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the auditor’s opinion
states that the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, or give a true and fair view of the information
that the financial statements are designed to present, for example, in the case of many general purpose frameworks,
the financial position of the entity as at the end of the period and the entity’s financial performance and cash flows for
the period then ended.
Description of the applicable financial reporting framework and how it may affect the auditor’s opinion
18  SLAuS 200, paragraph 20.
19 SLAuS 210, paragraph 21.

<!-- page 454 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
454A
A30. The identification of the applicable financial reporting framework in the auditor’s opinion is intended to advise users
of the auditor’s report of the context in which the auditor’s opinion is expressed; it is not intended to limit the
evaluation required in paragraph 14. The applicable financial reporting framework is identified in such terms as:
“… in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards” or
“… in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Jurisdiction X …”
A31. When the applicable financial reporting framework encompasses financial reporting standards and legal or regulatory
requirements, the framework is identified in such terms as “… in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and
the requirements of Jurisdiction X Corporations Act.” SLAuS 210 deals with circumstances where there are conflicts
between the financial reporting standards and the legislative or regulatory requirements.
20
A32. As indicated in paragraph A8, the financial statements may be prepared in accordance with two financial reporting
frameworks, which are therefore both applicable financial reporting frameworks. Accordingly, each framework is
considered separately when forming the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements, and the auditor’s opinion in
accordance with paragraphs 35-36 refers to both frameworks as follows :
(a) If the financial statements comply with each of the frameworks individually, two opinions are expressed: that is,
that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with one of the applicable financial reporting frameworks
(for example, the national framework) and an opinion that the financial statements are prepared in accordance
with the other applicable financial reporting framework (for example, International Financial Reporting Standards).
These opinions may be expressed separately or in a single sentence (for example, the financial statements are
presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
Jurisdiction X and with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards) ;
(b) If the financial statements comply with one of the frameworks but fail to comply with the other framework, an
unmodified opinion can be given that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the one framework
(for example, the national framework) but a modified opinion given with regard to the other framework (for
example, International Financial Reporting Standards) in accordance with SLAuS 705.
A33. As indicated in paragraph A10, the financial statements may represent compliance with the applicable financial
reporting framework and, in addition, disclose the extent of compliance with another financial reporting framework.
As explained in paragraph A46, such supplementary information is covered by the auditor’s opinion as it cannot be
clearly differentiated from the financial statements.
(a) If the disclosure as to the compliance with the other framework is misleading, a modified opinion is expressed
in accordance with SLAuS 705 ;
(b) If the disclosure is not misleading, but the auditor judges it to be of such importance that it is fundamental to the
users’ understanding of the financial statements, an Emphasis of Matter paragraph is added in accordance with
SLAuS 706, drawing attention to the disclosure.
Other Reporting Responsibilities (Ref: Para. 38-39)
A34. In some jurisdictions, the auditor may have additional responsibilities to report on other matters that are supplementary
to the auditor’s responsibility under the SLAuSs to report on the financial statements. For example, the auditor may be
asked to report certain matters if they come to the auditor’s attention during the course of the audit of the financial
statements. Alternatively, the auditor may be asked to perform and report on additional specified procedures, or to
express an opinion on specific matters, such as the adequacy of accounting books and records. Auditing standards in
the specific jurisdiction often provide guidance on the auditor’s responsibilities with respect to specific additional
reporting responsibilities in that jurisdiction.
20  SLAuS 210, paragraph 18

<!-- page 455 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
455A
A35. In some cases, the relevant law or regulation may require or permit the auditor to report on these other responsibilities
within the auditor’s report on the financial statements. In other cases, the auditor may be required or permitted to
report on them in a separate report.
A36. These other reporting responsibilities are addressed in a separate section of the auditor’s report in order to clearly
distinguish them from the auditor’s responsibility under the SLAuS to report on the financial statements. Where
relevant, this section may contain sub-heading(s) that describe(s) the content of the other reporting responsibility
paragraph(s).
Signature of the Auditor (Ref: Para. 40)
A37. The auditor’s signature is either in the name of the audit firm, the personal name of the auditor or both, as appropriate
for the particular jurisdiction. In addition to the auditor’s signature, in certain jurisdictions, the auditor may be
required to declare in the auditor’s report the auditor’s professional accountancy designation or the fact that the
auditor or firm, as appropriate, has been recognized by the appropriate licensing authority in that jurisdiction.
Date of the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 41)
A38. The date of the auditor’s report informs the user of the auditor’s report that the auditor has considered the effect of
events and transactions of which the auditor became aware and that occurred up to that date. The auditor’s
responsibility for events and transactions after the date of the auditor’s report is addressed in SLAuS 560.
21
A39. Since the auditor’s opinion is provided on the financial statements and the financial statements are the responsibility
of management, the auditor is not in a position to conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been
obtained until evidence is obtained that all the statements that comprise the financial statements, including the
related notes, have been prepared and management has accepted responsibility for them.
A40. In some jurisdictions, the law or regulation identifies the individuals or bodies (for example, the directors) that are
responsible for concluding that all the statements that comprise the financial statements, including the related notes,
have been prepared, and specifies the necessary approval process. In such cases, evidence is obtained of that
approval before dating the report on the financial statements. In other jurisdictions, however, the approval process is
not prescribed in law or regulation. In such cases, the procedures the entity follows in preparing and finalizing its
financial statements in view of its management and governance structures are considered in order to identify the
individuals or body with the authority to conclude that all the statements that comprise the financial statements,
including the related notes, have been prepared. In some cases, law or regulation identifies the point in the financial
statement reporting process at which the audit is expected to be complete.
A41. In some jurisdictions, final approval of the financial statements by shareholders is required before the financial
statements are issued publicly. In these jurisdictions, final approval by shareholders is not necessary for the auditor
to conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained. The date of approval of the financial
statements for purposes of SLAuSs is the earlier date on which those with the recognized authority determine that all
the statements that comprise the financial statements, including the related notes, have been prepared and that those
with the recognized authority have asserted that they have taken responsibility for them.
Auditor’ s Report Prescribed by Law or Regulation (Ref: Para. 43)
A42. SLAuS 200 explains that the auditor may be required to comply with legal or regulatory requirements in addition to
SLAuSs.
22 Where this is the case, the auditor may be obliged to use a layout or wording in the auditor’s report that
differs from that described in this SLAuS. As explained in paragraph 4, consistency in the auditor’s report, when the
audit has been conducted in accordance with SLAuSs, promotes credibility in the global marketplace by making more
21 SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events,” paragraphs 10-17.
22 SLAuS 200, paragraph A55.

<!-- page 456 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
456A
readily identifiable those audits that have been conducted in accordance with globally recognized standards. When
the differences between the legal or regulatory requirements and SLAuSs relate only to the layout and wording of the
auditor’s report and, at a minimum, each of the elements identified in paragraph 43(a)(i) are included in the auditor’s
report, the auditor’s report may refer to Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Accordingly, in such circumstances the auditor
is considered to have complied with the requirements of SLAuSs, even when the layout and wording used in the
auditor’s report are specified by legal or regulatory reporting requirements. Where specific requirements in a particular
jurisdiction do not conflict with SLAuSs, adoption of the layout and wording used in this SLAuS assists users of the
auditor’s report more readily to recognize the auditor’s report as a report on an audit conducted in accordance with
SLAuSs. (SLAuS 210 deals with circumstances where law or regulation prescribes the layout or wording of the
auditor’s report in terms that are significantly different from the requirements of SLAuSs.)
Auditor’ s Report for Audits Conducted in Accordance with Both Auditing Standards of a Specific Jurisdiction and Sri
Lanka Auditing Standards (Ref: Para. 44)
A43. The auditor may refer in the auditor’s report to the audit having been conducted in accordance with both Sri Lanka
Auditing Standards as well as the national auditing standards when, in addition to complying with the relevant
national auditing standards, the auditor complies with each of the SLAuSs relevant to the audit.
23
A44. A reference to both Sri Lanka Auditing Standards and the national auditing standards is not appropriate if there is a
conflict between the requirements in SLAuSs and those in the national auditing standards that would lead the auditor
to form a different opinion or not to include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph that, in the particular circumstances, is
required by SLAuSs. For example, some national auditing standards prohibit the auditor from including an Emphasis
of Matter paragraph to highlight a going concern problem, whereas SLAuS 570 requires the auditor to add an
Emphasis of Matter paragraph in such circumstances.
24 In such a case, the auditor’s report refers only to the auditing
standards (either Sri Lanka Auditing Standards or the national auditing standards) in accordance with which the
auditor’s report has been prepared.
Supplementary Information Presented with the Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 46-47)
A45. In some circumstances, the entity may be required by law, regulation or standards, or may voluntarily choose, to
present together with the financial statements supplementary information that is not required by the applicable
financial reporting framework. For example, supplementary information might be presented to enhance a user’s
understanding of the applicable financial reporting framework or to provide further explanation of specific financial
statement items. Such information is normally presented in either supplementary schedules or as additional notes.
A46. The auditor’s opinion covers supplementary information that cannot be clearly differentiated from the financial
statements because of its nature and how it is presented. For example, this would be the case when the notes to the
financial statements include an explanation of the extent to which the financial statements comply with another
financial reporting framework. The auditor’s opinion would also cover notes or supplementary schedules that are
cross-referenced from the financial statements.
A47. Supplementary information that is covered by the auditor’s opinion does not need to be specifically referred to in the
introductory paragraph of the auditor’s report when the reference to the notes in the description of the statements
that comprise the financial statements in the introductory paragraph is sufficient.
A48. Law or regulation may not require that the supplementary information be audited, and management may decide not to
ask the auditor to include the supplementary information within the scope of the audit of the financial statements.
23 SLAuS 200, paragraph A56.
24 SLAuS 570, “Going Concern,” paragraph 19.

<!-- page 457 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
457A
A49. The auditor’s evaluation whether unaudited supplementary information is presented in a manner that could be
construed as being covered by the auditor’s opinion includes, for example, where that information is presented in
relation to the financial statements and any audited supplementary information, and whether it is clearly labeled as
“unaudited.”
AUDITING
A50. Management could cha nge the presentation of unaudited supplementary information that could be construed as
being covered by the auditor’s opinion, for example, by :
*  Removing any cross references from the financial statements to unaudited supplementary schedules or
unaudited notes so that the demarcation between the audited and unaudited information is sufficiently clear.
* Placing the unaudited supplementary information outside of the financial statements or, if that is not possible
in the circumstances, at a minimum place the unaudited notes together at the end of the required notes to the
financial statements and clearly label them as unaudited. Unaudited notes that are intermingled with the audited
notes can be misinterpreted as being audited.
A51. The fact that supplementary information is unaudited does not relieve the auditor of the responsibility to read that
information to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. The auditor’s responsibilities
with respect to unaudited supplementary information are consistent with those described in SLAuS 720.
25
Appendix
(Ref: Para. A14)
Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports on Financial Statements
* Illustration 1: An auditor’s report on financial statements prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework
designed to meet the common financial information needs of a wide range of users (for example, Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards).
* Illustration 2: An auditor’s report on financial statements prepared in accordance with a compliance framework
designed to meet the common financial information needs of a wide range of users.
* Illustration 3: An auditor’s report on consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with a fair presentation
framework designed to meet the common financial information needs of a wide range of users (for example, Sri
Lanka Accounting Standards).
Illustration 1 :
Circumstances include the following:
* Audit of a complete set of financial statements.
* The financial statements are prepared for a general purpose by management of the entity in accordance with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
* The terms of the audit engagement reflect description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
* In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities required
under local law.
25 SLAuS 720, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information in Documents Containing Audited Financial Statements. ”

<!-- page 458 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
458A
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Financial Statements
26
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then
ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
27 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,28 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
29 of the financial statements in order to
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
30 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of
the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair view of) the financial
position of ABC Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then
ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
26 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other L egal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
27 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
28 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such …”
29 In the case of footnote 28, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are approp riate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.”
30 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to d esign audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 28, this may read: “In making those risk assessm ents,
the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair v iew in order
to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 459 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
459A
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other
reporting responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 2:
Circumstances include the following:
* Audit of a complete set of financial statements required by law or regulation.
* The financial statements are prepared for a general purpose by management of the entity in accordance with
the Financial Reporting Framework (XYZ Law) of Jurisdiction X (that is, a financial reporting framework,
encompassing law or regulation, designed to meet the common financial information needs of a wide range of
users, but which is not a fair presentation framework).
* The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
INDEPENDENT  AUDITOR’S  REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then
ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’s
31 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of these financial statements in accordance with XYZ Law of
Jurisdiction X, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor
31 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 460 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
460A
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s
internal control.32 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness
of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1 are prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with XYZ Law of Jurisdiction X.
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 3:
Circumstances include the following:
* Audit of consolidated financial statements prepared for a general purpose by management of the parent in
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
* The terms of the group audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the
financial statements in SLAuS 210.
* In addition to the audit of the group financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities
required under local law.
INDEPENDENT  AUDITOR’S  REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
33
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and its subsidiaries, which comprise
the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 20X1, and the consolidated income statement, statement of changes in
equity and cash flow statement for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information.
32 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures  that are
appropriate in the circumstances.”
33 The sub-title “Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Repo rt
on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.

<!-- page 461 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
461A
Management’ s34 Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,35 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to
enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We
conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of
the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
36 of the
consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
37 An audit also includes evaluating
the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair
view of) the financial position of ABC Company and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) their financial
performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other
reporting responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
34 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
35 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lank a
Accounting Standards, and for such …”
36 In the case of footnote 35, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entity’s preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures th at are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s interna l
control.”
37 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the consolidated financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assess ments,
the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial
statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 35, this may  read:
“In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of consolidated financial
statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 462 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
462A
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 705
MODIFICATIONS  TO  THE  OPINION   IN   THE   INDEPENDENT   AUDITOR’S   REPORT
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraphs
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ...................................................................................................................................... 1
Types of Modified Opinions ......................................................................................................................... 2
Effective Date ................................................................................................................................................... 3
Objective  ......................................................................................................................................................... 4
Definitions ...................................................................................................................................................... 5
Requirements
Circumstances When a Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion is Required ......................................... 6
Determining the Type of Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion............................................................ 7-15
Form and Content of the Auditor’s Report When the Opinion is
 Modified  ........................................................................................................................................................ 16-27
Communication with Those Charged with Governance  ............................................................................ 28
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Types of Modified Opinions  ........................................................................................................................ A1
Nature of Material Misstatements ................................................................................................................. A2-A7
Nature of an Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence .................................................. A8-A12
Consequence of an Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit
 Evidence Due to a Management-Imposed Limitation after the
Auditor Has Accepted the Engagement  ..................................................................................................... A13-A15
Other Considerations Relating to an Adverse Opinion or Disclaimer of
 Opinion  ........................................................................................................................................................... A16
Form and Content of the Auditor’s Report When the Opinion is
 Modified .......................................................................................................................................................... A17-A24
Communication with Those Charged with Governance ………................................................................ A25
Appendix: Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports with Modifications
 to the Opinion
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuS) 705 “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent
Auditor’s Report” should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200 “Overall Objectives of the
Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to issue an appropriate report in
circumstances when, in forming an opinion in accordance with SLAuS 700,
1 the auditor concludes that a modification
to the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements is necessary.
1 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements.”

<!-- page 463 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
463A
Types of Modified Opinions
2. This SLAuS establishes three types of modified opinions, namely, a qualified opinion, an adverse opinion, and a
disclaimer of opinion. The decision regarding which type of modified opinion is appropriate depends upon:
(a) The nature of the matter giving rise to the modification, that is, whether the financial statements are materially
misstated or, in the case of an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, may be materially misstated;
and
(b) The auditor’s judgment about the pervasiveness of the effects or possible effects of the matter on the financial
statements. (Ref: Para. A1)
Effective Date
3. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
4. The objective of the auditor is to express clearly an appropriately modified opinion on the financial statements that is
necessary when:
(a) The auditor concludes, based on the audit evidence obtained, that the financial statements as a whole are not
free from material misstatement; or
(b) The auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to conclude that the financial statements as
a whole are free from material misstatement.
Definitions
5. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Pervasive – A term used, in the context of misstatements, to describe the effects on the financial statements of
misstatements or the possible effects on the financial statements of misstatements, if any, that are undetected
due to an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. Pervasive effects on the financial statements
are those that, in the auditor’s judgment:
(i) Are not confined to specific elements, accounts or items of the financial statements;
(ii) If so confined, represent or could represent a substantial proportion of the financial statements; or
(iii) In relation to disclosures, are fundamental to users’ understanding of the financial statements.
(b) Modified opinion – A qualified opinion, an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion.
Requirements
Circumstances When a Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion Is Required
6. The auditor shall modify the opinion in the auditor’s report when:
(a) The auditor concludes that, based on the audit evidence obtained, the financial statements as a whole are not
free from material misstatement; or (Ref: Para. A2-A7)
(b) The auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to conclude that the financial statements as
a whole are free from material misstatement. (Ref: Para. A8-A12)

<!-- page 464 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
464A
Determining the Type of Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion
Qualified Opinion
7. The auditor shall express a qualified opinion when:
(a) The auditor, having obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence, concludes that misstatements, individually
or in the aggregate, are material, but not pervasive, to the financial statements; or
(b) The auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the opinion, but the
auditor concludes that the possible effects on the financial statements of undetected misstatements, if any, could
be material but not pervasive.
Adverse Opinion
8. The auditor shall express an adverse opinion when the auditor, having obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence,
concludes that misstatements, individually or in the aggregate, are both material and pervasive to the financial
statements.
UDITING
Disclaimer of Opinion
9. The auditor shall disclaim an opinion when the auditor is unable to obtain  sufficient appropriate audit evidence on
which to base the opinion, and the auditor concludes that the possible effects on the financial statements of undetected
misstatements, if any, could be both material and pervasive.
10. The auditor shall disclaim an opinion when, in extremely rare circumstances involving multiple uncertainties, the
auditor concludes that, notwithstanding having obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding each of the
individual uncertainties, it is not possible to form an opinion on the financial statements due to the potential interaction
of the uncertainties and their possible cumulative effect on the financial statements.
Consequence of an Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence Due to a Management-Imposed Limitation
after the Auditor Has Accepted the Engagement
11. If, after accepting the engagement, the auditor becomes aware that management has imposed a limitation on the scope
of the audit that the auditor considers likely to result in the need to express a qualified opinion or to disclaim an
opinion on the financial statements, the auditor shall request that management remove the limitation.
12. If management refuses to remove the limitation referred to in paragraph 11, the auditor shall communicate the matter
to those charged with governance, unless all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the entity,
2 and determine whether it is possible to perform alternative procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.
13. If the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, the auditor shall determine the implications as
follows:
(a) If the auditor concludes that the possible effects on the financial statements of undetected misstatements, if any,
could be material but not pervasive, the auditor shall qualify the opinion; or
(b) If the auditor concludes that the possible effects on the financial statements of undetected misstatements, if any,
could be both material and pervasive so that a qualification of the opinion would be inadequate to communicate
the gravity of the situation, the auditor shall:
(i) Withdraw from the audit, where practicable and possible under applicable law or regulation; or (Ref: Para.
A13-A14)
(ii) If withdrawal from the audit before issuing the auditor’s report is not practicable or possible, disclaim an
opinion on the financial statements.
2 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 13.

<!-- page 465 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
465A
14. If the auditor withdraws as contemplated by paragraph 13(b)(i), before withdrawing, the auditor shall communicate to
those charged with governance any matters regarding misstatements identified during the audit that would have
given rise to a modification of the opinion. (Ref: Para. A15)
Other Considerations Relating to an Adverse Opinion or Disclaimer of Opinion
15. When the auditor considers it necessary to express an adverse opinion or disclaim an opinion on the financial
statements as a whole, the auditor’s report shall not also include an unmodified opinion with respect to the same
financial reporting framework on a single financial statement or one or more specific elements, accounts or items of a
financial statement. To include such an unmodified opinion in the same report
3 in these circumstances would contradict
the auditor’s adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion on the financial statements as a whole. (Ref: Para. A16)
Form and Content of the Auditor’s Report When the Opinion Is Modified
Basis for Modification Paragraph
16. When the auditor modifies the opinion on the financial statements, the auditor shall, in addition to the specific
elements required by SLAuS 700, include a paragraph in the auditor’s report that provides a description of the matter
giving rise to the modification. The auditor shall place this paragraph immediately before the opinion paragraph in the
auditor’s report and use the heading “Basis for Qualified Opinion,” “Basis for Adverse Opinion,” or “Basis for
Disclaimer of Opinion,” as appropriate. (Ref: Para. A17)
17. If there is a material misstatement of the financial statements that relates to specific amounts in the financial statements
(including quantitative disclosures), the auditor shall include in the basis for modification paragraph a description
and quantification of the financial effects of the misstatement, unless impracticable. If it is not practicable to quantify
the financial effects, the auditor shall so state in the basis for modification paragraph. (Ref: Para. A18)
18. If there is a material misstatement of the financial statements that relates to narrative disclosures, the auditor shall
include in the basis for modification paragraph an explanation of how the disclosures are misstated.
19. If there is a material misstatement of the financial statements that relates to the non-disclosure of information required
to be disclosed, the auditor shall:
(a) Discuss the non-disclosure with those charged with governance;
AUDITING
(b) Describe in the basis for modification paragraph the nature of the omitted information; and
(c) Unless prohibited by law or regulation, include the omitted disclosures, provided it is practicable to do so and the
auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the omitted information. (Ref: Para. A19)
20. If the modification results from an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, the auditor shall include in
the basis for modification paragraph the reasons for that inability.
21. Even if the auditor has expressed an adverse opinion or disclaimed an opinion on the financial statements, the auditor
shall describe in the basis for modification paragraph the reasons for any other matters of which the auditor is aware
that would have required a modification to the opinion, and the effects thereof. (Ref: Para. A20)
3 SLAuS 805, “Special Considerations—Audits of Single Financial Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts or Items of a Financia l
Statement,” deals with circumstances where the auditor is engaged to express a separate opinion on one or more specific element s,
accounts or items of a financial statement.

<!-- page 466 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
466A
Opinion Paragraph
22. When the auditor modifies the audit opinion, the auditor shall use the heading “Qualified Opinion,” “Adverse
Opinion,” or “Disclaimer of Opinion,” as appropriate, for the opinion paragraph. (Ref: Para. A21, A23-A24)
23. When the auditor expresses a qualified opinion due to a material misstatement in the financial statements, the auditor
shall state in the opinion paragraph that, in the auditor’s opinion, except for the effects of the matter(s) described in
the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph:
(a) The financial statements present fairly, in all material respects (or give a true and fair view) in accordance with the
applicable financial reporting framework when reporting in accordance with a fair presentation framework; or
(b) The financial statements have been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable financial
reporting framework when reporting in accordance with a compliance framework.
When the modification arises from an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, the auditor shall use
the corresponding phrase “except for the possible effects of the matter(s) ...” for the modified opinion. (Ref: Para. A22)
24. When the auditor expresses an adverse opinion, the auditor shall state in the opinion paragraph that, in the auditor’s
opinion, because of the significance of the matter(s) described in the Basis for Adverse Opinion paragraph:
(a) The financial statements do not present fairly (or give a true and fair view) in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting framework when reporting in accordance with a fair presentation framework; or
(b) The financial statements have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting framework when reporting in accordance with a compliance framework.
25. When the auditor disclaims an opinion due to an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, the auditor
shall state in the opinion paragraph that:
(a) Because of the significance of the matter(s) described in the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion paragraph, the
auditor has not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion;
and, accordingly,
(b) The auditor does not express an opinion on the financial statements.
Description of Auditor’ s Responsibility When the Auditor Expresses a Qualified or Adverse Opinion
26. When the auditor expresses a qualified or adverse opinion, the auditor shall amend the description of the auditor’s
responsibility to state that the auditor believes that the audit evidence the auditor has obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for the auditor’s modified audit opinion.
Description of Auditor’ s Responsibility When the Auditor Disclaims an Opinion
27. When the auditor disclaims an opinion due to an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, the auditor
shall amend the introductory paragraph of the auditor’s report to state that the auditor was engaged to audit the
financial statements. The auditor shall also amend the description of the auditor’s responsibility and the description
of the scope of the audit to state only the following: “Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial
statements based on conducting the audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Because of the matter(s)
described in the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion paragraph, however, we were not able to obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion.”
Communication with Those Charged with Governance
28. When the auditor expects to modify the opinion in the auditor’s report, the auditor shall communicate with those
charged with governance the circumstances that led to the expected modification and the proposed wording of the
modification. (Ref: Para. A25)
***

<!-- page 467 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
467A
4 SLAuS 700, paragraph 11.
5 SLAuS 450, “Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit,” paragraph 4(a).
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Types of Modified Opinions (Ref: Para. 2)
A1. The table below illustrates how the auditor’s judgment about the nature of the matter giving rise to the modification,
and the pervasiveness of its effects or possible effects on the financial statements, affects the type of opinion to be
expressed.
Auditor’ s Judgment about the Pervasiveness of the Effects or
Possible Effects on the Financial Statements
Nature of Matter Giving Material but Not Pervasive Material and Pervasive
Rise to the Modification
Financial statements Qualified opinion Adverse opinion
are materially misstated
Inability to obtain sufficient Qualified opinion Disclaimer of opinion
appropriate audit evidence
Nature of Material Misstatements (Ref: Para. 6(a))
A2. SLAuS 700 requires the auditor, in order to form an opinion on the financial statements, to conclude as to whether
reasonable assurance has been obtained about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement.
4  This conclusion takes into account the auditor’s evaluation of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on
the financial statements in accordance with SLAuS 450.5
A3. SLAuS 450 defines a misstatement as a difference between the amount, classification, presentation, or disclosure of
a reported financial statement item and the amount, classification, presentation, or disclosure that is required for the
item to be in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. Accordingly, a material misstatement of the
financial statements may arise in relation to:
(a) The appropriateness of the selected accounting policies;
(b) The application of the selected accounting policies; or
(c) The appropriateness or adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements.
Appropriateness of the Selected Accounting Policies
A4. In relation to the appropriateness of the accounting policies management has selected, material misstatements of the
financial statements may arise when:
(a) The selected accounting policies are not consistent with the applicable financial reporting framework; or
(b) The financial statements, including the related notes, do not represent the underlying transactions and events in
a manner that achieves fair presentation.

<!-- page 468 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
468A
A5. Financial reporting frameworks often contain requirements for the accounting for, and disclosure of, changes in
accounting policies. Where the entity has changed its selection of significant accounting policies, a material
misstatement of the financial statements may arise when the entity has not complied with these requirements.
Application of the Selected Accounting Policies
A6. In relation to the application of the selected accounting policies, material misstatements of the financial statements
may arise:
(a) When management has not applied the selected accounting policies consistently with the financial reporting
framework, including when management has not applied the selected accounting policies consistently between
periods or to similar transactions and events (consistency in application); or
(b) Due to the method of application of the selected accounting policies (such as an unintentional error in application).
Appropriateness or Adequacy of Disclosures in the Financial Statements
A7. In relation to the appropriateness or adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements, material misstatements of
the financial statements may arise when:
(a) The financial statements do not include all of the disclosures required by the applicable financial reporting
framework;
(b) The disclosures in the financial statements are not presented in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework; or
(c) The financial statements do not provide the disclosures necessary to achieve fair presentation.
Nature of an Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 6(b))
A8. The auditor’s inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence (also referred to as a limitation on the scope of
the audit) may arise from:
(a) Circumstances beyond the control of the entity;
(b) Circumstances relating to the nature or timing of the auditor’s work; or
(c) Limitations imposed by management.
A9. An inability to perform a specific procedure does not constitute a limitation on the scope of the audit if the auditor is
able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence by performing alternative procedures. If this is not possible, the
requirements of paragraphs 7(b) and 10 apply as appropriate. Limitations imposed by management may have other
implications for the audit, such as for the auditor’s assessment of fraud risks and consideration of engagement
continuance.
A10. Examples of circumstances beyond the control of the entity include when:
*  The entity’s accounting records have been destroyed.
*  The accounting records of a significant component have been seized indefinitely by governmental authorities.
A11. Examples of circumstances relating to the nature or timing of the auditor’s work include when:
*  The entity is required to use the equity method of accounting for an associated entity, and the auditor is unable
to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the latter’s financial information to evaluate whether the
equity method has been appropriately applied.
*  The timing of the auditor’s appointment is such that the auditor is unable to observe the counting of the
physical inventories.
*  The auditor determines that performing substantive procedures alone is not sufficient, but the entity’s controls
are not effective.

<!-- page 469 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
469A
A12. Examples of an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence arising from a limitation on the scope of the
audit imposed by management include when:
*  Management prevents the auditor from observing the counting of the physical inventory.
*  Management prevents the auditor from requesting external confirmation of specific account balances.
Consequence of an Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence Due to a Management-Imposed Limitation
after the Auditor Has Accepted the Engagement (Ref: Para. 13(b)-14)
A13. The practicality of withdrawing from the audit may depend on the stage of completion of the engagement at the time
that management imposes the scope limitation. If the auditor has substantially completed the audit, the auditor may
decide to complete the audit to the extent possible, disclaim an opinion and explain the scope limitation in the Basis
for Disclaimer of Opinion paragraph prior to withdrawing.
A14. In certain circumstances, withdrawal from the audit may not be possible if the auditor is required by law or regulation
to continue the audit engagement. This may be the case for an auditor that is appointed to audit the financial
statements of public sector entities. It may also be the case in jurisdictions where the auditor is appointed to audit the
financial statements covering a specific period, or appointed for a specific period and is prohibited from withdrawing
before the completion of the audit of those financial statements or before the end of that period, respectively. The
auditor may also consider it necessary to include an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report.
6
A15. When the auditor concludes that withdrawal from the audit is necessary because of a scope limitation, there may be
a professional, legal or regulatory requirement for the auditor to communicate matters relating to the withdrawal from
the engagement to regulators or the entity’s owners.
Other Considerations Relating to an Adverse Opinion or Disclaimer of Opinion (Ref: Para. 15)
A16. The following are examples of reporting circumstances that would not contradict the auditor’s adverse opinion or
disclaimer of opinion:
*  The expression of an unmodified opinion on financial statements prepared under a given financial reporting
framework and, within the same report, the expression of an adverse opinion on the same financial statements
under a different financial reporting framework.
7
*  The expression of a disclaimer of opinion regarding the results of operations, and cash flows, where relevant,
and an unmodified opinion regarding the financial position (see SLAuS 5108). In this case, the auditor has not
expressed a disclaimer of opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
NG
Form and Content of the Auditor’s Report When the Opinion Is Modified
Basis for Modification Paragraph (Ref: Para. 16-17, 19, 21)
A17. Consistency in the auditor’s report helps to promote users’ understanding and to identify unusual circumstances
when they occur. Accordingly, although uniformity in the wording of a modified opinion and in the description of the
basis for the modification may not be possible, consistency in both the form and content of the auditor’s report is
desirable.
6 SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report,” paragraph A5.
7 See paragraph A32 of SLAuS 700 for a description of this circumstance.
8 SLAuS 510, “Initial Audit Engagements Opening Balances,” paragraph 10.

<!-- page 470 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
470A
A18. An example of the financial effects of material misstatements that the auditor may describe in the basis for modification
paragraph in the auditor’s report is the quantification of the effects on income tax, income before taxes, net income
and equity if inventory is overstated.
A19. Disclosing the omitted information in the basis for modification paragraph would not be practicable if:
(a) The disclosures have not been prepared by management or the disclosures are otherwise not readily available to
the auditor; or
(b) In the auditor’s judgment, the disclosures would be unduly voluminous in relation to the auditor’s report.
A20. An adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion relating to a specific matter described in the basis for qualification
paragraph does not justify the omission of a description of other identified matters that would have otherwise
required a modification of the auditor’s opinion. In such cases, the disclosure of such other matters of which the
auditor is aware may be relevant to users of the financial statements.
Opinion Paragraph (Ref: Para. 22-23)
A21. Inclusion of this paragraph heading makes it clear to the user that the auditor’s opinion is modified and indicates the
type of modification.
A22. When the auditor expresses a qualified opinion, it would not be appropriate to use phrases such as “with the
foregoing explanation” or “subject to” in the opinion paragraph as these are not sufficiently clear or forceful.
Illustrative Auditors’ Reports
A23. Illustrations 1 and 2 in the Appendix contain auditors’ reports with qualified and adverse opinions, respectively, as
the financial statements are materially misstated.
A24. Illustration 3 in the Appendix contains an auditor’s report with a qualified opinion as the auditor is unable to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence. Illustration 4 contains a disclaimer of opinion due to an inability to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence about a single element of the financial statements. Illustration 5 contains a
disclaimer of opinion due to an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about multiple elements of the
financial statements. In each of the latter two cases, the possible effects on the financial statements of the inability are
both material and pervasive.
Communication with Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 28)
A25. Communicating with those charged with governance the circumstances that lead to an expected modification to the
auditor’s opinion and the proposed wording of the modification enables:
(a) The auditor to give notice to those charged with governance of the intended modification(s) and the reasons (or
circumstances) for the modification(s);
(b) The auditor to seek the concurrence of those charged with governance regarding the facts of the matter(s) giving
rise to the expected modification(s), or to confirm matters of disagreement with management as such; and
(c) Those charged with governance to have an opportunity, where appropriate, to provide the auditor with further
information and explanations in respect of the matter(s) giving rise to the expected modification(s).

<!-- page 471 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
471A
Appendix
(Ref: Para. A23-24)
Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports with Modifications to the Opinion
* Illustration 1: An auditor’s report containing a qualified opinion due to a material misstatement of the financial
statements.
* Illustration 2: An auditor’s report containing an adverse opinion due to a material misstatement of the financial
statements.
* Illustration 3: An auditor’s report containing a qualified opinion due to the auditor’s inability to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence.
* Illustration 4: An auditor’s report containing a disclaimer of opinion due to the auditor’s inability to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence about a single element of the financial statements.
* Illustration 5: An auditor’s report containing a disclaimer of opinion due to the auditor’s inability to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence about multiple elements of the financial statements.
Illustration 1:
Circumstances include the following:
* Audit of a complete set of general purpose financial statements prepared by management of the entity in
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
* The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.9
* Inventories are misstated. The misstatement is deemed to be material but not pervasive to the financial
statements.
* In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities required
under local law.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Financial Statements
10
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
11 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,12 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
9 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements.”
10 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other L egal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
11 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
12 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such ...”

<!-- page 472 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
472A
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit
in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from
material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
13 of the financial statements
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
14 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified
audit opinion.
Basis for Qualified Opinion
The company’s inventories are carried in the balance sheet at xxx. Management has not stated the inventories at the
lower of cost and net realizable value but has stated them solely at cost, which constitutes a departure from Sri Lanka
Accounting Standards. The company’s records indicate that had management stated the inventories at the lower of
cost and net realizable value, an amount of xxx would have been required to write the inventories down to their net
realizable value. Accordingly, cost of sales would have been increased by xxx, and income tax, net income and
shareholders’ equity would have been reduced by xxx, xxx and xxx, respectively.
Qualified Opinion
In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph, the financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair view of ) the financial position of ABC
Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other reporting
responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
13 In the case of footnote 12, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are approp riate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.”
14 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to d esign
audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 12, this may read: “In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a tr ue and fair
view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 473 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
473A
Illustration 2:
Circumstances include the following:
* Audit of consolidated general purpose financial statements prepared by management of the parent in
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
* The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
* The financial statements are materially misstated due to the non-consolidation of a subsidiary. The material
misstatement is deemed to be pervasive to the financial statements. The effects of the misstatement on the financial
statements have not been determined because it was not practicable to do so.
* In addition to the audit of the consolidated financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities
required under local law.
INDEPENDENT  AUDITOR’S  REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
15
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and its subsidiaries, which
comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 20X1, and the consolidated income statement, statement
of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting
policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
16 Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, 17 and for such internal control as management determines is
necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We
conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with
ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated
financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or
error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and
15 The sub-title “Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Repo rt
on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
16 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
17 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read :
“Management is responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordanc e with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and for such ...”

<!-- page 474 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
474A
fair presentation18 of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal
control.
19 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness
of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our adverse
audit opinion.
Basis for Adverse Opinion
As explained in Note X, the company has not consolidated the financial statements of subsidiary XYZ Company it
acquired during 20X1 because it has not yet been able to ascertain the fair values of certain of the subsidiary’s
material assets and liabilities at the acquisition date. This investment is therefore accounted for on a cost basis. Under
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, the subsidiary should have been consolidated because it is controlled by the
company. Had XYZ been consolidated, many elements in the accompanying financial statements would have been
materially affected. The effects on the consolidated financial statements of the failure to consolidate have not been
determined.
Adverse Opinion
In our opinion, because of the significance of the matter discussed in the Basis for Adverse Opinion paragraph, the
consolidated financial statements do not present fairly (or do not give a true and fair view of) the financial position
of ABC Company and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) their financial performance and their cash
flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other reporting
responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
18 In the case of footnote 17, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entity’s preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures th at are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s interna l
control.”
19 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the consolidated financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assess ments,
the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial
statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 17, this may  read:
“In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of consolidated financial
statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 475 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
475A
Illustration 3:
Circumstances include the following:
* Audit of a complete set of general purpose financial statements prepared by management of the entity in accordance
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
* The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial statements
in SLAuS 210.
* The auditor was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding an investment in a foreign affiliate.
The possible effects of the inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence are deemed to be material but not
pervasive to the financial statements.
* In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities required under
local law.
INDEPENDENT  AUDITOR’S  REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Financial Statements
20
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
21 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,22 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit
in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from
material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
23 of the financial statements
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
24 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
20 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other L egal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
21 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
22 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such ...”
23 In the case of footnote 22, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are approp riate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.”
24 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to d esign
audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 22, this may read: “In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a tr ue and fair
view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 476 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
476A
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified
audit opinion.
Basis for Qualified Opinion
ABC Company’s investment in XYZ Company, a foreign associate acquired during the year and accounted for by the
equity method, is carried at xxx on the balance sheet as at December 31, 20X1, and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net income
of xxx is included in ABC’s income for the year then ended. We were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence about the carrying amount of ABC’s investment in XYZ as at December 31, 20X1 and ABC’s share of XYZ’s
net income for the year because we were denied access to the financial information, management, and the auditors of
XYZ. Consequently, we were unable to determine whether any adjustments to these amounts were necessary.
Qualified Opinion
In our opinion, except for the possible effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph, the
financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair view of) the financial position of
ABC Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended
in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other reporting
responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 4:
Circumstances include the following:
* Audit of a complete set of general purpose financial statements prepared by management of the entity in accordance
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
* The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
* The auditor was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about a single element of the financial
statements. That is, the auditor was also unable to obtain audit evidence about the financial information of a joint
venture investment that represents over 90% of the company’s net assets. The possible effects of this inability to
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence are deemed to be both material and pervasive to the financial statements.
* In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities required
under local law.
INDEPENDENT  AUDITOR’S   REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Financial Statements
25
We were engaged to audit the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance
sheet as at December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for
the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
25 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other L egal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.

<!-- page 477 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
477A
Management’ s26 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,27 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on conducting the audit in accordance
with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Because of the matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion paragraph,
however, we were not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion.
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion
The company’s investment in its joint venture XYZ (Country X) Company is carried at xxx on the company’s balance
sheet, which represents over 90% of the company’s net assets as at December 31, 20X1. We were not allowed access
to the management and the auditors of XYZ, including XYZ’s auditors’ audit documentation. As a result, we were
unable to determine whether any adjustments were necessary in respect of the company’s proportional share of
XYZ’s assets that it controls jointly, its proportional share of XYZ’s liabilities for which it is jointly responsible, its
proportional share of XYZ’s income and expenses for the year, and the elements making up the statement of changes
in equity and cash flow statement.
Disclaimer of Opinion
Because of the significance of the matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion paragraph, we have not
been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion. Accordingly, we do
not express an opinion on the financial statements.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other reporting
responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
26 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
27 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such …”

<!-- page 478 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
478A
Illustration 5:
Circumstances include the following:
* Audit of a complete set of general purpose financial statements prepared by management of the entity in accordance
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
* The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
* The auditor was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about multiple elements of the financial
statements. That is, the auditor was unable to obtain audit evidence about the entity’s inventories and accounts
receivable. The possible effects of this inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence are deemed to be
both material and pervasive to the financial statements.
* In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities required
under local law.
INDEPENDENT  AUDITOR’S  REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Financial Statements
28
We were engaged to audit the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance
sheet as at December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for
the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
29 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,30 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on conducting the audit in accordance
with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Because of the matters described in the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion paragraph,
however, we were not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion.
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion
We were not appointed as auditors of the company until after December 31, 20X1 and thus did not observe the
counting of physical inventories at the beginning and end of the year. We were unable to satisfy ourselves by
alternative means concerning the inventory quantities held at December 31, 20X0 and 20X1 which are stated in the
balance sheet at xxx and xxx, respectively. In addition, the introduction of a new computerized accounts receivable
system in September 20X1 resulted in numerous errors in accounts receivable. As of the date of our audit report,
management was still in the process of rectifying the system deficiencies and correcting the errors. We were unable
to confirm or verify by alternative means accounts receivable included in the balance sheet at a total amount of xxx as
at December 31, 20X1. As a result of these matters, we were unable to determine whether any adjustments might have
been found necessary in respect of recorded or unrecorded inventories and accounts receivable, and the elements
making up the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.
28 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other L egal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
29 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
30 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such …”

<!-- page 479 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
479A
Disclaimer of Opinion
Because of the significance of the matters described in the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion paragraph, we have not
been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion. Accordingly, we do
not express an opinion on the financial statements.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other reporting
responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
AUDITINGSRI LANKA   AUDITING    STANDARD   706
EMPHASIS  OF   MATTER   PARAGRAPHS   AND   OTHER
MATTER   PARAGRAPHS  IN   THE   INDEPENDENT
AUDITOR’S   REPORT
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ....................................................................................................................................... 1-2
Effective Date .................................................................................................................................................. 3
Objective ......................................................................................................................................................... 4
Definitions ...................................................................................................................................................... 5
Requirements
Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report ........................................................................... 6-7
Other Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report  ..................................................................................... 8
Communication with Those Charged with Governance ............................................................................ 9
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report ......................................................................... A1-A4
Other Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report ...................................................................................... A5-A11
Communication with Those Charged with Governance …….................................................................... A12
Appendix 1: List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Emphasis of
Matter Paragraphs
Appendix 2: List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Other Matter
Paragraphs
Appendix 3: Illustration of an Auditor’s Report that Includes an
Emphasis of Matter Paragraph
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter
Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report” should be read in conjunction with SLAuS
200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”

<!-- page 480 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
480A
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with additional communication in the auditor’s report when the
auditor considers it necessary to:
(a) Draw users’ attention to a matter or matters presented or disclosed in the financial statements that are of such
importance that they are fundamental to users’ understanding of the financial statements; or
(b) Draw users’ attention to any matter or matters other than those presented or disclosed in the financial statements
that are relevant to users’ understanding of the audit, the auditor’s responsibilities or the auditor’s report.
2. Appendices 1 and 2 identify SLAuSs that contain specific requirements for the auditor to include Emphasis of Matter
paragraphs or Other Matter paragraphs in the auditor’s report. In those circumstances, the requirements in this
SLAuS regarding the form and placement of such paragraphs apply.
Effective Date
3. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
4. The objective of the auditor, having formed an opinion on the financial statements, is to draw users’ attention, when
in the auditor’s judgment it is necessary to do so, by way of clear additional communication in the auditor’s report, to:
(a) A matter, although appropriately presented or disclosed in the financial statements, that is of such importance
that it is fundamental to users’ understanding of the financial statements; or
(b) As appropriate, any other matter that is relevant to users’ understanding of the audit, the auditor’s responsibilities
or the auditor’s report.
Definitions
5. For the purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Emphasis of Matter paragraph – A paragraph included in the auditor’s report that refers to a matter appropriately
presented or disclosed in the financial statements that, in the auditor’s judgment, is of such importance that it is
fundamental to users’ understanding of the financial statements.
(b) Other Matter paragraph – A paragraph included in the auditor’s report that refers to a matter other than those
presented or disclosed in the financial statements that, in the auditor’s judgment, is relevant to users’
understanding of the audit, the auditor’s responsibilities or the auditor’s report.
Requirements
Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report
6. If the auditor considers it necessary to draw users’ attention to a matter presented or disclosed in the financial
statements that, in the auditor’s judgment, is of such importance that it is fundamental to users’ understanding of the
financial statements, the auditor shall include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report provided the
auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence that the matter is not materially misstated in the financial
statements. Such a paragraph shall refer only to information presented or disclosed in the financial statements.
(Ref: Para. A1-A2)

<!-- page 481 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
481A
7. When the auditor includes an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report, the auditor shall:
(a) Include it immediately after the Opinion paragraph in the auditor’s report;
(b) Use the heading “Emphasis of Matter,” or other appropriate heading;
(c) Include in the paragraph a clear reference to the matter being emphasized and to where relevant disclosures that
fully describe the matter can be found in the financial statements; and
(d) Indicate that the auditor’s opinion is not modified in respect of the matter emphasized. (Ref: Para. A3-A4)
Other Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report
8. If the auditor considers it necessary to communicate a matter other than those that are presented or disclosed in the
financial statements that, in the auditor’s judgment, is relevant to users’ understanding of the audit, the auditor’s
responsibilities or the auditor’s report and this is not prohibited by law or regulation, the auditor shall do so in a
paragraph in the auditor’s report, with the heading “Other Matter,” or other appropriate heading. The auditor shall
include this paragraph immediately after the Opinion paragraph and any Emphasis of Matter paragraph, or elsewhere
in the auditor’s report if the content of the Other Matter paragraph is relevant to the Other Reporting Responsibilities
section. (Ref: Para. A5-A11)
Communication with Those Charged with Governance
9. If the auditor expects to include an Emphasis of Matter or an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report, the
auditor shall communicate with those charged with governance regarding this expectation and the proposed wording
of this paragraph. (Ref: Para. A12)
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report
Circumstances in Which an Emphasis of Matter Paragraph May Be Necessary (Ref: Para. 6)
A1. Examples of circumstances where the auditor may consider it necessary to include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph
are:
• An uncertainty relating to the future outcome of exceptional litigation or regulatory action.
• Early application (where permitted) of a new accounting standard (for example, a new Sri Lanka Accounting
Standard) that has a pervasive effect on the financial statements in advance of its effective date.
• A major catastrophe that has had, or continues to have, a significant effect on the entity’s financial position.
A2. A widespread use of Emphasis of Matter paragraphs diminishes the effectiveness of the auditor’s communication of
such matters. Additionally, to include more information in an Emphasis of Matter paragraph than is presented or
disclosed in the financial statements may imply that the matter has not been appropriately presented or disclosed;
accordingly, paragraph 6 limits the use of an Emphasis of Matter paragraph to matters presented or disclosed in the
financial statements.
Including an Emphasis of Matter Paragraph in the Auditor’ s Report (Ref: Para. 7)

<!-- page 482 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
482A
A3. The inclusion of an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report does not affect the auditor’s opinion. An
Emphasis of Matter paragraph is not a substitute for either:
UDITING
(a) The auditor expressing a qualified opinion or an adverse opinion, or disclaiming an opinion, when required by the
circumstances of a specific audit engagement (see SLAuS 7051); or
UDITING
(b) Disclosures in the financial statements that the applicable financial reporting framework requires management to
make.
UDITING
A4. The illustrative report in Appendix 3 includes an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in an auditor’s report that contains a
qualified opinion.
UDITING
Other Matter Paragraphs in the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 8)
UDITING
Circumstances in Which an Other Matter Paragraph May Be Necessary
UDITING
Relevant to Users’ Understanding of the Audit
UDITING
A5. In the rare circumstance where the auditor is unable to withdraw from an engagement even though the possible effect
of an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence due to a limitation on the scope of the audit imposed by
management is pervasive,
2 the auditor may consider it necessary to include an Other Matter paragraph in the
auditor’s report to explain why it is not possible for the auditor to withdraw from the engagement.
UDITING
Relevant to Users’ Understanding of the Auditor’s Responsibilities or the Auditor’s Report
UDITING
A6. Law, regulation or generally accepted practice in a jurisdiction may require or permit the auditor to elaborate on
matters that provide further explanation of the auditor’s responsibilities in the audit of the financial statements or of
the auditor’s report thereon. Where relevant, one or more sub-headings may be used that describe the content of the
Other Matter paragraph.
UDITING
A7. An Other Matter paragraph does not deal with circumstances where the auditor has other reporting responsibilities
that are in addition to the auditor’s responsibility under the SLAuSs to report on the financial statements (see “Other
Reporting Responsibilities” section in SLAuS 700
3), or where the auditor has been asked to perform and report on
additional specified procedures, or to express an opinion on specific matters.
UDITING
Reporting on more than one set of financial statements
UDITING
A8. An entity may prepare one set of financial statements in accordance with a general purpose framework (for example,
the national framework) and another set of financial statements in accordance with another general purpose framework
(for example, International Financial Reporting Standards), and engage the auditor to report on both sets of financial
statements. If the auditor has determined that the frameworks are acceptable in the respective circumstances, the
auditor may include an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report, referring to the fact that another set of financial
statements has been prepared by the same entity in accordance with another general purpose framework and that the
auditor has issued a report on those financial statements.
UDITING
Restriction on distribution or use of the auditor’s reportUDITING
A9. Financial statements prepared for a specific purpose may be prepared in accordance with a general purpose framework
because the intended users have determined that such general purpose financial statements meet their financial
information needs. Since the auditor’s report is intended for specific users, the auditor may consider it necessary in
the circumstances to include an Other Matter paragraph, stating that the auditor’s report is intended solely for the
intended users, and should not be distributed to or used by other parties.
1 SLAuS 805, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent auditor’s Report.”
2 See paragraph 13(b)(ii) of SLAuS 705 for a discussion of this circumstance.
3 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements,” paragraphs 38-39.

<!-- page 483 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
483A
Including an Other Matter Paragraph in the Auditor’ s Report
A10. The content of an Other Matter paragraph reflects clearly that such other matter is not required to be presented and
disclosed in the financial statements. An Other Matter paragraph does not include information that the auditor is
prohibited from providing by law, regulation or other professional standards, for example, ethical standards relating
to confidentiality of information. An Other Matter paragraph also does not include information that is required to be
provided by management.
A11. The placement of an Other Matter paragraph depends on the nature of the information to be communicated. When an
Other Matter paragraph is included to draw users’ attention to a matter relevant to their understanding of the audit of
the financial statements, the paragraph is included immediately after the Opinion paragraph and any Emphasis of
Matter paragraph. When an Other Matter paragraph is included to draw users’ attention to a matter relating to Other
Reporting Responsibilities addressed in the auditor’s report, the paragraph may be included in the section subtitled
“Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements.” Alternatively, when relevant to all the auditor’s responsibilities
or users’ understanding of the auditor’s report, the Other Matter paragraph may be included as a separate section
following the Report on the Financial Statements and the Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements.
Communication with Those Charged with Governance (Ref. Para. 9)
A12.  Such communication enables those charged with governance to be made aware of the nature of any specific matters
that the auditor intends to highlight in the auditor’s report, and provides them with an opportunity to obtain further
clarification from the auditor where necessary. Where the inclusion of an Other Matter paragraph on a particular
matter in the auditor’s report recurs on each successive engagement, the auditor may determine that it is unnecessary
to repeat the communication on each engagement.
Appendix 1
(Ref: Para. 2)
List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs
This appendix identifies paragraphs in other SLAuSs in effect for audits of financial statements for periods beginning
on or after 01 January 2012, that require the auditor to include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report
in certain circumstances. The list is not a substitute for considering the requirements and related application and
other explanatory material in SLAuSs.
• SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements” – paragraph 19(b)
• SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events” – paragraphs 12(b) and 16
• SLAuS 570, “Going Concern” – paragraph 19
• SLAuS 800, “Special Considerations—Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special
Purpose Frameworks” – paragraph 14
Appendix 2
(Ref: Para. 2)
List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Other Matter
Paragraphs
This appendix identifies paragraphs in other SLAuSs in effect for audits of financial statements for periods beginning
on or after 01 January 2012, that require the auditor to include an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report in
certain circumstances. The list is not a substitute for considering the requirements and related application and other
explanatory material in SLAuSs.
• SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events” – paragraphs 12(b) and 16
• SLAuS 710, “Comparative Information—Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements” –
paragraphs 13-14, 16-17 and 19
• SLAuS 720, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information in Documents Containing Audited
Financial Statements” – paragraph 10(a)

<!-- page 484 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
484A
Appendix 3
(Ref: Para. A4)
Illustration of an Auditor’s Report that Includes an Emphasis of Matter Paragraph
Circumstances include the following:
• Audit of a complete set of general purpose financial statements prepared by management of the entity in accordance
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
• The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
4
• There is uncertainty relating to a pending exceptional litigation matter.
• A departure from the applicable financial reporting framework resulted in a qualified opinion.
• In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor has other reporting responsibilities required under
local law.
INDEPENDENT  AUDITOR’S   REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Financial Statements
5
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year
then ended, and  a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
6  Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,7 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit
in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from
material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
4 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements.”
5 The subtitle “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second subtitle “Report on Other Leg al
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
6 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
7 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such ...”

<!-- page 485 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
485A
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation8 of the financial statements
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
9 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence that we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
qualified audit opinion.
Basis for Qualified Opinion
The company’s short-term marketable securities are carried in the balance sheet at xxx. Management has not marked
these securities to market but has instead stated them at cost, which constitutes a departure from Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards. The company’s records indicate that had management marked the marketable securities to market, the
company would have recognized an unrealized loss of xxx in the income statement for the year. The carrying amount
of the securities in the balance sheet would have been reduced by the same amount at December 31, 20X1, and income
tax, net income and shareholders’ equity would have been reduced by xxx, xxx and xxx, respectively.
Qualified Opinion
In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph, the financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects (or give a true and fair view of ) the financial position of ABC
Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Emphasis of Matter
We draw attention to Note X to the financial statements which describes the uncertainty
10 related to the outcome of
the lawsuit filed against the company by XYZ Company. Our opinion is not qualified in respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other reporting
responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
8 In the case of footnote 7, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to  the
entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are approp riate in
the circumstances, but nor for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.”
9 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to d esign audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 7, this may read: “In making those risk assessme nts,
the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair v iew in order
to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”
10 In highlighting the uncertainty, the auditor uses the same terminology that is used in the note to the financial statements.

<!-- page 486 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
486A
SRI   LANKA   AUDITING   STANDARD   710
COMPARATIVE   INFORMATION—
CORRESPONDING   FIGURES   AND   COMPARATIVE
FINANCIAL   STATEMENTS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS  .................................................................................................................................. 1
The Nature of Comparative Information ................................................................................................. 2-3
Effective Date .............................................................................................................................................. 4
Objectives  ................................................................................................................................................... 5
Definitions .................................................................................................................................................. 6
Requirements
Audit Procedures ...................................................................................................................................... 7-9
Audit Reporting  ......................................................................................................................................... 10-19
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Audit Procedures ....................................................................................................................................... A1
Audit Reporting .......................................................................................................................................... A2-A11
Appendix: Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 710, “Comparative Information— Corresponding Figures
and Comparative Financial Statements” should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall
Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri
Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to comparative information
in an audit of financial statements. When the financial statements of the prior period have been audited by a
predecessor auditor or were not audited, the requirements and guidance in SLAuS 510
1 regarding opening balances
also apply.
The Nature of Comparative Information
2. The nature of the comparative information that is presented in an entity’s financial statements depends on the
requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework. There are two different broad approaches to the auditor’s
reporting responsibilities in respect of such comparative information: corresponding figures and comparative financial
statements. The approach to be adopted is often specified by law or regulation but may also be specified in the terms
of engagement.
1 SLAuS 510, “Initial Audit Engagements—Opening Balances.”

<!-- page 487 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
487A
3. The essential audit reporting differences between the approaches are:
(a) For corresponding figures, the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements refers to the current period only
(which is the applicable financial reporting framework in Sri Lanka); whereas
(b) For comparative financial statements, the auditor’s opinion refers to each period for which financial statements
are presented (which is not the applicable financial reporting framework in Sri Lanka).
This SLAuS addresses separately the auditor’s reporting requirements for each approach.
Effective Date
4. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
5. The objectives of the auditor are:
(a) To obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about whether the comparative information included in the
financial statements has been presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the requirements for
comparative information in the applicable financial reporting framework; and
(b) To report in accordance with the auditor’s reporting responsibilities.
AUDITING
Definitions
6. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Comparative information – The amounts and disclosures included in the financial statements in respect of one or
more prior periods in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
(b) Corresponding figures – Comparative information where amounts and other disclosures for the prior period are
included as an integral part of the current period financial statements, and are intended to be read only in relation
to the amounts and other disclosures relating to the current period (referred to as “current period figures”). The
level of detail presented in the corresponding amounts and disclosures is dictated primarily by its relevance to
the current period figures.
(c) Comparative financial statements – Comparative information where amounts and other disclosures for the prior
period are included for comparison with the financial statements of the current period but, if audited, are referred
to in the auditor’s opinion. The level of information included in those comparative financial statements is
comparable with that of the financial statements of the current period.
For purposes of this SLAuS, references to “prior period” should be read as “prior periods” when the comparative
information includes amounts and disclosures for more than one period.
Requirements
Audit Procedures
7. The auditor shall determine whether the financial statements include the comparative information required by the
applicable financial reporting framework and whether such information is appropriately classified. For this purpose,
the auditor shall evaluate whether:
(a) The comparative information agrees with the amounts and other disclosures presented in the prior period or,
when appropriate, have been restated; and
(b) The accounting policies reflected in the comparative information are consistent with those applied in the current
period or, if there have been changes in accounting policies, whether those changes have been properly accounted
for and adequately presented and disclosed.

<!-- page 488 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
488A
8. If the auditor becomes aware of a possible material misstatement in the comparative information while performing the
current period audit, the auditor shall perform such additional audit procedures as are necessary in the circumstances
to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to determine whether a material misstatement exists. If the auditor had
audited the prior period’s financial statements, the auditor shall also follow the relevant requirements of SLAuS 560.
2
If the prior period financial statements are amended, the auditor shall determine that the comparative information
agrees with the amended financial statements.
9. As required by SLAuS 580,
3 the auditor shall request written representations for all periods referred to in the auditor’s
opinion. The auditor shall also obtain a specific written representation regarding any restatement made to correct a
material misstatement in prior period financial statements that affect the comparative information. (Ref: Para. A1)
Audit Reporting
Corresponding Figures
10. When corresponding figures are presented, the auditor’s opinion shall not refer to the corresponding figures except
in the circumstances described in paragraphs 11, 12, and 14. (Ref: Para. A2)
11. If the auditor’s report on the prior period, as previously issued, included a qualified opinion, a disclaimer of opinion,
or an adverse opinion and the matter which gave rise to the modification is unresolved, the auditor shall modify the
auditor’s opinion on the current period’s financial statements. In the Basis for Modification paragraph in the auditor’s
report, the auditor shall either:
(a) Refer to both the current period’s figures and the corresponding figures in the description of the matter giving
rise to the modification when the effects or possible effects of the matter on the current period’s figures are
material; or
(b) In other cases, explain that the audit opinion has been modified because of the effects or possible effects of the
unresolved matter on the comparability of the current period’s figures and the corresponding figures. (Ref: Para.
A3-A5)
12. If the auditor obtains audit evidence that a material misstatement exists in the prior period financial statements on
which an unmodified opinion has been previously issued, and the corresponding figures have not been properly
restated or appropriate disclosures have not been made, the auditor shall express a qualified opinion or an adverse
opinion in the auditor’s report on the current period financial statements, modified with respect to the corresponding
figures included therein. (Ref: Para. A6)
Prior Period Financial Statements Audited by a Predecessor Auditor
13. If the financial statements of the prior period were audited by a predecessor auditor and the auditor is not prohibited
by law or regulation from referring to the predecessor auditor’s report on the corresponding figures and decides to do
so, the auditor shall state in an Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report:
(a) That the financial statements of the prior period were audited by the predecessor auditor;
(b) The type of opinion expressed by the predecessor auditor and, if the opinion was modified, the reasons therefore;
and
(c) The date of that report. (Ref: Para. A7)
Prior Period Financial Statements Not Audited
2 SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events,” paragraphs 14-17.
3 SLAuS 580, “Written Representations,” paragraph 14.

<!-- page 489 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
489A
14. If the prior period financial statements were not audited, the auditor shall state in an Other Matter paragraph in the
auditor’s report that the corresponding figures are unaudited. Such a statement does not, however, relieve the auditor
of the requirement to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence that the opening balances do not contain
misstatements that materially affect the current period’s financial statements.4
Comparative Financial Statements
15. When comparative financial statements are presented, the auditor’s opinion shall refer to each period for which
financial statements are presented and on which an audit opinion is expressed. (Ref: Para. A8-A9)
16. When reporting on prior period financial statements in connection with the current period’s audit, if the auditor’s
opinion on such prior period financial statements differs from the opinion the auditor previously expressed, the
auditor shall disclose the substantive reasons for the different opinion in an  Other Matter paragraph in accordance
with SLAuS 706.
5 (Ref: Para. A10)
Prior Period Financial Statements Audited by a Predecessor Auditor
17. If the financial statements of the prior period were audited by a predecessor auditor, in addition to expressing an
opinion on the current period’s financial statements, the auditor shall state in an Other Matter paragraph:
(a) that the financial statements of the prior period were audited by a predecessor auditor;
(b) the type of opinion expressed by the predecessor auditor and, if the opinion was modified, the reasons therefore;
and
(c) the date of that report,
unless the predecessor auditor’s report on the prior period’s financial statements is reissued with the financial
statements.
18. If the auditor concludes that a material misstatement exists that affects the prior period financial statements on which
the predecessor auditor had previously reported without modification, the auditor shall communicate the misstatement
with the appropriate level of management and, unless all of those charged with governance are involved in managing
the entity,
6 those charged with governance and request that the predecessor auditor be informed. If the prior period
financial statements are amended, and the predecessor auditor agrees to issue a new auditor’s report on the amended
financial statements of the prior period, the auditor shall report only on the current period. (Ref: Para. A11)
Prior Period Financial Statements Not Audited
19. If the prior period financial statements were not audited, the auditor shall state in an Other Matter paragraph that the
comparative financial statements are unaudited. Such a statement does not, however, relieve the auditor of the
requirement to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence that the opening balances do not contain misstatements
that materially affect the current period’s financial statements.
7
***
4 SLAuS 510, paragraph 6.
5 SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report,” paragraph 8.
6 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 13.
7 SLAuS 510, paragraph 6.

<!-- page 490 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
490A
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Audit Procedures
Written Representations (Ref: Para. 9)
A1. In the case of comparative financial statements, the written representations are requested for all periods referred to in
the auditor’s opinion because management needs to reaffirm that the written representations it previously made with
respect to the prior period remain appropriate. In the case of corresponding figures, the written representations are
requested for the financial statements of the current period only because the auditor’s opinion is on those financial
statements, which include the corresponding figures. However, the auditor requests a specific written representation
regarding any restatement made to correct a material misstatement in the prior period financial statements that affect
the comparative information.
Audit Reporting
Corresponding Figures
No Reference in Auditor’s Opinion (Ref: Para. 10)
A2. The auditor’s opinion does not refer to the corresponding figures because the auditor’s opinion is on the current
period financial statements as a whole, including the corresponding figures.
Modification in Auditor’s Report on the Prior Period Unresolved (Ref: Para. 11)
A3. When the auditor’s report on the prior period, as previously issued, included a qualified opinion, a disclaimer of
opinion, or an adverse opinion and the matter which gave rise to the modified opinion is resolved and properly
accounted for or disclosed in the financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework,
the auditor’s opinion on the current period need not refer to the previous modification.
A4. When the auditor’s opinion on the prior period, as previously expressed, was modified, the unresolved matter that
gave rise to the modification may not be relevant to the current period figures. Nevertheless, a qualified opinion, a
disclaimer of opinion, or an adverse opinion (as applicable) may be required on the current period’s financial statements
because of the effects or possible effects of the unresolved matter on the comparability of the current and corresponding
figures.
A5. Illustrative examples of the auditor’s report if the auditor’s report on the prior period included a modified opinion and
the matter giving rise to the modification is unresolved are contained in Illustrations 1 and 2 of the Appendix.
Misstatement in Prior Period Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 12)
A6. When the prior period financial statements that are misstated have not been amended and an auditor’s report has not
been reissued, but the corresponding figures have been properly restated or appropriate disclosures have been made
in the current period financial statements, the auditor’s report may include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph describing
the circumstances and referring to, where relevant, disclosures that fully describe the matter that can be found in the
financial statements (see SLAuS 706).
Prior Period Financial Statements Audited by a Predecessor Auditor (Ref: Para. 13)
A7. An illustrative example of the auditor’s report if the prior period financial statements were audited by a predecessor
auditor and the auditor is not prohibited by law or regulation from referring to the predecessor auditor’s report on the
corresponding figures is contained in Illustration 3 of the Appendix.

<!-- page 491 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
491A
Comparative Financial Statements
Reference in Auditor’s Opinion (Ref: Para. 15)
A8. Because the auditor’s report on comparative financial statements applies to the financial statements for each of the
periods presented, the auditor may express a qualified opinion or an adverse opinion, disclaim an opinion, or include
an Emphasis of Matter paragraph with respect to one or more periods, while expressing a different auditor’s opinion
on the financial statements of the other period.
A9. An illustrative example of the auditor’s report if the auditor is required to report on both the current and the prior
period financial statements in connection with the current year’s audit and the prior period included a modified
opinion and the matter giving rise to the modification is unresolved, is contained in Illustration 4 of the Appendix.
Opinion on Prior Period Financial Statements Different from Previous Opinion (Ref: Para. 16)
A10. When reporting on the prior period financial statements in connection with the current period’s audit, the opinion
expressed on the prior period financial statements may be different from the opinion previously expressed if the
auditor becomes aware of circumstances or events that materially affect the financial statements of a prior period
during the course of the audit of the current period. In some jurisdictions, the auditor may have additional reporting
responsibilities designed to prevent future reliance on the auditor’s previously issued report on the prior period
financial statements.
Prior Period Financial Statements Audited by a Predecessor Auditor (Ref: Para. 18)
A11. The predecessor auditor may be unable or unwilling to reissue the auditor’s report on the prior period financial
statements. An Other Matter paragraph of the auditor’s report may indicate that the predecessor auditor reported on
the financial statements of the prior period before amendment. In addition, if the auditor is engaged to audit and
obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence to be satisfied as to the appropriateness of the amendment, the auditor’s
report may also include the following paragraph:
As part of our audit of the 20X2 financial statements, we also audited the adjustments described in Note X that were
applied to amend the 20X1 financial statements. In our opinion, such adjustments are appropriate and have been
properly applied. We were not engaged to audit, review, or apply any procedures to the 20X1 financial statements of
the company other than with respect to the adjustments and, accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other
form of assurance on the 20X1 financial statements taken as a whole.
Appendix
Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports
Illustration 1 - Corresponding Figures (Ref: Para. A5)
Report illustrative of the circumstances described in paragraph 11(a), as follows:
• The auditor’s report on the prior period, as previously issued, included a qualified opinion.
• The matter giving rise to the modification is unresolved.
• The effects or possible effects of the matter on the current period’s figures are material and require a modification  to the
auditor’s opinion regarding the current period figures.
INDEPENDENT  AUDITOR’S   REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]

<!-- page 492 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
492A
Report on the Financial Statements8
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
9 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,10 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit
in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from
material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
11 of the financial statements
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
12 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified
audit opinion.
Basis for Qualified Opinion
As discussed in Note X to the financial statements, no depreciation has been provided in the financial statements,
which constitutes a departure from Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. This is the result of a decision taken by
management at the start of the preceding financial year and caused us to qualify our audit opinion on the financial
statements relating to that year. Based on the straight-line method of depreciation and annual rates of 5% for the
building and 20% for the equipment, the loss for the year should be increased by xxx in 20X1 and xxx in 20X0, property,
plant and equipment should be reduced by accumulated depreciation of xxx in 20X1 and xxx in 20X0, and the accumulated
loss should be increased by xxx in 20X1 and xxx in 20X0.
Qualified Opinion
In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph, the financial
statements present fairly, in all material  respects, (or give a true and fair view of ) the financial position of ABC
Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
8 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other L egal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
9 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
10 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such ...”
11 In the case of footnote 10, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are approp riate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.”
12 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to d esign
audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 10, this may read: “In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a tr ue and
fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 493 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
493A
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other reporting
responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 2 - Corresponding Figures (Ref: Para. A5)
Report illustrative of the circumstances described in paragraph 11(b), as follows:
• The auditor’s report on the prior period, as previously issued, included a qualified opinion.
• The matter giving rise to the modification is unresolved.
• The effects or possible effects of the matter on the current period’s figures are immaterial but require a modification
to the auditor’s opinion because of the effects or possible effects of the unresolved matter on the comparability of
the current period’s figures and the corresponding figures.
INDEPENDENT   AUDITOR’S   REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Financial Statements
13
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
14 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,15 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit
in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from
material misstatement.
13 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other L egal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
14 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
15 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such ...”

<!-- page 494 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
494A
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
16 of the financial statements
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
17 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified audit
opinion.
Basis for Qualified Opinion
Because we were appointed auditors of ABC Company during 20X0, we were not able to observe the counting of the
physical inventories at the beginning of that period or satisfy ourselves concerning those inventory quantities by
alternative means. Since opening inventories affect the determination of the results of operations, we were unable to
determine whether adjustments to the results of operations and opening retained earnings might be necessary for
20X0. Our audit opinion on the financial statements for the period ended December 31, 20X0 was modified accordingly.
Our opinion on the current period’s financial statements is also modified because of the possible effect of this matter
on the comparability of the current period’s figures and the corresponding figures.
Qualified Opinion
In our opinion, except for the possible effects on the corresponding figures of the matter described in the Basis for
Qualified Opinion paragraph, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair
view of) the financial position of ABC Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its
cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
DITING
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other reporting
responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 3 - Corresponding Figures (Ref: Para. A7)
Report illustrative of the circumstances described in paragraph 13, as follows:
• The prior period’s financial statements were audited by a predecessor auditor.
• The auditor is not prohibited by law or regulation from referring to the predecessor auditor’s report on
the corresponding figures and decides to do so.
INDEPENDENT   AUDITOR’S   REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
16 In the case of footnote 15, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are approp riate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.”
17 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to d esign
audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 15, this may read: “In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a tr ue and
fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 495 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
495A
Report on the Financial Statements18
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
19 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,20 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit
in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from
material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
21 of the financial statements
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
22 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair view of ) the
financial position of ABC Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its cash flows for
the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Other Matter
The financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X0, were audited by another auditor
who expressed an unmodified opinion on those statements on March 31, 20X1.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other reporting
responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
18 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other L egal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
19 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
20 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such ...”
21 In the case of footnote 20, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are approp riate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.”
22 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to d esign audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 20, this may read: “In making those risk assessm ents,
the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair v iew in order
to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 496 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
496A
llustration 4 - Comparative Financial Statements (Ref: Para. A9)
Report illustrative of the circumstances described in paragraph 15, as follows:
• Auditor is required to report on both the current period financial statements and the prior period financial
statements in connection with the current year’s audit.
• The auditor’s report on the prior period, as previously issued, included a qualified opinion.
• The matter giving rise to the modification is unresolved.
• The effects or possible effects of the matter on the current period’s figures are material to both the current period
financial statements and prior period financial statements and require a modification to the auditor’s opinion.
INDEPENDENT  AUDITOR’S   REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
Report on the Financial Statements
23
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheets as at
December 31, 20X1 and 20X0, and the income statements, statements of changes in equity and cash flow statements
for the years then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’ s
24 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards,25 and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’ s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our
audits in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
26 of the financial statements
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
27 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained in our audits is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our qualified audit opinion.
23 The sub-title “Report on the Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other L egal
and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.
24 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
25 Where management’s responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, this may read: “Management  is
responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards, and for such ...”
26 In the case of footnote 25, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o the
entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are approp riate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.”
27 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in con junction
with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the au ditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to d esign audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 25, this may read: “In making those risk assessm ents,
the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair v iew in order
to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 497 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
497A
Basis for Qualified Opinion
As discussed in Note X to the financial statements, no depreciation has been provided in the financial statements,
which constitutes a departure from Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. Based on the straight-line method of depreciation
and annual rates of 5% for the building and 20% for the equipment, the loss for the year should be increased by xxx
in 20X1 and xxx in 20X0, property, plant and equipment should be reduced by accumulated depreciation of xxx in 20X1
and xxx in 20X0, and the accumulated loss should be increased by xxx in 20X1 and xxx in 20X0.
Qualified Opinion
In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph, the financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair view of ) the financial position of ABC
Company as at December 31, 20X1 and 20X0 and (of) its financial performance and its cash flows for the years then
ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
[Form and content of this section of the auditor’s report will vary depending on the nature of the auditor’s other reporting
responsibilities.]
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]

<!-- page 498 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
SRI LANKA   AUDITING   STANDARD   720
THE AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO
OTHER INFORMATION IN DOCUMENTS CONTAINING
AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................           1-2
Effective Date  ......................................................................................              3
Objective ............................................................................................              4
Definitions ..........................................................................................              5
Requirements
Reading Other Information …...............................................................           6-7
Material Inconsistencies ......................................................................         8-13
Material Misstatements of Fact  ...........................................................       14-16
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Scope of this SLAuS . ..........................................................................     A1-A2
Definition of Other Information ..........................................................     A3-A4
Reading Other Information  ..................................................................           A5
Material Inconsistencies ......................................................................     A6-A9
Material Misstatements of Fact  ...........................................................A10-A11
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 720, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other
Information in Documents Containing Audited Financial Statements” should be read in
conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct
of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to other information in
documents containing audited financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon. In the absence of any separate
requirement in the particular circumstances of the engagement, the auditor’s opinion does not cover other information
and the auditor has no specific responsibility for determining whether or not other information is properly stated.
However, the auditor reads the other information because the credibility of the audited financial statements may be
undermined by material inconsistencies between the audited financial statements and other information. (Ref: Para.
A1)

<!-- page 499 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
2. In this SLAuS “documents containing audited financial statements” refers to annual reports (or similar documents),
that are issued to owners (or similar stakeholders), containing audited financial statements and the auditor’s report
thereon. This SLAuS may also be applied, adapted as necessary in the circumstances, to other documents containing
audited financial statements, such as those used in securities offerings.1 (Ref: Para. A2)
Effective Date
3. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
4. The objective of the auditor is to respond appropriately when documents containing audited financial statements
and the auditor’s report thereon include other information that could undermine the credibility of those financial
statements and the auditor’s report.
Definitions
5. For purposes of the SLAuSs the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Other information – Financial and non-financial information (other than the financial statements and the
auditor’s report thereon) which is included, either by law, regulation or custom, in a document containing
audited financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon. (Ref: Para. A3-A4)
(b) Inconsistency – Other information that contradicts information contained in the audited financial statements.
A material inconsistency may raise doubt about the audit conclusions drawn from audit evidence previously
obtained and, possibly, about the basis for the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements.
(c) Misstatement of fact – Other information that is unrelated to matters appearing in the audited financial
statements that is incorrectly stated or presented. A material misstatement of fact may undermine the credibility
of the document containing audited financial statements.
Requirements
Reading Other Information
6. The auditor shall read the other information to identify material inconsistencies, if any, with the audited financial
statements.
7. The auditor shall make appropriate arrangements with management or those charged with governance to obtain the
other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report. If it is not possible to obtain all the other information prior
to the date of the auditor’s report, the auditor shall read such other information as soon as practicable. (Ref: Para. A5)
Material Inconsistencies
8. If, on reading the other information, the auditor identifies a material inconsistency, the auditor shall determine
whether the audited financial statements or the other information needs to be revised.
1 See SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditin g
Standards,” paragraph 2.

<!-- page 500 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Material Inconsistencies Identified in Other Information Obtained Prior to the Date of the Auditor’ s Report
9. If revision of the audited financial statements is necessary and management refuses to make the revision, the auditor
shall modify the opinion in the auditor’s report in accordance with SLAuS 705.2
10. If revision of the other information is necessary and management refuses to make the revision, the auditor shall
communicate this matter to those charged with governance, unless all of those charged with governance are involved
in managing the entity;3 and
(a) Include in the auditor’s report an Other Matter(s) paragraph describing the material inconsistency in accordance
with SLAuS 706;4 or
(b) Withhold the auditor’s report; or
(c) Withdraw from the engagements, where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or regulation. (Ref: Para.
A6-A7)
Material Inconsistencies Identified in Other Information Obtained Subsequent to the Date of the Auditor’ s Report
11. If revision of the audited financial statements is necessary, the auditor shall follow the relevant requirements in
SLAuS 560.
5
12. If revision of the other information is necessary and management agrees to make the revision, the auditor shall carry
out the procedures necessary under the circumstances. (Ref: Para. A8)
13. If revision of the other information is necessary, but management refuses to make the revision, the auditor shall
notify those charged with governance, unless all of those charged with governance are involved in managing the
entity, of the auditor’s concern regarding the other information and take any further appropriate action. (Ref: Para. A9)
Material Misstatements of Fact
14. If, on reading the other information for the purpose of identifying material inconsistencies, the auditor becomes
aware of an apparent material misstatement of fact, the auditor shall discuss the matter with management. (Ref: Para.
A10)
15. If, following such discussions, the auditor still considers that there is an apparent material misstatement of fact, the
auditor shall request management to consult with a qualified third party, such as the entity’s legal counsel, and the
auditor shall consider the advice received.
16. If the auditor concludes that there is a material misstatement of fact in the other information which management
refuses to correct, the auditor shall notify those charged with governance, unless all of those charged with governance
are involved in managing the entity, of the auditor’s concern regarding the other information and take any further
appropriate action. (Ref: Para. A11)
***
2 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report.”
3 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance,” paragraph 13.
4 SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report,” paragraph 8.
5 SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events,” paragraphs 10-17.

<!-- page 501 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Scope of this SLAuS
Additional Responsibilities, through Statutory or Other Regulatory Requirements, in Relation to Other Information (Ref:
Para. 1)
A1. The auditor may have additional responsibilities, through statutory or other regulatory requirements, in relation to
other information that are beyond the scope of this SLAuS. For example, some jurisdictions may require the auditor
to apply specific procedures to certain of the other information such as required supplementary data or to express an
opinion on the reliability of performance indicators described in the other information. Where there are such obligations,
the auditor’s additional responsibilities are determined by the nature of the engagement and by law, regulation and
professional standards. If such other information is omitted or contains deficiencies, the auditor may be required by
law or regulation to refer to the matter in the auditor’s report.
Documents Containing Audited Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 2)
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities
A2. Unless required by law or regulation, smaller entities are less likely to issue documents containing audited financial
statements. However, an example of such a document would be where a legal requirement exists for an accompanying
report by those charged with governance. Examples of other information that may be included in a document containing
the audited financial statements of a smaller entity are a detailed income statement and a management report.
Definition of Other Information (Ref: Para. 5(a))
A3. Other information may comprise, for example:
* A report by management or those charged with governance on operations.
* Financial summaries or highlights.
* Employment data.
* Planned capital expenditures.
* Financial ratios.
* Names of officers and directors.
* Selected quarterly data.
A4. For purposes of the SLAuSs, other information does not encompass, for example:
* A press release or a transmittal memorandum, such as a covering letter, accompanying the document containing
audited financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon.
* Information contained in analyst briefings.
* Information contained on the entity’s website.

<!-- page 502 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Reading Other Information (Ref: Para. 7)
A5. Obtaining the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report enables the auditor to resolve possible
material inconsistencies and apparent material misstatements of fact with management on a timely basis. An agreement
with management as to when the other information will be available may be helpful.
Material Inconsistencies
Material Inconsistencies Identified in Other Information Obtained Prior to the Date of the Auditor’ s Report
(Ref: Para. 10)
A6. When management refuses to revise the other information, the auditor may base any decision on what further action
to take on advice from the auditor’s legal counsel.
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities
A7. In the public sector, withdrawal from the engagement or withholding the auditor’s report may not be options. In such
cases, the auditor may issue a report to the appropriate statutory body giving details of the inconsistency.
Material Inconsistencies Identified in Other Information Obtained Subsequent to the Date of the Auditor’ s Report (Ref:
Para. 12-13)
A8. When management agrees to revise the other information, the auditor’s procedures may include reviewing the steps
taken by management to ensure that individuals in receipt of the previously issued financial statements, the auditor’s
report thereon, and the other information are informed of the revision.
A9. When management refuses to make the revision of such other information that the auditor concludes is necessary,
appropriate further actions by the auditor may include obtaining advice from the auditor’s legal counsel.
Material Misstatements of Fact (Ref: Para. 14-16)
A10. When discussing an apparent material misstatement of fact with management, the auditor may not be able to evaluate
the validity of some disclosures included within the other information and management’s responses to the auditor’s
inquiries, and may conclude that valid differences of judgment or opinion exist.
A11. When the auditor concludes that there is a material misstatement of fact that management refuses to correct, appropriate
further actions by the auditor may include obtaining advice from the auditor’s legal counsel.

<!-- page 503 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 800
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS—AUDITS OF FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
SPECIAL PURPOSE FRAMEWORKS
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
  Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................                    1-3
Effective Date .......................................................................................                        4
Objective .............................................................................................                          5
Definitions ...........................................................................................                      6-7
Requirements
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement ...............................                  8
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit ..................             9-10
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations ............................             11-14
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Definition of Special Purpose Framework ..........................................              A1-A4
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement ...............................          A5-A8
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit ..................        A9-A12
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations ............................        A13-A15
Appendix: Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports on Special Purpose
                Financial Statements
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 800, “Special Considerations—Audits of
Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks”
should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent
Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. The Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) in the 100-700 series apply to an audit of financial statements. This
SLAuS deals with special considerations in the application of those SLAuSs to an audit of financial statements
prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework.
2. This SLAuS is written in the context of a complete set of financial statements prepared in accordance with a special
purpose framework. SLAuS 805
1 deals with special considerations relevant to an audit of a single financial statement
or of a specific element, account or item of a financial statement.
1 SLAuS 805, “Special Considerations —Audits of Single Financial Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts or Items of a Financi al
Statement.”

<!-- page 504 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
3. This SLAuS does not override the requirements of the other SLAuSs; nor does it purport to deal with all special
considerations that may be relevant in the circumstances of the engagement.
Effective Date
4. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
5. The objective of the auditor, when applying SLAuSs in an audit of financial statements prepared in accordance with
a special purpose framework, is to address appropriately the special considerations that are relevant to:
(a) The acceptance of the engagement;
(b) The planning and performance of that engagement; and
(c) Forming an opinion and reporting on the financial statements.
Definitions
6. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Special purpose financial statements – Financial statements prepared in accordance with a special purpose
framework. (Ref: Para. A4)
(b) Special purpose framework – A financial reporting framework designed to meet the financial information needs
of specific users. The financial reporting framework may be a fair presentation framework or a compliance
framework.
2 (Ref: Para. A1-A4)
7. Reference to “financial statements” in this SLAuS means “a complete set of special purpose financial statements,
including the related notes.” The related notes ordinarily comprise a summary of significant accounting policies and
other explanatory information. The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework determine the form
and content of the financial statements, and what constitutes a complete set of financial statements.
Requirements
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement
Acceptability of the Financial Reporting Framework
8. SLAuS 210 requires the auditor to determine the acceptability of the financial reporting framework applied in the
preparation of the financial statements.
3 In an audit of special purpose financial statements, the auditor shall obtain
an understanding of: (Ref: Para. A5-A8)
(a) The purpose for which the financial statements are prepared;
(b) The intended users; and
(c) The steps taken by management to determine that the applicable financial reporting framework is acceptable in
the circumstances.
2 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph 13(a).
3 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements,” paragraph 6(a).

<!-- page 505 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit
9. SLAuS 200 requires the auditor to comply with all SLAuSs relevant to the audit.4 In planning and performing an audit
of special purpose financial statements, the auditor shall determine whether application of the SLAuSs requires
special consideration in the circumstances of the engagement. (Ref: Para. A9-A12)
10. SLAuS 315 requires the auditor to obtain an understanding of the entity’s selection and application of accounting
policies.5 In the case of financial statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of a contract, the auditor
shall obtain an understanding of any significant interpretations of the contract that management made in the preparation
of those financial statements. An interpretation is significant when adoption of another reasonable interpretation
would have produced a material difference in the information presented in the financial statements.
ITING
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations
11. When forming an opinion and reporting on special purpose financial statements, the auditor shall apply the
requirements in SLAuS 700.6 (Ref: Para. A13)
Description of the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework
12. SLAuS 700 requires the auditor to evaluate whether the financial statements adequately refer to or describe the
applicable financial reporting framework.
7 In the case of financial statements prepared in accordance with the provisions
of a contract, the auditor shall evaluate whether the financial statements adequately describe any significant
interpretations of the contract on which the financial statements are based.
13. SLAuS 700 deals with the form and content of the auditor’s report. In the case of an auditor’s report on special
purpose financial statements:
(a) The auditor’s report shall also describe the purpose for which the financial statements are prepared and, if
necessary, the intended users, or refer to a note in the special purpose financial statements that contains that
information; and
(b) If management has a choice of financial reporting frameworks in the preparation of such financial statements,
the explanation of management’s8 responsibility for the financial statements shall also make reference to its
responsibility for determining that the applicable financial reporting framework is acceptable in the
circumstances.
Alerting Readers that the Financial Statements Are Prepared in Accordance with a Special Purpose Framework
14. The auditor’s report on special purpose financial statements shall include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph alerting
users of the auditor’s report that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework
and that, as a result, the financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose. The auditor shall include this
paragraph under an appropriate heading. (Ref: Para. A14-A15)
***
4 SLAuS 200, paragraph 18.
5 SLAuS 315, “Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment,”
paragraph 11(c).
6 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements.”
7 SLAuS 700, paragraph 15.

<!-- page 506 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Definition of Special Purpose Framework (Ref: Para. 6)
A1. Examples of special purpose frameworks are:
· A tax basis of accounting for a set of financial statements that accompany an entity’s tax return;
· The cash receipts and disbursements basis of accounting for cash flow information that an entity may be requested
to prepare for creditors;
· The financial reporting provisions established by a regulator to meet the requirements of that regulator; or
· The financial reporting provisions of a contract, such as a bond indenture, a loan agreement, or a project grant.
A2. There may be circumstances where a special purpose framework is based on a financial reporting framework established
by an authorized or recognized standards setting organization or by law or regulation, but does not comply with all
the requirements of that framework. An example is a contract that requires financial statements to be prepared in
accordance with most, but not all, of the Financial Reporting Standards of Jurisdiction X. When this is acceptable
in the circumstances of the engagement, it is inappropriate for the description of the applicable financial reporting
framework in the special purpose financial statements to imply full compliance with the financial reporting framework
established by the authorized or recognized standards setting organization or by law or regulation. In the above
example of the contract, the description of the applicable financial reporting framework may refer to the financial
reporting provisions of the contract, rather than make any reference to the Financial Reporting Standards of
Jurisdiction X.
A3. In the circumstances described in paragraph A2, the special purpose framework may not be a fair presentation
framework even if the financial reporting framework on which it is based is a fair presentation framework. This is
because the special purpose framework may not comply with all the requirements of the financial reporting framework
established by the authorized or recognized standards setting organization or by law or regulation that are necessary
to achieve fair presentation of the financial statements.
A4. Financial statements prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework may be the only financial statements
an entity prepares. In such circumstances, those financial statements may be used by users other than those for
whom the financial reporting framework is designed. Despite the broad distribution of the financial statements in
those circumstances, the financial statements are still considered to be special purpose financial statements for
purposes of the SLAuSs. The requirements in paragraphs 13-14 are designed to avoid misunderstandings about the
purpose for which the financial statements are prepared.
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement
Acceptability of the Financial Reporting Framework (Ref: Para. 8)
A5. In the case of special purpose financial statements, the financial information needs of the intended users are a key
factor in determining the acceptability of the financial reporting framework applied in the preparation of the financial
statements.
8 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 507 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
A6. The applicable financial reporting framework may encompass the financial reporting standards established by an
organization that is authorized or recognized to promulgate standards for special purpose financial statements. In
that case, those standards will be presumed acceptable for that purpose if the organization follows an established
and transparent process involving deliberation and consideration of the views of relevant stakeholders. In some
jurisdictions, law or regulation may prescribe the financial reporting framework to be used by management in the
preparation of special purpose financial statements for a certain type of entity. For example, a regulator may establish
financial reporting provisions to meet the requirements of that regulator. In the absence of indications to the
contrary, such a financial reporting framework is presumed acceptable for special purpose financial statements
prepared by such entity.
A7. Where the financial reporting standards referred to in paragraph A6 are supplemented by legislative or regulatory
requirements, SLAuS 210 requires the auditor to determine whether any conflicts between the financial reporting
standards and the additional requirements exist, and prescribes actions to be taken by the auditor if such conflicts
exist.
9
A8. The applicable financial reporting framework may encompass the financial reporting provisions of a contract, or
sources other than those described in paragraphs A6 and A7. In that case, the acceptability of the financial
reporting framework in the circumstances of the engagement is determined by considering whether the framework
exhibits attributes normally exhibited by acceptable financial reporting frameworks as described in Appendix 2 of
SLAuS 210. In the case of a special purpose framework, the relative importance to a particular engagement of each
of the attributes normally exhibited by acceptable financial reporting frameworks is a matter of professional judgment.
For example, for purposes of establishing the value of net assets of an entity at the date of its sale, the vendor and
the purchaser may have agreed that very prudent estimates of allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable are
appropriate for their needs, even though such financial information is not neutral when compared with financial
information prepared in accordance with a general purpose framework.
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit (Ref: Para. 9)
A9. SLAuS 200 requires the auditor to comply with (a) relevant ethical requirements, including those pertaining to
independence, relating to financial statement audit engagements, and (b) all SLAuSs relevant to the audit. It also
requires the auditor to comply with each requirement of a SLAuS unless, in the circumstances of the audit, the entire
SLAuS is not relevant or the requirement is not relevant because it is conditional and the condition does not exist.
In exceptional circumstances, the auditor may judge it necessary to depart from a relevant requirement in a SLAuS
by performing alternative audit procedures to achieve the aim of that requirement.
10
A10.Application of some of the requirements of the SLAuSs in an audit of special purpose financial statements may
require special consideration by the auditor. For example, in SLAuS 320, judgments about matters that are material
to users of the financial statements are based on a consideration of the common financial information needs of users
as a group.
11 In the case of an audit of special purpose financial statements, however, those judgments are based on
a consideration of the financial information needs of the intended users.
A11. In the case of special purpose financial statements, such as those prepared in accordance with the requirements of
a contract, management may agree with the intended users on a threshold below which misstatements identified
during the audit will not be corrected or otherwise adjusted. The existence of such a threshold does not relieve the
auditor from the requirement to determine materiality in accordance with SLAuS 320 for purposes of planning and
performing the audit of the special purpose financial statements.
A12.Communication with those charged with governance in accordance with SLAuSs is based on the relationship
between those charged with governance and the financial statements subject to audit, in particular, whether those
charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the preparation of those financial statements. In the case
of special purpose financial statements, those charged with governance may not have such a responsibility; for
9 SLAuS 210, paragraph 18.
10 SLAuS 200, paragraphs 14, 18 and 22-23.
11 SLAuS 320, “Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit,” paragraph 2.
12 SLAuS 260, “Communication with Those Charged with Governance.”

<!-- page 508 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
example, when the financial information is prepared solely for management’s use. In such cases, the requirements of
SLAuS 26012 may not be relevant to the audit of the special purpose financial statements, except when the auditor
is also responsible for the audit of the entity’s general purpose financial statements or, for example, has agreed with
those charged with governance of the entity to communicate to them relevant matters identified during the audit of
the special purpose financial statements.
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations (Ref: Para. 11)
A13.The Appendix to this SLAuS contains illustrations of auditors’ reports on special purpose financial statements.
Alerting Readers that the Financial Statements Are Prepared in Accordance with a Special Purpose Framework (Ref:
Para. 14)
A14.The special purpose financial statements may be used for purposes other than those for which they were intended.
For example, a regulator may require certain entities to place the special purpose financial statements on public
record. To avoid misunderstandings, the auditor alerts users of the auditor’s report that the financial statements are
prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework and, therefore, may not be suitable for another purpose.
Restriction on Distribution or Use (Ref: Para. 14)
A15. In addition to the alert required by paragraph 14, the auditor may consider it appropriate to indicate that the auditor’s
report is intended solely for the specific users. Depending on the law or regulation of the particular jurisdiction, this
may be achieved by restricting the distribution or use of the auditor’s report. In these circumstances, the paragraph
referred to in paragraph 14 may be expanded to include these other matters, and the heading modified accordingly.
Appendix
(Ref: Para. A13)
Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports on Special Purpose Financial
Statements
* Illustration 1: An auditor’s report on a complete set of financial statements prepared in accordance with the
financial reporting provisions of a contract (for purposes of this illustration, a compliance framework).
* Illustration 2: An auditor’s report on a complete set of financial statements prepared in accordance with the
tax basis of accounting in Jurisdiction X (for purposes of this illustration, a compliance framework).
* Illustration 3: An auditor’s report on a complete set of financial statements prepared in accordance with the
financial reporting provisions established by a regulator (for purposes of this illustration, a fair presentation
framework).
AUDITING
Illustration 1:
Circumstances include the following:
· The financial statements have been prepared by management of the entity in accordance with the financial
reporting provisions of a contract (that is, a special purpose framework) to comply with the provisions of that contract.
Management does not have a choice of financial reporting frameworks.
· The applicable financial reporting framework is a compliance framework.
· The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
· Distribution and use of the auditor’s report are restricted.

<!-- page 509 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then
ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The financial statements have
been prepared by management of ABC Company based on the financial reporting provisions of Section Z of the contract
dated January 1, 20X1 between ABC Company and DEF Company (“the contract”).
Management’s
13 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of these financial statements in accordance with the financial
reporting provisions of Section Z of the contract, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s
internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness
of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1 are prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with the financial reporting provisions of Section Z of the contract.
Basis of Accounting and Restriction on Distribution and Use
Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note X to the financial statements, which describes the basis
of accounting. The financial statements are prepared to assist ABC Company to comply with the financial reporting provisions
of the contract referred to above. As a result, the financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose. Our report is
intended solely for ABC Company and DEF Company and should not be distributed to or used by parties other than ABC
Company or DEF Company.
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
13 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 510 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Illustration 2:
Circumstances include the following:
* The financial statements have been prepared by management of a partnership in accordance with the tax basis
of accounting in Jurisdiction X (that is, a special purpose framework) to assist the partners in preparing their
individual income tax returns. Management does not have a choice of financial reporting frameworks.
* The applicable financial reporting framework is a compliance framework.
* The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
* Distribution of the auditor’s report is restricted.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Partnership, which comprise the balance sheet as
at December 31, 20X1 and the income statement for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies
and other explanatory information. The financial statements have been prepared by management using the tax basis of
accounting in Jurisdiction X.
Management’s
14 Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of these financial statements in accordance with the tax basis of
accounting in Jurisdiction X, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation
of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor
considers internal control relevant to the partnership’s preparation of the financial statements in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
of the partnership’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and
the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the
financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements of ABC Partnership for the year ended December 31, 20X1 are prepared, in all material
respects, in accordance with [describe the applicable income tax law] of Jurisdiction X.
14 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
15 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 511 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Basis of Accounting and Restriction on Distribution
Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note X to the financial statements, which describes the basis of
accounting. The financial statements are prepared to assist the partners of ABC Partnership in preparing their individual
income tax returns. As a result, the financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose. Our report is intended solely
for ABC Partnership and its partners and should not be distributed to parties other than ABC Partnership or its partners.
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 3:
Circumstances include the following:
* The financial statements have been prepared by management of the entity in accordance with the financial
reporting provisions established by a regulator (that is, a special purpose framework) to meet the requirements of that
regulator. Management does not have a choice of financial reporting frameworks.
* The applicable financial reporting framework is a fair presentation framework.
* The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
* Distribution or use of the auditor’s report is not restricted.
* The Other Matter paragraph refers to the fact that the auditor has also issued an auditor’s report on financial
statements prepared by ABC Company for the same period in accordance with a general purpose framework.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the balance sheet as at
December 31, 20X1, and the income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then
ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The financial statements have
been prepared by management based on the financial reporting provisions of Section Y of Regulation Z.
Management’s
15Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance
with the financial reporting provisions of Section Y of Regulation Z,16 and for such internal control as management determines
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud
or error.
16 Where management’s  responsibility is to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view, his may read: “Management
is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial repo rting
provisions of section Y of Regulation Z, and for such …”
17 In the case of footnote 16, this may read: “In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant t o
the entity’s preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are

<!-- page 512 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation
17 of the financial statements in order to
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
18 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of
the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair view of) the
financial position of ABC Company as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its cash flows for the year
then ended in accordance with the financial reporting provisions of Section Y of Regulation Z.
Basis of Accounting
Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note X to the financial statements, which describes the basis
of accounting. The financial statements are prepared to assist ABC Company to meet the requirements of Regulator DEF. As
a result, the financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose.
Other Matter
ABC Company has prepared a separate set of financial statements for the year ended December 31, 20X1 in
accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards on which we issued a separate auditor’s report to the shareholders of ABC
Company dated March 31, 20X2.
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s interna l
control.”
18 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in
conjunction with the audit of the financial statements, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessm ents,
the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s  preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in
order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.” In the case of footnote 16, this may read: “In mak ing
those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements tha t give
a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 513 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 805
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS—AUDITS OF SINGLE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SPECIFIC
ELEMENTS, ACCOUNTS OR ITEMS OF A FINANCIAL STATEMENT
(Effective for audits for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ...........................................................................          1-3
Effective Date ......................................................................................                             4
Objective .............................................................................................                             5
Definitions ...........................................................................................                             6
Requirements
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement ...............................                          7-9
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit ..................            10
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations ............................       11-17
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Scope of this SLAuS ..........................................................................     A1-A4
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement..............................     A5-A9
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit.................. A10-A14
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations ............................ A15-A18
Appendix 1: Examples of Specific Elements, Accounts or Items of a
     Financial Statement
Appendix 2: Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports on a Single Financial
   Statement and on a Specific Element of a Financial Statement
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 805, “Special Considerations—Audits of Single
Financial Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts or Items of a Financial Statement”
should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent
Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.”
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. The Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) in the 100-700 series apply to an audit of financial statements and are to
be adapted as necessary in the circumstances when applied to audits of other historical financial information. This
SLAuS deals with special considerations in the application of those SLAuSs to an audit of a single financial statement
or of a specific element, account or item of a financial statement. The single financial statement or the specific element,
account or item of a financial statement may be prepared in accordance with a general or special purpose framework.
If prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework, SLAuS 800
1 also applies to the audit. (Ref: Para. A1-A4)
2. This SLAuS does not apply to the report of a component auditor, issued as a result of work performed on the financial
information of a component at the request of a group engagement team for purposes of an audit of group financial
statements (see SLAuS 600
2).
1 SLAuS 800, “Special Considerations—Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks.”
2 SLAuS 600, “Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors).”

<!-- page 514 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
3. This SLAuS does not override the requirements of the other SLAuSs; nor does it purport to deal with all special
considerations that may be relevant in the circumstances of the engagement.
Effective Date
4. This SLAuS is effective for audits of single financial statements or of specific elements, accounts or items for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014. In the case of audits of single financial statements or of specific elements,
accounts or items of a financial statement prepared as at a specific date, this SLAuS is effective for audits of such
information prepared as at a date on or after 01 January 2014.
Objective
5. The objective of the auditor, when applying SLAuSs in an audit of a single financial statement or of a specific element,
account or item of a financial statement, is to address appropriately the special considerations that are relevant to:
(a) The acceptance of the engagement;
(b)  The planning and performance of that engagement; and
(c) Forming an opinion and reporting on the single financial statement or on the specific element, account or item
of a financial statement.
Definitions
6. For purposes of this SLAuS, reference to:
(a) “Element of a financial statement” or “element” means an “element, account or item of a financial statement;”
(b) “Sri Lanka Accounting Standards” means the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka; and
(c) A single financial statement or to a specific element of a financial statement includes the related notes. The
related notes ordinarily comprise a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
information relevant to the financial statement or to the element.
Requirements
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement
Application of SLAuSs
7. SLAuS 200 requires the auditor to comply with all SLAuSs relevant to the audit.
3 In the case of an audit of a single
financial statement or of a specific element of a financial statement, this requirement applies irrespective of whether
the auditor is also engaged to audit the entity’s complete set of financial statements. If the auditor is not also engaged
to audit the entity’s complete set of financial statements, the auditor shall determine whether the audit of a single
financial statement or of a specific element of those financial statements in accordance with SLAuSs is practicable.
(Ref: Para. A5-A6)
3 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards,” paragraph 18.

<!-- page 515 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Acceptability of the Financial Reporting Framework
8. SLAuS 210 requires the auditor to determine the acceptability of the financial reporting framework applied in the
preparation of the financial statements.4 In the case of an audit of a single financial statement or of a specific element
of a financial statement, this shall include whether application of the financial reporting framework will result in a
presentation that provides adequate disclosures to enable the intended users to understand the information conveyed
in the financial statement or the element, and the effect of material transactions and events on the information
conveyed in the financial statement or the element. (Ref: Para. A7)
Form of Opinion
9. SLAuS 210 requires that the agreed terms of the audit engagement include the expected form of any reports to be
issued by the auditor.
5 In the case of an audit of a single financial statement or of a specific element of a financial
statement, the auditor shall consider whether the expected form of opinion is appropriate in the circumstances. (Ref:
Para. A8-A9)
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit
10. SLAuS 200 states that SLAuSs are written in the context of an audit of financial statements; they are to be adapted
as necessary in the circumstances when applied to audits of other historical financial information.
6 7 In planning and
performing the audit of a single financial statement or of a specific element of a financial statement, the auditor shall
adapt all SLAuSs relevant to the audit as necessary in the circumstances of the engagement. (Ref: Para. A10-A14)
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations
11. When forming an opinion and reporting on a single financial statement or on a specific element of a financial
statement, the auditor shall apply the requirements in SLAuS 700,8 adapted as necessary in the circumstances of the
engagement. (Ref: Para. A15-A16)
Reporting on the Entity’ s Complete Set of Financial Statements and on a Single Financial Statement or on a Specific
Element of Those Financial Statements
12. If the auditor undertakes an engagement to report on a single financial statement or on a specific element of a
financial statement in conjunction with an engagement to audit the entity’s complete set of financial statements, the
auditor shall express a separate opinion for each engagement.
13. An audited single financial statement or an audited specific element of a financial statement may be published
together with the entity’s audited complete set of financial statements. If the auditor concludes that the presentation
of the single financial statement or of the specific element of a financial statement does not differentiate it sufficiently
from the complete set of financial statements, the auditor shall ask management to rectify the situation. Subject to
paragraphs 15 and 16, the auditor shall also differentiate the opinion on the single financial statement or on the
specific element of a financial statement from the opinion on the complete set of financial statements. The auditor
shall not issue the auditor’s report containing the opinion on the single financial statement or on the specific element
of a financial statement until satisfied with the differentiation.
4 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements,” paragraph 6(a).
5 SLAuS 210, paragraph 10(e).
6 SLAuS 200, paragraph 2.
7 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(f), explains that the term “financial statements” ordinarily refers to a complete set of financial
statements as determined by the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework.

<!-- page 516 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Modified Opinion, Emphasis of Matter Paragraph or Other Matter Paragraph in the Auditor’s Report on the Entity’s Complete
Set of Financial Statements
14. If the opinion in the auditor’s report on an entity’s complete set of financial statements is modified, or that report
includes an Emphasis of Matter paragraph or an Other Matter paragraph, the auditor shall determine the effect that
this may have on the auditor’s report on a single financial statement or on a specific element of those financial
statements. When deemed appropriate, the auditor shall modify the opinion on the single financial statement or on
the specific element of a financial statement, or include an Emphasis of Matter paragraph or an Other Matter paragraph
in the auditor’s report, accordingly. (Ref: Para. A17)
15. If the auditor concludes that it is necessary to express an adverse opinion or disclaim an opinion on the entity’s
complete set of financial statements as a whole, SLAuS 705 does not permit the auditor to include in the same
auditor’s report an unmodified opinion on a single financial statement that forms part of those financial statements or
on a specific element that forms part of those financial statements.
9 This is because such an unmodified opinion
would contradict the adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion on the entity’s complete set of financial statements as
a whole. (Ref: Para. A18)
16. If the auditor concludes that it is necessary to express an adverse opinion or disclaim an opinion on the entity’s
complete set of financial statements as a whole but, in the context of a separate audit of a specific element that is
included in those financial statements, the auditor nevertheless considers it appropriate to express an unmodified
opinion on that element, the auditor shall only do so if:
(a) The auditor is not prohibited by law or regulation from doing so;
(b) That opinion is expressed in an auditor’s report that is not published together with the auditor’s report containing the
adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion; and
(c) The specific element does not constitute a major portion of the entity’s complete set of financial statements.
17. The auditor shall not express an unmodified opinion on a single financial statement of a complete set of financial
statements if the auditor has expressed an adverse opinion or disclaimed an opinion on the complete set of financial
statements as a whole. This is the case even if the auditor’s report on the single financial statement is not published
together with the auditor’s report containing the adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion. This is because a single
financial statement is deemed to constitute a major portion of those financial statements.
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Scope of this SLAuS (Ref: Para. 1)
A1. SLAuS 200 defines the term “historical financial information” as information expressed in financial terms in relation
to a particular entity, derived primarily from that entity’s accounting system, about economic events occurring in past
time periods or about economic conditions or circumstances at points in time in the past.
10
A2. SLAuS 200 defines the term “financial statements” as a structured representation of historical financial information,
including related notes, intended to communicate an entity’s economic resources or obligations at a point in time or
the changes therein for a period of time in accordance with a financial reporting framework. The term ordinarily refers
to a complete set of financial statements as determined by the requirements of the applicable financial reporting
framework.
11
8 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements.”
9 SLAuS 705, “Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report,” paragraph 15.
10 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(g).
11 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(f).

<!-- page 517 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
A3. SLAuSs are written in the context of an audit of financial statements; 12 they are to be adapted as necessary in the
circumstances when applied to an audit of other historical financial information, such as a single financial statement
or a specific element of a financial statement. This SLAuS assists in this regard. (Appendix 1 lists examples of such
other historical financial information.)
A4. A reasonable assurance engagement other than an audit of historical financial information is performed in accordance
with Sri Lanka Standard on Assurance Engagements (SLSAE) 3000.
13
Considerations When Accepting the Engagement
Application of SLAuSs (Ref: Para. 7)
A5. SLAuS 200 requires the auditor to comply with (a) relevant ethical requirements, including those pertaining to
independence, relating to financial statement audit engagements, and (b) all SLAuSs relevant to the audit. It also
requires the auditor to comply with each requirement of a SLAuS unless, in the circumstances of the audit, the entire
SLAuS is not relevant or the requirement is not relevant because it is conditional and the condition does not exist. In
exceptional circumstances, the auditor may judge it necessary to depart from a relevant requirement in an SLAuS by
performing alternative audit procedures to achieve the aim of that requirement.
14
A6. Compliance with the requirements of SLAuSs relevant to the audit of a single financial statement or of a specific
element of a financial statement may not be practicable when the auditor is not also engaged to audit the entity’s
complete set of financial statements. In such cases, the auditor often does not have the same understanding of the
entity and its environment, including its internal control, as an auditor who also audits the entity’s complete set of
financial statements. The auditor also does not have the audit evidence about the general quality of the accounting
records or other accounting information that would be acquired in an audit of the entity’s complete set of financial
statements. Accordingly, the auditor may need further evidence to corroborate audit evidence acquired from the
accounting records. In the case of an audit of a specific element of a financial statement, certain SLAuSs require audit
work that may be disproportionate to the element being audited. For example, although the requirements of SLAuS
570
15 are likely to be relevant in the circumstances of an audit of a schedule of accounts receivable, complying with
those requirements may not be practicable because of the audit effort required. If the auditor concludes that an audit
of a single financial statement or of a specific element of a financial statement in accordance with SLAuSs may not be
practicable, the auditor may discuss with management whether another type of engagement might be more practicable.
Acceptability of the Financial Reporting Framework (Ref: Para. 8)
A7. A single financial statement or a specific element of a financial statement may be prepared in accordance with an
applicable financial reporting framework that is based on a financial reporting framework established by an authorized
or recognized standards setting organization for the preparation of a complete set of financial statements (for example,
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards). If this is the case, determination of the acceptability of the applicable framework
may involve considering whether that framework includes all the requirements of the framework on which it is based
that are relevant to the presentation of a single financial statement or of a specific element of a financial statement that
provides adequate disclosures.
Form of Opinion (Ref: Para. 9)
A8. The form of opinion to be expressed by the auditor depends on the applicable financial reporting framework and any
applicable laws or regulations.
16  In accordance with SLAuS 700:17
(a) When expressing an unmodified opinion on a complete set of financial statements prepared in accordance with
a fair presentation framework, the auditor’s opinion, unless otherwise required by law or regulation, uses one of
the following phrases: (i) the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with [the
applicable financial reporting framework]; or (ii) the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance
with [the applicable financial reporting framework]; and
12 SLAuS 200, paragraph 2.
13 SLSAE 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information.”
14 SLAuS 200, paragraphs 14, 18 and 22-23.
15 SLAuS 570, “Going Concern.”

<!-- page 518 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
(b) When expressing an unmodified opinion on a complete set of financial statements prepared in accordance with
a compliance framework, the auditor’s opinion states that the financial statements are prepared, in all material
respects, in accordance with [the applicable financial reporting framework].
A9. In the case of a single financial statement or of a specific element of a financial statement, the applicable financial
reporting framework may not explicitly address the presentation of the financial statement or of the element. This may
be the case when the applicable financial reporting framework is based on a financial reporting framework established
by an authorized or recognized standards setting organization for the preparation of a complete set of financial
statements (for example, Sri Lanka Accounting Standards). The auditor therefore considers whether the expected
form of opinion is appropriate in the light of the applicable financial reporting framework. Factors that may affect the
auditor’s consideration as to whether to use the phrases “presents fairly, in all material respects,” or “gives a true and
fair view” in the auditor’s opinion include:
∗ Whether the applicable financial reporting framework is explicitly or implicitly restricted to the preparation of a
complete set of financial statements.
∗ Whether the single financial statement or the specific element of a financial statement will:
* Comply fully with each of those requirements of the framework relevant to the particular financial statement
or the particular element, and the presentation of the financial statement or the element include the related
notes.
* If necessary to achieve fair presentation, provide disclosures beyond those specifically required by the
framework or, in exceptional circumstances, depart from a requirement of the framework.
The auditor’s decision as to the expected form of opinion is a matter of professional judgment. It may be affected by
whether use of the phrases “presents fairly, in all material respects,” or “gives a true and fair view” in the auditor’s
opinion on a single financial statement or on a specific element of a financial statement prepared in accordance with
a fair presentation framework is generally accepted in the particular jurisdiction.
Considerations When Planning and Performing the Audit (Ref: Para. 10)
A10. The relevance of each of the SLAuSs requires careful consideration. Even when only a specific element of a
financial statement is the subject of the audit, SLAuSs such as SLAuS 240,
18 SLAuS 55019 and SLAuS 570 are, in
principle, relevant. This is because the element could be misstated as a result of fraud, the effect of related party
transactions, or the incorrect application of the going concern assumption under the applicable financial reporting
framework.
A11. Furthermore, SLAuSs are written in the context of an audit of financial statements; they are to be adapted as
necessary in the circumstances when applied to the audit of a single financial statement or of a specific element of
a financial statement.
20 For example, written representations from management about the complete set of financial
statements would be replaced by written representations about the presentation of the financial statement or the
element in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
A12. When auditing a single financial statement or a specific element of a financial statement in conjunction with the
audit of the entity’s complete set of financial statements, the auditor may be able to use audit evidence obtained as
part of the audit of the entity’s complete set of financial statements in the audit of the financial statement or the
element. SLAuSs, however, require the auditor to plan and perform the audit of the financial statement or element
to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the opinion on the financial statement or on the
element.
16 SLAuS 200, paragraph 8.
17 SLAuS 700, paragraph 35-36.
18 SLAuS 240, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements.”
19 SLAuS 550, “Related Parties.”

<!-- page 519 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
A13. The individual financial statements that comprise a complete set of financial statements, and many of the elements
of those financial statements, including their related notes, are interrelated. Accordingly, when auditing a single
financial statement or a specific element of a financial statement, the auditor may not be able to consider the
financial statement or the element in isolation. Consequently, the auditor may need to perform procedures in
relation to the interrelated items to meet the objective of the audit.
A14. Furthermore, the materiality determined for a single financial statement or for a specific element of a financial
statement may be lower than the materiality determined for the entity’s complete set of financial statements; this will
affect the nature, timing and extent of the audit procedures and the evaluation of uncorrected misstatements.
Forming an Opinion and Reporting Considerations (Ref: Para. 11)
A15. SLAuS 700 requires the auditor, in forming an opinion, to evaluate whether the financial statements provide adequate
disclosures to enable the intended users to understand the effect of material transactions and events on the
information conveyed in the financial statements.
21 In the case of a single financial statement or of a specific element
of a financial statement, it is important that the financial statement or the element, including the related notes, in view
of the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework, provides adequate disclosures to enable the
intended users to understand the information conveyed in the financial statement or the element, and the effect of
material transactions and events on the information conveyed in the financial statement or the element.
A16. Appendix 2 of this SLAuS contains illustrations of auditors’ reports on a single financial statement and on a specific
element of a financial statement.
Modified Opinion, Emphasis of Matter Paragraph or Other Matter Paragraph in the Auditor’ s Report on the Entity’ s
Complete Set of Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 14-15)
A17. Even when the modified opinion on the entity’s complete set of financial statements, Emphasis of Matter paragraph
or Other Matter paragraph does not relate to the audited financial statement or the audited element, the auditor may
still deem it appropriate to refer to the modification in an Other Matter paragraph in an auditor’s report on the
financial statement or on the element because the auditor judges it to be relevant to the users’ understanding of the
audited financial statement or the audited element or the related auditor’s report (see SLAuS 706).
22
A18. In the auditor’s report on an entity’s complete set of financial statements, the expression of a disclaimer of opinion
regarding the results of operations and cash flows, where relevant, and an unmodified opinion regarding the
financial position is permitted since the disclaimer of opinion is being issued in respect of the results of operations
and cash flows only and not in respect of the financial statements as a whole. 23
Appendix 1
(Ref: Para. A3)
Examples of Specific Elements, Accounts or Items of a Financial Statement
∗ Accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, inventory, the liability for accrued benefits
of a private pension plan, the recorded value of identified intangible assets, or the liability for “incurred but
not reported” claims in an insurance portfolio, including related notes.
∗ A schedule of externally managed assets and income of a private pension plan, including related notes.
∗ A schedule of net tangible assets, including related notes.
∗ A schedule of disbursements in relation to a lease property, including explanatory notes.
∗ A schedule of profit participation or employee bonuses, including explanatory notes.
20 SLAuS 200, paragraph 2.
21 SLAuS 700, paragraph 13(e).
22 SLAuS 706, “Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report,
” paragraph 6.
23 SLAuS 510, “Initial Audit Engagements—Opening Balances,” paragraph A8, and SLAuS 705, paragraph A16.

<!-- page 520 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Appendix 2
(Ref: Para. A16)
Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports on a Single Financial Statement and on a Specific Element of a Financial Statement
∗ Illustration 1: An auditor’s report on a single financial statement prepared in accordance with a general purpose
framework (for purposes of this illustration, a fair presentation framework).
∗ Illustration 2: An auditor’s report on a single financial statement prepared in accordance with a special purpose
framework (for purposes of this illustration, a fair presentation framework).
∗ Illustration 3: An auditor’s report on a specific element, account or item of a financial statement prepared in accordance
with a special purpose framework (for purposes of this illustration, a compliance framework).
Illustration 1:
Circumstances include the following:
∗∗∗∗∗ Audit of a balance sheet (that is, a single financial statement).
∗∗∗∗∗ The balance sheet has been prepared by management of the entity in accordance with the requirements of the
Financial Reporting Framework in Jurisdiction X relevant to preparing a balance sheet.
∗∗∗∗∗ The applicable financial reporting framework is a fair presentation framework designed to meet the common
financial information needs of a wide range of users.
∗∗∗∗∗ The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
∗∗∗∗∗ The auditor has determined that it is appropriate to use the phrase “presents fairly, in all material respects,” in
the auditor’s opinion.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of ABC Company as at December 31, 20X1 and a summary of significant
accounting policies and other explanatory information (together “the financial statement”).
Management’s
24 Responsibility for the Financial Statement
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of this financial statement in accordance with those
requirements of the Financial Reporting Framework in Jurisdiction X relevant to preparing such a financial statement, and for
such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statement that is free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
24 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 521 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statement based on our audit. We conducted our audit
in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statement is free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statement. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statement in order to
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
25 An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates, if any, made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
presentation of the financial statement.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statement presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of ABC Company
as at December 31, 20X1 in accordance with those requirements of the Financial Reporting Framework in Jurisdiction X
relevant to preparing such a financial statement.
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 2:
Circumstances include the following:
••••• Audit of a statement of cash receipts and disbursements (that is, a single financial statement).
••••• The financial statement has been prepared by management of the entity in accordance with the cash receipts and
disbursements basis of accounting to respond to a request for cash flow information received from a creditor.
Management has a choice of financial reporting frameworks.
••••• The applicable financial reporting framework is a fair presentation framework designed to meet the financial
information needs of specific users.
26
••••• The auditor has determined that it is appropriate to use the phrase “presents fairly, in all material respects,” in
the auditor’s opinion.
••••• Distribution or use of the auditor’s report is not restricted.
25 In circumstances when the auditor also has responsibility to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control in c onjunction
with the audit of the financial statement, this sentence would be worded as follows: “In making those risk assessments, the aud itor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statement in order to de sign audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.”

<!-- page 522 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
We have audited the accompanying statement of cash receipts and disbursements of ABC Company for the year
ended December 31, 20X1 and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (together “the
financial statement”). The financial statement has been prepared by management using the cash receipts and disbursements
basis of accounting described in Note X.
Management’s
27 Responsibility for the Financial Statement
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of this financial statement in accordance with
the cash receipts and disbursements basis of accounting described in Note X; this includes determining that the cash
receipts and disbursements basis of accounting is an acceptable basis for the preparation of the financial statement in the
circumstances, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the
financial statement that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statement based on our audit. We conducted our audit
in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statement is free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statement. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statement in order to
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates, if any, made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
presentation of the financial statement.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statement presents fairly, in all material respects, the cash receipts and disbursements
of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1 in accordance with the cash receipts and disbursements basis of
accounting described in Note X.
Basis of Accounting
Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note X to the financial statement, which describes the basis
of accounting. The financial statement is prepared to provide information to XYZ Creditor. As a result, the statement may not
be suitable for another purpose.
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
26 SLAuS 800 contains requirements and guidance on the form and content of financial statements prepared in accordance with a
special purpose framework.
27 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 523 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Illustration 3:
Circumstances include the following:
∗∗∗∗∗ Audit of the liability for “incurred but not reported” claims in an insurance portfolio (that is, element, account
or item of a financial statement).
∗∗∗∗∗ The financial information has been prepared by management of the entity in accordance with the financial
reporting provisions established by a regulator to meet the requirements of that regulator. Management does
not have a choice of financial reporting frameworks.
∗∗∗∗∗ The applicable financial reporting framework is a compliance framework designed to meet the financial
information needs of specific users.
28
∗∗∗∗∗ The terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’s responsibility for the financial
statements in SLAuS 210.
∗∗∗∗∗ Distribution of the auditor’s report is restricted.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
[Appropriate Addressee]
We have audited the accompanying schedule of the liability for “incurred but not reported” claims of ABC Insurance
Company as at December 31, 20X1 (“the schedule”). The schedule has been prepared by management based on [describe the
financial reporting provisions established by the regulator].
Management’s
29 Responsibility for the Schedule
Management is responsible for the preparation of the schedule in accordance with [describe the financial reporting
provisions established by the regulator], and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of the schedule that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the schedule based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance
with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the schedule is free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
schedule. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the schedule, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal
control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the schedule in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit
also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the schedule.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial information in the schedule of the liability for “incurred but not reported” claims of ABC
Insurance Company as at December 31, 20X1 is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with [describe the financial
reporting provisions established by the regulator].
Basis of Accounting and Restriction on Distribution
Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note X to the schedule, which describes the basis of accounting.
The schedule is prepared to assist ABC Insurance Company to meet the requirements of Regulator DEF. As a result, the
schedule may not be suitable for another purpose. Our report is intended solely for ABC Insurance Company and Regulator
DEF and should not be distributed to parties other than ABC Insurance Company or Regulator DEF.
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
28 SLAuS 800 contains requirements and guidance on the form and content of financial statements prepared in accordance with a
special purpose framework.
29 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 524 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 810
ENGAGEMENTS TO REPORT ON SUMMARY FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Effective for engagements for periods
beginning on or after 01 January 2014)
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS ............................................................................           1
Effective Date .......................................................................................           2
Objectives ............................................................................................           3
Definitions ...........................................................................................          4
Requirements
Engagement Acceptance ......................................................................        5-7
Nature of Procedures ............................................................................           8
Form of Opinion ...................................................................................       9-11
Timing of Work and Events Subsequent to the Date of the Auditor’s
Report on the Audited Financial Statements .............................    12-13
Auditor’s Report on Summary Financial Statements ...........................    14-19
Restriction on Distribution or Use or Alerting Readers to the Basis of
Accounting .................................................................................         20
Comparatives ........................................................................................    21-22
Unaudited Supplementary Information Presented with Summary
Financial Statements .................................................................         23
Other Information in Documents Containing Summary Financial
Statements ..................................................................................         24
Auditor Association .............................................................................    25-26
Application and Other Explanatory Material
Engagement Acceptance ...................................................................... A1-A7
Evaluating the Availability of the Audited Financial Statements ........        A8
Form of Opinion ..................................................................................        A9
Timing of Work and Events Subsequent to the Date of the Auditor’s
Report on the Audited Financial Statements .......................................       A10
Auditor’s Report on Summary Financial Statements ...........................                   A11-A15
Comparatives ........................................................................................                        A16-A17
Unaudited Supplementary Information Presented with Summary
Financial Statements ..................................................................       A18
Other Information in Documents Containing Summary Financial
Statements ..................................................................................       A19
Auditor Association .............................................................................       A20
Appendix: Illustrations of Reports on Summary Financial Statements
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810, “Engagements to Report on Summary Financial
Statements” should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the
Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards.”

<!-- page 525 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Introduction
Scope of this SLAuS
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to an engagement to
report on summary financial statements derived from financial statements audited in accordance with SLAuSs by that
same auditor.
Effective Date
2. This SLAuS is effective for engagements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
Objectives
3. The objectives of the auditor are:
(a) To determine whether it is appropriate to accept the engagement to report on summary financial statements; and
(b)  If engaged to report on summary financial statements:
(i) To form an opinion on the summary financial statements based on an evaluation of the conclusions drawn
from the evidence obtained; and
(ii) To express clearly that opinion through a written report that also describes the basis for that opinion.
Definitions
4. For purposes of this SLAuS, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:
(a) Applied criteria – The criteria applied by management in the preparation of the summary financial statements.
(b) Audited financial statements – Financial statements
1 audited by the auditor in accordance with SLAuSs, and
from which the summary financial statements are derived.
(c) Summary financial statements – Historical financial information that is derived from financial statements but that
contains less detail than the financial statements, while still providing a structured representation consistent
with that provided by the financial statements of the entity’s economic resources or obligations at a point in time
or the changes therein for a period of time.
2 Different jurisdictions may use different terminology to describe
such historical financial information.
Requirements
Engagement Acceptance
5. The auditor shall accept an engagement to report on summary financial statements in accordance with this SLAuS
only when the auditor has been engaged to conduct an audit in accordance with SLAuSs of the financial statements
from which the summary financial statements are derived. (Ref: Para. A1)
6. Before accepting an engagement to report on summary financial statements, the auditor shall: (Ref: Para. A2)
(a) Determine whether the applied criteria are acceptable; (Ref: Para. A3-A7)
(b) Obtain the agreement of management that it acknowledges and understands its responsibility:
(i) For the preparation of the summary financial statements in accordance with the applied criteria;
1 SLAuS 200, “Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with     Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards,” paragraph 13(f), defines the term “financial statements.”
2 SLAuS 200, paragraph 13(f).

<!-- page 526 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
(ii) To make the audited financial statements available to the intended users of the summary financial statements
without undue difficulty (or, if law or regulation provides that the audited financial statements need not be
made available to the intended users of the summary financial statements and establishes the criteria for
the preparation of the summary financial statements, to describe that law or regulation in the summary
financial statements); and
(iii) To include the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements in any document that contains the
summary financial statements and that indicates that the auditor has reported on them.
(c) Agree with management the form of opinion to be expressed on the summary financial statements (see paragraphs
9-11).
7. If the auditor concludes that the applied criteria are unacceptable or is unable to obtain the agreement of management
set out in paragraph 6(b), the auditor shall not accept the engagement to report on the summary financial statements,
unless required by law or regulation to do so. An engagement conducted in accordance with such law or regulation
does not comply with this SLAuS. Accordingly, the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements shall not
indicate that the engagement was conducted in accordance with this SLAuS. The auditor shall include appropriate
reference to this fact in the terms of the engagement. The auditor shall also determine the effect that this may have on
the engagement to audit the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are derived.
Nature of Procedures
8. The auditor shall perform the following procedures, and any other procedures that the auditor may consider necessary,
as the basis for the auditor’s opinion on the summary financial statements:
(a) Evaluate whether the summary financial statements adequately disclose their summarized nature and identify
the audited financial statements.
(b) When summary financial statements are not accompanied by the audited financial statements, evaluate
whether they describe clearly:
(i) From whom or where the audited financial statements are available; or
(ii) The law or regulation that specifies that the audited financial statements need not be made available
to the intended users of the summary financial statements and establishes the criteria for the preparation
of the summary financial statements.
(c) Evaluate whether the summary financial statements adequately disclose the applied criteria.
(d) Compare the summary financial statements with the related information in the audited financial statements to
determine whether the summary financial statements agree with or can be recalculated from the related
information in the audited financial statements.
(e) Evaluate whether the summary financial statements are prepared in accordance with the applied criteria.
(f) Evaluate, in view of the purpose of the summary financial statements, whether the summary financial statements
contain the information necessary, and are at an appropriate level of aggregation, so as not to be misleading
in the circumstances.
(g) Evaluate whether the audited financial statements are available to the intended users of the summary financial
statements without undue difficulty, unless law or regulation provides that they need not be made available
and establishes the criteria for the preparation of the summary financial statements. (Ref: Para. A8)

<!-- page 527 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Form of Opinion
9. When the auditor has concluded that an unmodified opinion on the summary financial statements is appropriate, the
auditor’s opinion shall, unless otherwise required by law or regulation, use one of the following phrases: (Ref: Para.
A9)
(a) The summary financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, with the audited financial statements,
in accordance with [the applied criteria]; or
(b) The summary financial statements are a fair summary of the audited financial statements, in accordance with [the
applied criteria].
10. If law or regulation prescribes the wording of the opinion on summary financial statements in terms that are different
from those described in paragraph 9, the auditor shall:
(a) Apply the procedures described in paragraph 8 and any further procedures necessary to enable the auditor to
express the prescribed opinion; and
(b) Evaluate whether users of the summary financial statements might misunderstand the auditor’s opinion on the
summary financial statements and, if so, whether additional explanation in the auditor’s report on the summary
financial statements can mitigate possible misunderstanding.
11. If, in the case of paragraph 10(b), the auditor concludes that additional explanation in the auditor’s report on the
summary financial statements cannot mitigate possible misunderstanding, the auditor shall not accept the engagement,
unless required by law or regulation to do so. An engagement conducted in accordance with such law or regulation
does not comply with this SLAuS. Accordingly, the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements shall not
indicate that the engagement was conducted in accordance with this SLAuS.
Timing of Work and Events Subsequent to the Date of the Auditor’s Report on the Audited Financial Statements
12. The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements may be dated later than the date of the auditor’s report on
the audited financial statements. In such cases, the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements shall state
that the summary financial statements and audited financial statements do not reflect the effects of events that
occurred subsequent to the date of the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements that may require adjustment
of, or disclosure in, the audited financial statements. (Ref: Para. A10)
13. The auditor may become aware of facts that existed at the date of the auditor’s report on the audited financial
statements, but of which the auditor previously was unaware. In such cases, the auditor shall not issue the auditor’s
report on the summary financial statements until the auditor’s consideration of such facts in relation to the audited
financial statements in accordance with SLAuS 560
3 has been completed.
Auditor’s Report on Summary Financial Statements
Elements of the Auditor’ s Report
14. The auditor’s report on summary financial statements shall include the following elements:4 (Ref: Para. A15)
(a) A title clearly indicating it as the report of an independent auditor.
(Ref: Para. A11)
(b) An addressee. (Ref: Para. A12)
4 Paragraphs 17-18, which deal with circumstances where the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements has been modifie d,
require additional elements to those listed in this paragraph.
3 SLAuS 560, “Subsequent Events.”

<!-- page 528 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
(c) An introductory paragraph that:
(i) Identifies the summary financial statements on which the auditor is reporting, including the title of each
statement included in the summary financial statements; (Ref: Para. A13)
(ii) Identifies the audited financial statements;
(iii) Refers to the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements, the date of that report, and, subject to
paragraphs 17-18, the fact that an unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements;
(iv) If the date of the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is later than the date of the
auditor’s report on the audited financial statements, states that the summary financial statements and the
audited financial statements do not reflect the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of
the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements; and
(v) A statement indicating that the summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required
by the financial reporting framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements, and
that reading the summary financial statements is not a substitute for reading the audited financial
statements.
(d)  A description of management’s
5 responsibility for the summary financial statements, explaining that management6
is responsible for the preparation of the summary financial statements in accordance with the applied criteria.
(e) A statement that the auditor is responsible for expressing an opinion on the summary financial statements
based on the procedures required by this SLAuS.
(f) A paragraph clearly expressing an opinion (see paragraphs 9-11).
(g)  The auditor’s signature.
(h) The date of the auditor’s report. (Ref: Para. A14)
(i)  The auditor’s address.
15. If the addressee of the summary financial statements is not the same as the addressee of the auditor’s report on the
audited financial statements, the auditor shall evaluate the appropriateness of using a different addressee. (Ref: Para.
A12)
16. The auditor shall date the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements no earlier than: (Ref: Para. A14)
(a) The date on which the auditor has obtained sufficient appropriate evidence on which to base the opinion, including
evidence that the summary financial statements have been prepared and those with the recognized authority have
asserted that they have taken responsibility for them; and
(b) The date of the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements.
Modifications to the Opinion, Emphasis of Matter Paragraph or Other Matter Paragraph in the Auditor’ s Report on the
Audited Financial Statements (Ref: Para. A15)
5 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
6 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 529 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
17. When the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements contains a qualified opinion, an Emphasis of Matter
paragraph, or an Other Matter paragraph, but the auditor is satisfied that the summary financial statements are
consistent, in all material respects, with or are a fair summary of the audited financial statements, in accordance with
the applied criteria, the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements shall, in addition to the elements in
paragraph 14:
(a) State that the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements contains a qualified opinion, an Emphasis of
Matter paragraph, or an Other Matter paragraph; and
(b) Describe:
(i) The basis for the qualified opinion on the audited financial statements, and that qualified opinion; or the
Emphasis of Matter or the Other Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report on the audited financial
statements; and
(ii) The effect thereof on the summary financial statements, if any.
18. When the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements contains an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion,
the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements shall, in addition to the elements in paragraph 14:
(a) State that the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements contains an adverse opinion or disclaimer of
opinion;
(b) Describe the basis for that adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion; and
(c) State that, as a result of the adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, it is inappropriate to express an opinion on
the summary financial statements.
Modified Opinion on the Summary Financial Statements
19. If the summary financial statements are not consistent, in all material respects, with or are not a fair summary of the
audited financial statements, in accordance with the applied criteria, and management does not agree to make the
necessary changes, the auditor shall express an adverse opinion on the summary financial statements. (Ref: Para.
A15)
Restriction on Distribution or Use or Alerting Readers to the Basis of Accounting
20. When distribution or use of the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements is restricted, or the auditor’s
report on the audited financial statements alerts readers that the audited financial statements are prepared in
accordance with a special purpose framework, the auditor shall include a similar restriction or alert in the auditor’s
report on the summary financial statements.
Comparatives
21. If the audited financial statements contain comparatives, but the summary financial statements do not, the auditor
shall determine whether such omission is reasonable in the circumstances of the engagement. The auditor shall
determine the effect of an unreasonable omission on the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements. (Ref:
Para. A16)
22. If the summary financial statements contain comparatives that were reported on by another auditor, the auditor’s
report on the summary financial statements shall also contain the matters that SLAuS 710 requires the auditor to
include in the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements.
7 (Ref: Para. A17)
Unaudited Supplementary Information Presented with Summary Financial Statements

<!-- page 530 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
23. The auditor shall evaluate whether any unaudited supplementary information presented with the summary financial
statements is clearly differentiated from the summary financial statements. If the auditor concludes that the entity’s
presentation of the unaudited supplementary information is not clearly differentiated from the summary financial
statements, the auditor shall ask management to change the presentation of the unaudited supplementary information.
If management refuses to do so, the auditor shall explain in the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements
that such information is not covered by that report. (Ref: Para. A18)
Other Information in Documents Containing Summary Financial Statements
24. The auditor shall read other information included in a document containing the summary financial statements and
related auditor’s report to identify material inconsistencies, if any, with the summary financial statements. If, on
reading the other information, the auditor identifies a material inconsistency, the auditor shall determine whether the
summary financial statements or the other information needs to be revised. If, on reading the other information, the
auditor becomes aware of an apparent material misstatement of fact, the auditor shall discuss the matter with
management. (Ref: Para. A19)
Auditor Association
25. If the auditor becomes aware that the entity plans to state that the auditor has reported on summary financial
statements in a document containing the summary financial statements, but does not plan to include the related
auditor’s report, the auditor shall request management to include the auditor’s report in the document. If management
does not do so, the auditor shall determine and carry out other appropriate actions designed to prevent management
from inappropriately associating the auditor with the summary financial statements in that document. (Ref: Para.
A20)
26. The auditor may be engaged to report on the financial statements of an entity, while not engaged to report on the
summary financial statements. If, in this case, the auditor becomes aware that the entity plans to make a statement
in a document that refers to the auditor and the fact that summary financial statements are derived from the financial
statements audited by the auditor, the auditor shall be satisfied that:
(a) The reference to the auditor is made in the context of the auditor’s report on the audited financial statements;
and
(b) The statement does not give the impression that the auditor has reported on the summary financial statements.
If (a) or (b) are not met, the auditor shall request management to change the statement to meet them, or not to refer
to the auditor in the document. Alternatively, the entity may engage the auditor to report on the summary financial
statements and include the related auditor’s report in the document.  If management does not change the statement,
delete the reference to the auditor, or include an auditor’s report on the summary financial statements in the
document containing the summary financial statements, the auditor shall advise management that the auditor
disagrees with the reference to the auditor, and the auditor shall determine and carry out other appropriate actions
designed to prevent management from inappropriately referring to the auditor. (Ref: Para. A20)
***
Application and Other Explanatory Material
7 SLAuS 710, “Comparative Information —Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements.”

<!-- page 531 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Engagement Acceptance (Ref: Para. 5-6)
A1. The audit of the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are derived provides the auditor
with the necessary knowledge to discharge the auditor’s responsibilities in relation to the summary financial statements
in accordance with this SLAuS. Application of this SLAuS will not provide sufficient appropriate evidence on which
to base the opinion on the summary financial statements if the auditor has not also audited the financial statements
from which the summary financial statements are derived.
A2. Management’s agreement with the matters described in paragraph 6 may be evidenced by its written acceptance of
the terms of the engagement.
Criteria (Ref: Para. 6(a))
A3. The preparation of summary financial statements requires management to determine the information that needs to be
reflected in the summary financial statements so that they are consistent, in all material respects, with or represent a
fair summary of the audited financial statements. Because summary financial statements by their nature contain
aggregated information and limited disclosure, there is an increased risk that they may not contain the information
necessary so as not to be misleading in the circumstances. This risk increases when established criteria for the
preparation of summary financial statements do not exist.
A4. Factors that may affect the auditor’s determination of the acceptability of the applied criteria include:
∗ The nature of the entity;
∗ The purpose of the summary financial statements;
• AUDITING
∗ The information needs of the intended users of the summary financial statements; and
∗ Whether the applied criteria will result in summary financial statements that are not misleading in the
circumstances.
A5. The criteria for the preparation of summary financial statements may be established by an authorized or recognized
standards setting organization or by law or regulation. Similar to the case of financial statements, as explained in
SLAuS 210,
8 in many such cases, the auditor may presume that such criteria are acceptable.
A6. Where established criteria for the preparation of summary financial statements do not exist, criteria may be developed
by management, for example, based on practice in a particular industry. Criteria that are acceptable in the circumstances
will result in summary financial statements that:
(a) Adequately disclose their summarized nature and identify the audited financial statements;
(b) Clearly describe from whom or where the audited financial statements are available or, if law or regulation
provides that the audited financial statements need not be made available to the intended users of the
summary financial statements and establishes the criteria for the preparation of the summary financial statements,
that law or regulation;
(c) Adequately disclose the applied criteria;
(d) Agree with or can be recalculated from the related information in the audited financial statements; and
(e) In view of the purpose of the summary financial statements, contain the information necessary, and are at an
appropriate level of aggregation, so as not to be misleading in the circumstances.
8 SLAuS 210, “Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements,” paragraphs A3 and A8-A9.

<!-- page 532 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
A7. Adequate disclosure of the summarized nature of the summary financial statements and the identity of the audited
financial statements, as referred to in paragraph A6(a), may, for example, be provided by a title such as “Summary
Financial Statements Prepared from the Audited Financial Statements for the Year Ended December 31, 20X1.”
Evaluating the Availability of the Audited Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 8(g))
A8. The auditor’s evaluation whether the audited financial statements are available to the intended users of the summary
financial statements without undue difficulty is affected by factors such as whether:
∗ The summary financial statements describe clearly from whom or where the audited financial statements are
available;
∗ The audited financial statements are on public record; or
∗ Management has established a process by which the intended users of the summary financial statements
can obtain ready access to the audited financial statements.
Form of Opinion (Ref: Para. 9)
A9. A conclusion, based on an evaluation of the evidence obtained by performing the procedures in paragraph 8, that an
unmodified opinion on the summary financial statements is appropriate enables the auditor to express an opinion
containing one of the phrases in paragraph 9. The auditor’s decision as to which of the phrases to use may be affected
by generally accepted practice in the particular jurisdiction.
Timing of Work and Events Subsequent to the Date of the Auditor’s Report on the Audited Financial Statements (Ref: Para.
12)
A10. The procedures described in paragraph 8 are often performed during or immediately after the audit of the financial
statements. When the auditor reports on the summary financial statements after the completion of the audit of the
financial statements, the auditor is not required to obtain additional audit evidence on the audited financial statements,
or report on the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of the auditor’s report on the audited financial
statements since the summary financial statements are derived from the audited financial statements and do not
update them.
Auditor’s Report on Summary Financial Statements
Elements of the Auditor’ s Report
Title (Ref: Para. 14(a))
A11. A title indicating the report is the report of an independent auditor, for example, “Report of the Independent Auditor,”
affirms that the auditor has met all of the relevant ethical requirements regarding independence. This distinguishes
the report of the independent auditor from reports issued by others.
Addressee (Ref: Para. 14(b), 15)
A12. Factors that may affect the auditor’s evaluation of the appropriateness of the addressee of the summary financial
statements include the terms of the engagement, the nature of the entity, and the purpose of the summary financial
statements.
AUDITING
Introductory Paragraph (Ref: Para. 14(c)(i))
A13. When the auditor is aware that the summary financial statements will be included in a document that contains other
information, the auditor may consider, if the form of presentation allows, identifying the page numbers on which the
summary financial statements are presented. This helps readers to identify the summary financial statements to which
the auditor’s report relates.
Date of the Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 14(h), 16)

<!-- page 533 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
A14. The person or persons with recognized authority to conclude that the summary financial statements have been
prepared and take responsibility for them depend on the terms of the engagement, the nature of the entity, and the
purpose of the summary financial statements.
Illustrations (Ref: Para.14, 17-18, 19)
A15. The Appendix to this SLAuS contains illustrations of auditors’ reports on summary financial statements that:
(a) Contain unmodified opinions;
(b) Are derived from audited financial statements on which the auditor issued modified opinions; and
(c) Contain a modified opinion.
Comparatives (Ref: Para. 21-22)
A16. If the audited financial statements contain comparatives, there is a presumption that the summary financial statements
also would contain comparatives. Comparatives in the audited financial statements may be regarded as corresponding
figures or as comparative financial information. SLAuS 710 describes how this difference affects the auditor’s report
on the financial statements, including, in particular, reference to other auditors who audited the financial statements
for the prior period.
A17. Circumstances that may affect the auditor’s determination whether an omission of comparatives is reasonable include
the nature and objective of the summary financial statements, the applied criteria, and the information needs of the
intended users of the summary financial statements.
Unaudited Supplementary Information Presented with Summary Financial
Statements (Ref: Para. 23)
A18. SLAuS 700
9 contains requirements and guidance to be applied when unaudited supplementary information is presented
with audited financial statements that, adapted as necessary in the circumstances, may be helpful in applying the
requirement in paragraph 23.
Other Information in Documents Containing Summary Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 24)
A19. SLAuS 720
10 contains requirements and guidance relating to reading other information included in a document
containing the audited financial statements and related auditor’s report, and responding to material inconsistencies
and material misstatements of fact. Adapted as necessary in the circumstances, they may be helpful in applying the
requirement in paragraph 24.
Auditor Association (Ref: Para. 25-26)
A20. Other appropriate actions the auditor may take when management does not take the requested action may include
informing the intended users and other known third-party users of the inappropriate reference to the auditor. The
auditor’s course of action depends on the auditor’s legal rights and obligations. Consequently, the auditor may
consider it appropriate to seek legal advice.
9 SLAuS 700, “Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements,” paragraphs 46-47.
10 SLAuS 720, “The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information in Documents Containing Audited Financial Statements.”

<!-- page 534 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Appendix
(Ref: Para. A15)
Illustrations of Reports on Summary Financial Statements
∗ Illustration 1: An auditor’s report on summary financial statements prepared in accordance with established
criteria. An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements. The auditor’s report on the
summary financial statements is dated later than the date of the auditor’s report on the financial statements from
which summary financial statements are derived.
∗ Illustration 2: An auditor’s report on summary financial statements prepared in accordance with criteria developed
by management and adequately disclosed in the summary financial statements. The auditor has determined that
the applied criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited
financial statements.
∗ Illustration 3: An auditor’s report on summary financial statements prepared in accordance with criteria developed
by management and adequately disclosed in the summary financial statements. The auditor has determined that
the applied criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. A qualified opinion is expressed on the audited financial
statements.
∗ Illustration 4: An auditor’s report on summary financial statements prepared in accordance with criteria developed
by management and adequately disclosed in the summary financial statements. The auditor has determined that
the applied criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. An adverse opinion is expressed on the audited financial
statements.
∗ Illustration 5: An auditor’s report on summary financial statements prepared in accordance with established
criteria. An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements. The auditor concludes that it is
not possible to express an unmodified opinion on the summary financial statements.
Illustration 1:
Circumstances include the following:
∗ An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements.
∗ Established criteria for the preparation of summary financial statements exist.
∗ The auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated later than the date of the auditor’s report on
the financial statements from which the summary financial statements are derived.
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
[Appropriate Addressee]
The accompanying summary financial statements, which comprise the summary balance sheet as at December 31,
20X1, the summary income statement, summary statement of changes in equity and summary cash flow statement for the year
then ended, and related notes, are derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended
December 31, 20X1. We expressed an unmodified audit opinion on those financial statements in our report dated February 15,
20X2. Those financial statements, and the summary financial statements, do not reflect the effects of events that occurred
subsequent to the date of our report on those financial statements.
11 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 535 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
The summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by [describe financial reporting
framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements of ABC Company]. Reading the summary financial
statements, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial statements of ABC Company.
Management’s
11 Responsibility for the Summary Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of a summary of the audited financial statements in accordance with
[describe established criteria].
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the summary financial statements based on our procedures, which
were conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810, “Engagements to Report on Summary Financial
Statements.”
Opinion
In our opinion, the summary financial statements derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company for
the year ended December 31, 20X1 are consistent,  in all material respects, with (or a fair summary of ) those financial
statements, in accordance with [describe established criteria].
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 2:
Circumstances include the following:
* An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements.
* Criteria are developed by management and adequately disclosed in Note X. The auditor has determined that the
criteria are acceptable in the circumstances.
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
[Appropriate Addressee]
The accompanying summary financial statements, which comprise the summary balance sheet as at December 31,
20X1, the summary income statement, summary statement of changes in equity and summary cash flow statement for the year
then ended, and related notes, are derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended
December 31, 20X1. We expressed an unmodified audit opinion on those financial statements in our report dated February 15,
20X2.
12
The summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by [describe financial reporting
framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements of ABC Company]. Reading the summary financial
statements, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial statements of ABC Company.
Management’s
13 Responsibility for the Summary Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of a summary of the audited financial statements on the basis
described in Note X.
12 When th e auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated later than the date of the auditor ’s report on the audited
financial statements from which it is derived, the following sentence is added to this paragraph: “Those financial statements, and
the summary financial statements, do not reflect the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our report on th ose
financial statements.”
13 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 536 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the summary financial statements based on our procedures, which
were conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810, “Engagements to Report on Summary Financial
Statements.”
Opinion
In our opinion, the summary financial statements derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company for
the year ended December 31, 20X1 are consistent, in all material respects, with (or a fair summary of ) those financial
statements, on the basis described in Note X.
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 3:
Circumstances include the following:
• A qualified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements.
• Criteria are developed by management and adequately disclosed in Note X. The auditor has determined that the
criteria are acceptable in the circumstances.
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
[Appropriate Addressee]
The accompanying summary financial statements, which comprise the summary balance sheet as at December 31,
20X1, the summary income statement, summary statement of changes in equity and summary cash flow statement for the year
then ended, and related notes, are derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended
December 31, 20X1.
14 We expressed a qualified audit opinion on those financial statements in our report dated February 15,
20X2 (see below).
The summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by [describe financial reporting
framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements of ABC Company]. Reading the summary financial
statements, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial statements of ABC Company.
Management’s15 Responsibility for the Summary Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of a summary of the audited financial statements on the basis
described in Note X.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the summary financial statements based on our procedures, which
were conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810, “Engagements to Report on Summary Financial
Statements.”
Opinion
In our opinion, the summary financial statements derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company for
the year ended December 31, 20X1 are consistent, in all material respects, with (or a fair summary of ) those financial
statements, on the basis described in Note X. However, the summary financial statements are misstated to the equivalent
extent as the audited financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1.
14 When the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated later than the date of the auditor’s report on the audit ed
financial statements from which it is derived, the following sentence is added to this paragraph: “Those financial statements, and
the summary financial statements, do not reflect the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our report on th ose
financial statements.”
15 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 537 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
The misstatement of the audited financial statements is described in our qualified audit opinion in our report dated
February 15, 20X2. Our qualified audit opinion is based on the fact that the company’s inventories are carried in the balance
sheet in those financial statements at xxx. Management has not stated the inventories at the lower of cost and net realizable
value but has stated them solely at cost, which constitutes a departure from Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. The company’s
records indicate that had management stated the inventories at the lower of cost and net realizable value, an amount of xxx
would have been required to write the inventories down to their net realizable value. Accordingly, cost of sales would have
been increased by xxx, and income tax, net income and shareholders’ equity would have been reduced by xxx, xxx and xxx,
respectively. Our qualified audit opinion states that, except for the effects of the described matter, those financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, (or give a true and fair view of) the financial position of ABC Company as at December
31, 20X1, and (of) its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards.
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 4:
Circumstances include the following:
· An adverse opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements.
· Criteria are developed by management and adequately disclosed in Note X. The auditor has determined that the
criteria are acceptable in the circumstances.
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
[Appropriate Addressee]
The accompanying summary financial statements, which comprise the summary balance sheet as at December 31,
20X1, the summary income statement, summary statement of changes in equity and summary cash flow statement for the year
then ended, and related notes, are derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended
December 31, 20X1.16
The summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by [describe financial reporting
framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements of ABC Company]. Reading the summary financial
statements, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial statements of ABC Company.
Management’s17 Responsibility for the Summary Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of a summary of the audited financial statements on the basis
described in Note X.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the summary financial statements based on our procedures, which
were conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810, “Engagements to Report on Summary Financial
Statements.”
Denial of Opinion
In our report dated February 15, 20X2, we expressed an adverse audit opinion on the financial statements of ABC
Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1. The basis for our adverse audit opinion was [describe basis for adverse
audit opinion]. Our adverse audit opinion stated that [describe adverse audit opinion].
16 When the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated later than the date of the auditor’s report on the audit ed
financial statements from which it is derived, the following sentence is added to this paragraph: “Those financial statements, and
the summary financial statements, do not reflect the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our report on th ose
financial statements.”
17 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

<!-- page 538 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Because of the significance of the matter discussed above, it is inappropriate to express an opinion on the summary
financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1.
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
Illustration 5:
Circumstances include the following:
• An unmodified opinion is expressed on the audited financial statements.
• Established criteria for the preparation of summary financial statements exist.
• The auditor concludes that it is not possible to express an unmodified opinion on the summary financial
statements.
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
[Appropriate Addressee]
The accompanying summary financial statements, which comprise the summary balance sheet as at December
31, 20X1, the summary income statement, summary statement of changes in equity and summary cash flow statement for the
year then ended, and related notes, are derived from the audited financial statements of ABC Company for the year ended
December 31, 20X1. We expressed an unmodified audit opinion on those financial statements in our report dated February
15, 20X2.
18
The summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by [describe financial reporting
framework applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements of ABC Company]. Reading the summary financial
statements, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial statements of ABC Company.
Management’s19 Responsibility for the Summary Audited Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of a summary of the audited financial statements in accordance with
[describe established criteria].
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the summary financial statements based on our procedures, which
were conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 810, “Engagements to Report on Summary Financial
Statements.”
Basis for Adverse Opinion
[Describe matter that caused the summary financial statements not to be consistent, in all material respects, with (or a fair
summary of) the audited financial statements, in accordance with the applied criteria.]
Adverse Opinion
In our opinion, because of the significance of the matter discussed in the Basis for Adverse Opinion paragraph, the summary
financial statements referred to above are not consistent with (or a fair summary of) the audited financial statements of ABC
Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1, in accordance with [describe established criteria].
[Auditor’s signature]
[Date of the auditor’s report]
[Auditor’s address]
18 When the auditor’s report on the summary financial statements is dated later than the date of the auditor’s report on the audit ed
financial statements from which it is derived, the following sentence is added to this paragraph: “Those financial statements, and
the summary financial statements, do not reflect the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our report on th ose
financial statements.”
19 Or other term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.
12-979
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.