

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1371
wxl 1"986 - 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'09'23
No. 1,986 – FRIDAY ,  SEPTEMBER 23,  2016
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
Revenue & Expenditure Returns ... 1417
Budgets ... – –
Miscellaneous Notices ... 1419
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... 1372
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for Tenders ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 1377
By-Laws ... 1382
1371
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th October, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th
September, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall
be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-l aw,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
G
ANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer ( Acting ).
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.– Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1985 of 15.09.2016 was not published.
Note.— Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 17, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1372
Posts – Vacant
NEGOMBO  MUNICIPAL  COUNCIL
Filling Vacancies in Western Provincial Public Service
APPLICATIONS are called only from the permanent residents of the Western Province with sufficient qualifications for
recruiting to the following posts currently fallen vacant in the Negombo Municipal Council.
Applications prepared as per the given specimen to be sent the under registered cover to reach me, "Municipal
Commissioner, Municipal Council, Negobmo" before 23.10.2016.
Applicants who are already on Public/Provincial Public Service have to send their applications through their
respective heads of Departments.
Designation Grade No. of Salary Scale Educational Qualifications
Vacancies
Driver iii 01 PL-3-2016 Passing six subjects (out of this 05
(Rs. 25,790 -10x270 -10x300 - subjects at one sitting) of General
10x330 -12x350 - Rs. 38,990) Certificate of Examination (O/L) with two
credit passes in not more than two
sittings.
KKS iii 02 PL-1-2016 Passing six subjects (out of this, 05
(Watcher) Rs. 24,250 -10x250 -10x270 - subjects at one sitting) of General
10x300 -12x330 - Rs. 36,410 Certificate of Examination (O/L) with
two credit passes in not more than two
sittings.
Vocational qualifications, experience and physical qualifications to be fulfilled for the post of Dirver.
Vocational qualifications  :
01. Possessing a driving license issued by Motor Traffic Commissioner General for driving private/hiring
vehicles and station wagons weighing less than 24 TARE. (driving license for C and C1 vehicle group or B
grade driving license under new license system to be possessed secured at least by three (03) years as at
recruitment date)
02. Should have a thorough knowledge on the Highway Code.
Experience.– Three (03) year at minimum as a driving after securing driving license. (Experience to be proved by
certificates).
Physical Qualifications.– Minimum height be five (5) feet.
Should be physically sound to engage in duties during day and night hours and with a fine vision and also should
have a thorough knowledge on the Highway Code which to be certified by a medical certificate issued by a Government
Medical Officer.
Physical Qualifications for the Post of Watcher :
Should have a sound physical and mental condition to engage in duties.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1373
For all posts –
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
* Applicant must have a unblemished character,
* Should be a permanent resident in the Western Province for 03 continued, immediate years by the date of
calling applications,
* All qualifications required to be fulfilled a s stated in application calling notice and Gazette Notifications
to be possessed by date carried in such notices.
Age :
* Minimum limit - Should be not leess than 18 years by the dead line of calling applications,
* Maximum limit - Not more than 45 years.
(The maximum age limit will not applicable to those who are already holding permanent and pensionable employments
in posts of driver on the Provincial Public Service).
Status of Post.– Permanent and Pensionable.
* Language proficiency concerned to be acquired as per Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 in
advance of five years of getting appointment.
* Have to contribute to the Widow and Orphan/Widower and Orphan Pension Scheme.
Recruitment procedure  :
01. Driver - recruitment will be made from applicants passed with a trade test and an interview depending upon
the number of existing vacancies.
Trade Test :
Subjects Maximum marks Pass Mark
1. Driving license 40 20
2. Practical knowledge on highway code 40 20
3. Basic knowledge on motor mechanism 20 10
The afore given trade test will be conducted by an Executive Officer, a Motor Traffic Inspector of Motor Traffic
Department and an officer from Police Traffic Division appointed by the appointing authority.
The afore given test for verifying basic qualifications will be handed by an interview panel appointed by appointing
authority concerned.
02. Watcher - General interview - Checking basic qualifications will be done by a structured interview. Those
who had secured the highest marks will be appointed to the vacancies on sequence of highest marks
recorded by them.
Conditions in additional to common conditions highlighted in Public Service Commission Procedure of Western
Province :-
All selected candidates are bound to abide by regulations in Establishment Code of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulation Code of Western Provincial Council, regulations or orders laid down from time to time by
the Hon. Governor of Western Provincial Council, orders imposed from time to time by Public Service Commission of Western
Province and orders of Ministries and Departments and orders issued by Head of Departments.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1374
Interpretations in additional to interpretations highlighted
in Public Service Commission Procedure Code of Western
Province :-
If any interpretations in additional to interpretations
highlighted in the Public Service Commission Procedure Code
of Western Province, those to be dealt with by enquiring
from Public Service Commission of Western Province/Hon.
Governor of Western Province.
Municipal Commissioner,
Negombo.
NEGOMBO  MUNICIPAL  COUNCIL
A
PPLICATION  FOR  THE  POST  OF  DRIVER/WATCHER
For office use
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ...............................
1. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
2. Name in full :–––––––––––.
3. NIC No. :–––––––––––.
Contact No. :–––––––––––.
4. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
5. Postal address :–––––––––––.
6. Resident (permanent) district :–––––––––––.
7. Divisional Secretary division :–––––––––––.
8. Local body area (resident) :–––––––––––.
9. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
10. Age as at 23.10.2016 :–––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
12. Experience :–––––––––––.
13. V ocational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
14. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
15. Have you ever convicted in any Court of Law :––––––.
I do declare hereby that details given herein are true and
correct to the best of my knowledge. I am very well aware that
I would be dismissed from the service if found false any
information in advance to or aftermath of the appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant's signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
09–767
––––––––––––––––
MINIPE  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the qualified persons who possess the following qualifications and from Sri Lanka
citizens, among those persons who are residents of Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha, in order to recruit to the vacant posts in Minipe
Pradeshiya Sabha.
01.1 Water Work Labourer III - Number of Vacancies 01 (Primary Unskilled)
Name of the Vacancy Salary Scale Educational Qualifications
Water work Labourer III P .L 1-2016 Should have passed General Certificate of Education
Rs. 24,250 -10x250 -10x270 -10x300 - (Ordinary Level) minimum 6 subjects including
12x330 -Rs. 36,410 2 credit passes in not more than two sittings with
5 passes in one attempt.
Physical Qualifications Every ap plicant should have good eye sight and
physically and morally sound and have excellent
character. And have good physical condition to serve
in any part of the island.
02. General Qualifications :
(a) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka and a permanent resident of Central Province. Applicants should
be 03 years permanent residents of Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha authority area prior to the closing date of
application.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1375
(b) The applicant's age should not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years on the closing date of
application. The upper age limit is not applicable those who are in Local Government Service.
(c) All applicants should possess excellent moral character and best physical health and if selected should
submit them to a medical examination within one month time, conducted by a qualified Medical Officer and
if the candidate found to be physically unfit during such a medical examination, the appoint may be canceled.
(d) Should not have been convicted by a Court of Law under the Penal Code.
(e) Should not have been dismissed in the Government or Local Government Service.
(f) Should be perfect in all the qualifications required at the closing date of applications.
3. Terms of Engagement :
(i) The posts are permanent and pensionable.
(ii) Contribution should be made to Widow's/Widower's and Orphan's Pension Scheme.
(iii) The appointees are subjected to serve a period of probation for 03 years and if the service is found not in a
satisfactory level, the service will be terminated without making permanent.
(iv) Special preference will be given those who have field experience in related field.
4. Method for Recruitment :
(i) The applicants have been subjected to face an interview for ascertainment of the higher qualifications and
shall be recruited.
Main fields scoring marks Maximum Marks 100 Minimum marks level to the scored
Additional Educational Qualifications 40 The selection will be made among the highest
Experience 55 marks scored according to the vacant
Competencies shown in the interview 05 prevailing
Total 100
(ii) Applications should be prepared as per specimen of this notification and sent under registered post to reach
the "Secretary, Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha, Hasalaka" on or before 21.10.2016.
(iii) The post applied for should be written clearly on the left hand corner of the envelope. Incomplete, late and
applications which not comply with the qualifications mentioned in the notification will be rejected. The
Pradeshiya Sabha will take no responsible on applications lost in post.
(iv) On recruitment preference will be given to those who are presently serving in the Council.
5. Copies of Certificates
Certified copies of the following documents (no first copies) should be sent along with the applications. (Photostat
copies are sufficient).
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) Educational Certificates,
(iii) Residential proof certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari (counter signed by the Divisional Secretary)
(iv) 02 recent character certificates (one from the Grama Niladhari).

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1376
06. The Secretary to the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha reserve
all such powers to delay or alter such recruitment or cancel or
amend this notification after calling applications or during
such process.
07. Canvassing in any form for the recruitment or trying to
influence in any form of recruitment may cause disqualification.
W. G. D. K. W
ICKRAMASINGHA,
Secretary,
Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha,
Hasalaka,
23rd September, 2016.
Specimen Application Form
FILLING  THE  VACANCIES  IN  THE  CENTRAL
PROVINCE  PUBLIC  SERVICES  MINIPE
PRADESHIYA  SABHA
APPLICA TION FOR THE POST OF ...........................
01. Name with Initial :––––––––––.
Names denoted by Initials :––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
03. Permanent District :––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
05. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––. Month :–––––––––. Date :––––––––.
06. Age as at the closing date of application :
Years :––––––––. Months :––––––––. Days :––––––––.
07. Male/Female :––––––––––.
08. Civil Status : Married/Single :––––––––––.
09. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :––––––––––.
If so, by descent or by registration :––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications  :
G. C. E. (O/L) :
Year :––––––––––. Index Number :––––––––––.
Subjects Pass Subjects Pass
1. .................... ............. 5. .................... .............
2.  .................... ............. 6. .................... .............
3.  .................... ............. 7. .................... .............
4.  .................... ............. 8. .................... .............
11. (i) Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
(ii)Professional Qualifications :––––––––––.
(iii)Experience :––––––––––.
12. If you are already serving in this Pradeshiya Sabha,
mention the post held  :––––––––––.
Permanent/Casual/Temporary/Contract/Substitute :
––––––––––.
Date of appointment to the post :––––––––––.
13. Have you ever being convicted in a Court of Law for any
offence ? :––––––––––.
I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable to be
disqualify before the appointment, if the information furnished
by me are found to be false as per the condition of recruitment
and I am liable to dismiss without any compensation, if it is
detected after selection to the post.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department for those who are
already in Government or Provincial Public Service  :
The applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................... is
presently work as .......................... and he/she can be/cannot
be released from the present post, if selected. I do certify that
the applicant has not been subjected to any inquiry on
disciplinary ground and hereby forward the application.
–––––––––––,
Signature,
Head of the Department.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Institution :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
09–737

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1377
MADULLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
IT is hereby notified for the public information that Madulla
Pradeshiya Sabha has taken the decision to enact the following
terms as the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by Section of
139 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
S. D. M. A
BESEKARA,
Secretary,
Madulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
At Madulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
10th August, 2016.
The Decision
Madulla Pradeshiya Sabha proposes to enact the terms
that the terminal reports should be supplied for the functions
of assessment tax assessing the annual value of all the houses,
buildings, lands and tenements situated within the area of
Madulla Pradeshiya Sabha and or for the functions of acreage
tax assessing the largeness of any cultivated land in which
the said owner of any property and rental for settlers in
accordance with the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by
Section 139 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. And as
the Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary under the power conferred
by Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the said Act.
09–971
–––––––––––––––––
NAGODA  PRADESHIYA SABHA
THE General Public is hereby notified that the Nagoda
Pradeshiya Sabha at its general assembly held on 30.06.2016
adopted the resolution enumerated at 02 of the order book for
implementation with effect from the date of the Gazette
notification, the following By-laws.
In terms of the ratified By-laws promulgated by the Minister
in charge of the subject of Local Government of the Southern
Provincial Council by virtue of the powers vested in him under
Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of Local Gvernment (Ratified By-
laws) Chapter 261 and read with Sub-section (a) of Section 2
of Provincial Council (consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12
of 1989 and published in Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
(i) By-law of interpretation related to all ratified By-
laws.
(ii) By-law of General Provisions related to all ratified
by-laws.
(iii) By-law of penal provisions related to violation of
provision of any By-law or order.
(xix) By-law of trade related to supply of food and
beverages by the Mobile Traders.
(xxii) By-law related to control and regulation of parking
and mobility of vehicles.
(xxiii) By-law related to causing damages to the Roads
and obstruction of free transportation on roads.
(xxvi) By-law related to Playground.
(xxvii) By-law related to Community Centres.
(xxx) By-law related to forwarding of periodical reports
and information.
M. H. F
ERSIA FERVIN,
Secretary,
Nagoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
09–773
–––––––––––––––
HOMAGAMA PRADESHIYA SABHA
Notice published under Section 3 of Local
Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952
IT is hereby notified that the resolution has been passed on
this 21st in the month of July in 2016, under No. 5114 as per
provisions specified under Section 3 of Local Authorities
(Standard By-law) Act, No. 6 of 1952 and by virtue of the
power vested in me, that is resolved under Section 9.3 of
Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.
RESOLUTION N
O. 5114
It has been notified in the Gazette Notification of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka under No. 21/1976
of 20th of July 2016 and No. 1947/6 of 28th December 2015 that
the Western Provincial Council has resolved, as per provisions
added to Section 02 of (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12
of 1989, that is the By-law, published in Extraordinary Gazette
Notification No. 1888/47, of 14.11.2014, made by in the capacity
Local Government Notifications

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1378
of the Minister, in charge of administration of Western
Provincial Council, under Section 02 of Local Authorities
(standard By-law) Act, No. 06 of 1952, that has to be read with
Section 02 of Provincial Council (Consequential Act) No. 12
of 1989.
It has been resolved by me under Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, that has to become applicable as  a
resolution By-law from 01.01.2017, within the jurisdiction of
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha, as per provisions those are
specified under Section 03 of Local Authorities (Standard By-
laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952.
Further, it has been resolved by me that the standard By-
laws, those are set out under the names in the Schedule below,
those are in force are being applied for under Section 03 of
Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952, for
the judicial division of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha. The said
standard By-laws is passed and resolved by me on this date
of 28.07.2016, under resolution No. 5114 as per references
under Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987,
that it shall not be applicable to Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha
after the date of 31.12.2016, without prejudice to the activities,
which had been taken up to that date, under the said Standard
By-laws.
S
CHEDULE
A. Lodging houses,
B Restaurant and Tea and Coffee Boutiques
C. Bakeries
D. Sale of Fish
E. Sale of Meat
F . Offensive and Dangerous Traders
G. Itinerant Venders
H. Advertisement
I. Hotels
Secretary and the Officer for Implementation of
Activities and the tasks,
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Head Office of Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day 21st in the month of July, 2016.
09–777
URBAN COUNCIL KEGALLE
Act, No. 17 of 1975 for Issue of License for a Social Club
IT is hereby informed that I have received an application to conduct a social club at the person mentioned below in the Sub-
schedule for the year 2017, under premises Section 6 of the Act, No. 17 of 1975.
It is further informed that if any objections to issue a license to conduct such a social club at the said premises
proposed, such objections by any partial or organizations should be sent to me in writing with duplicate within a period of four
(04) weeks time of publication of this Gazette Notification.
R. G . S. NIROSHAN,
Secretary,
Urban Council - Kegalle.
Urban Council, Kegalle,
29th August, 2017.
SUB-SCHEDULE
Name of Applicant Social Club Name of the Club Place/Authority of the new
and Address President/Secretary activities of Social Club
Vidana Henayalage Siril President Blue Light Traders and No. 152, Kalugalla Mawatha,
No. 167/28, Olagama, Kegalle Restaurant Kegalle
09–774

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1379
ATHURALIYA  PRADESHIYA SABHA
BY virtue of Section 24(1)b of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that Athuraliya Pradeshiya Sabha
in Matara district, Southern Province has decided under decision No. 1670 dated 22.08.2016 as passed by the Sabha on
24.02.2015 to possess following roads unto Athuraliya Pradeshiya Sabha for the public use.
As per Section 24(2), if such a road is marked across any land and when there is any claimant who makes any claim
thereto he or she is hereby notified to submit objections along with proofs to the Pradeshiya Sabha within 30 days from the
date on which this notice was published in the Gazette.
In case no objection is made within the said period, it is considered as no objection and further hereby notified that
said roads mentioned in this Schedule are accepted as roads belonged to Athuraliya Pradeshiya Sabha.
K. P. P
EMAW ATHI,
Secretary,
Athuraliya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Athuraliya Pradeshiya Sabha,
Thibbotuwawa,
22nd August, 2016.
Schedule
Serial G . N. Road Name Start End Land owners of both sides Road T otal
No. Division width length
Leftside Right side Metre Metre
01 Wilpita East II Beligaha Owita 4th post of Pallewatta 1. Paddy field 1. Paddy field 1.2 216
Karahinnawatta Akuressa land cultivated by cultivated by
Road Kamburupitiya Chandralatha Chandralatha
Road Asalage Asalage
II. Karahinnawatta II. Paddy field
Land cultivated by
W. G. Amarapala
III. Karahinnawatta
Land
09–880
–––––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA SABHA RIDEEGAMA
Notification made under Section 24 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
IT is hereby notified that the thoroughfare set out in following plan No. 7000 prepared by the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama
of Kurunegala District in the North Western Province is declared as a thoroughfare owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha
Rideegama in terms of Section 24(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
02. if any objection is forwarded by the claiming parties as titleholders of the relevant lands regarding this
thoroughfare which has already been surveyed and put marks, it is hereby notified that action should be taken in terms of
Section 24(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 to confirm their claim during a month from the date of publication
of this notification.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1380
03. It is hereby notified and declared for the public information that if any objection is not received during this
period the following thoroughfare will be accepted and maintained as a thoroughfare owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha
Rideegama.
J. A. A
JITH KUMARASINGHA,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
At the Office of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama,
31st  August, 2016.
BY  ROAD  OF LIHINIWEHERA COLONY
Name of Beginning of End of the Names of the title Names of the title Grama Length Breadth
the the thoroughfare holders of the lands holders of the lands Niladhari of the of the
thoroughfare thoroughfare situated at the Left side situated at the Right side Division thorough- thorough-
of the thoroughfare of the thoroughfare and fare fare
Number feet
By Road of Land claimed Land claimed 1. Mr. L. H. A. Ranjith 1. Mr. M. A. Premalal 554 600 ft. 20 ft.
Lihiniwehera by Mr. L. H. A. by Mr. A. G. A. Samarakoon Gnanarathna Nuwarayaya
Colony Ranjith Sugath 2. Mrs. L. H. A. 2. Mrs. K. M. Dingiri
Samarakoon Susantha Rathnawathie Menike Menike
3. Mr. A. G. A. Sugath 3. Ms. A. G. A. Jinadari
Susantha Sandamali
4. Mr. A. G. A. Sugath
Susantha
09–841
–––––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA SABHA, RIDEEGAMA
Notification made under Section 24 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
IT is hereby notified that the thoroughfare set out in following Plan No. 1871 prepared by the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama
of Kurunegala District in the North-western Province is declared as a thoroughfare owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
Rideegama in terms of Section 24(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
02. if any objection is forwarded by the claiming parties as titleholders of the relevant lands regarding this
thoroughfare which has already been surveyed and put marks, it is hereby notified that action should be taken in terms of
Section 24(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 to confirm their claim during a month from the date of publication
of this notification.
03. It is hereby notified and declared for the public information that if any objection is not received during this
period the following thoroughfare will be accepted and maintained as a thoroughfare owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha
Rideegama.
J. A. A
JITH KUMARASINGHA,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
At the Office of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama,
31st  August, 2016.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1381
BY  ROAD  RUNNING  FROM  SIYAMBALAELLA  MAIN  ROAD  TO  SIYAMBALAELLA  VILLAGE
Name of Beginning of End of the Names of the title Names of the title Grama Length Breadth
the the thoroughfare holders of the lands holders of the lands Niladhari of the of the
thoroughfare thoroughfare situated at the Left side of situated at the Right side Division thorough- thorough-
the thoroughfare of the thoroughfare and fare fare
Number feet
Road to near Mr. P. G. Mr. A. G. 1. Mr. P. G. Haramanis 1. Mr. D. M. G. 568 01 K. m. 10 ft.
the house of Haramanis Wimalasena 2. Mr. P. G. Priyantha Dharmasena Pallekanda
Mr. A. G. 3. Mr. B. D. Wasantha 2. Mr. A. G. Somasewa
Wimalasena 4. Mr. B. D. Nimal 3. Mrs. K. D. Ariyawathie
from 5. Mr. K. D. Ranjith 4. Mr. K. G. Saradiya
Siyambalaella 6. Mr. K. G. Bandula 5. Mrs. K. G. Gayani
Main Road 7. Mr. G. G. Munidasa 6. Mr. G. B. Jinadasa
8. Mr. Susantha 7. Mr. A. G. Wimalasena
Senarathna
9. Mrs. R. D. Gunalatha
10. Mr. G. G. Somadasa
11. Mr. A. G. Nimal
12. Mr. A. G. Piyasena
09–840
–––––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA SABHA, RIDEEGAMA
Notification made under Section 24 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
IT is hereby notified that the thoroughfare set out in following Plan No. 6989 prepared by the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama
of Kurunegala District in the North-western Province is declared as a thoroughfare owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama
in terms of Section 24(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
02. if any objection is forwarded by the claiming parties as titleholders of the relevant lands regarding this
thoroughfare which has already been surveyed and put marks, it is hereby notified that action should be taken in terms of
Section 24(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 to confirm their claim during a month from the date of publication
of this notification.
03. It is hereby notified and declared for the public information that if any objection is not received during this
period the following thoroughfare will be accepted and maintained as a thoroughfare owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha
Rideegama.
J. A. A
JITH KUMARASINGHA,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
At the Office of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
31st August, 2016.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1382
GALLINDA  DEWATA  ROAD - GANEGODA
Name of Beginning of End of the Names of the title Names of the title Grama Length Breath
the the thoroughfare holders of the lands holders of the lands Niladhari of the of the
thoroughfare thoroughfare situated at the leftside of situated at the rightside division thorough- thorough-
the thoroughfare of the thoroughfare and fare fare
Number feet
Gallinda From near the Land claimed 1. Mr. Nonawaththa 1. Mr. M. H. S. S. Ahamad 587 1141 ft. 10 ft.
Dewata Road, land of Mr. by Mr. S. B. Justine Sisira Kumara 2. Mr. S. K. M. Wijerathna Ganegoda
Ganegoda M. H. S. Ukkubanda 2. Ganegoda Samithi 3. Mrs. D. M. Nandana
Ahamad Shalawa Menike
situated at 3. Mr. S. M. K. Lalith 4. Mr. S. K. M. Duddly
Pradeshiya Karunarathna Karunarathna
Sabha Road 4. Mr. S. K. M. Duddly 5. Mr. A. K. G.
running from Karunarathna Dharmarathna
Ganegoda 5. Mr. S. K. M. Anura 6. Mr. S. B. Ukku Banda
Junction to Karunarathna
Dodamthalawa 9. Mr. S. K. M. Lalith
Karunarathna
10. Mrs. R. N. M. Sumana
Nawarathna
09–839
By-laws
POLPITHIGAMA   PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Local Authority (Standard By-law)
BY virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with
Section 3 of Local Authority (Standard By-law) Act, No. 06 of 1952, I, Rathnayaka Mudiyanselage Thilak Kumara Rathnayaka
the Secretary and the officer of executing powers and duties of Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama hereby notify that I have
decided under Resolution No. 728 dated 12.02.2016 that the By-law on Solid Waste Management on Pradeshiya Sabha
should be implemented within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama.
R. M. T. K. R
ATHNAYAKA,
Secretary and the Officer of Executing Powers and Duties,
Polpithigama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Chief Office,
Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I have
decided to implement the By-law on Solid Waste Management on Pradeshiya Sabha together with the resolutions regarding
regulations, supervision, inspection and controlling of selection, collection, transportation, storing, implementation and
maintenance of transferring sites, processing, treating and disposing of garbage generated at public places, private premises,
streets and thoroughfares within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama which has been published in Part
IV(a) of Extraordinary Gazette paper of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1933/40 dated 25.09.2015 prepared by
the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the North Western Province by virtue of powers vested in him
under Sub-section (i) of Section (2) of Local Authority (Standard By-law) Act, No. 06 of 1952 to be read with paragraph (a) of
Sub-section (1) of Section (2) of Provincial Council (incidental Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, Chapter 261.
B
Y-LAWS   OF  SOLID   WASTE   MANAGEMENT   FOR   PRADESHIY A   SABHA  POLPITHIGAMA
01. This by-law shall be cited as by-laws relating to Solid Waste Management of Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1383
02. These by-laws shall be  imposed for regularizing, monitoring, checking and controlling of segregating, storing,
dumping, collecting, transporting and operating and maintaining of exchange points of solid waste being
dumped in streets, roads, public places and private premises within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha
Polpithigama.
03. It shall be the duty of all the owners or residents of the premises of Pradeshiya Sabha to keep their premises
free from garbage and a healthy and pleasant manner.
04. All the owners or residents residing in premises coming under the purview of Pradeshiya Sabha shall act in
conformity with these By-laws which deal with collecting, segregating, storing, transporting and disposing of
garbage being dumped within such premises or cause to do so.
05. (i) All the owners or residents shall collect the solid waste gathering in such premises daily or more
frequently than that if required by sweeping or other suitable method.
(ii) According to preceding Sub-section of this by-law, the owners and resident shall segregate collectd
waste in accordance with the provisions of Sections No. 08 to 20 or cause to do so.
(iii) Any bag, cover, large bin or any other container used by the owner or the resident to store or remove
waste shall maintain in a proper quality for the purpose of the Sections of these by-laws.
(iv) Pradeshiya Sabha shall maintain a specific service with prior notice to collect garbage within the area of
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha in accordance with the Sub-section 5(1) and the owner or the resident
shall handover collected waste to specific place noticed by the Pradeshiya Sabha in accordance with the
time table and system of garbage collection decided from time to time mentioned in the said Schedule I.
06. (i) No person shall dump waste to a street, road, roadway, avenue, lane or other public place or area of
drainage, waste path, reservation, or tank, or bay or water base, or to the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste harmful way in any open space within the area of authority of Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(iii) In case an owner or a resident shall have to obtain the permission to release, treat, prepare or remove any
waste according to Section 07 and fails to obtain the permission to do so the person can handover that
waste to the authorized waste collector.
(iv) W aste which has not been prepared, treated or removed according to provisions of the Section 7 and the
waste collected by the authorized person under provisions stated above 6(iii) should remove according
to the regulations of the provisions of this By-law.
07. (i) An owner or the resident of any premises can remove waste within the same premises other than
following facts.
(A) Being an area for removal of such waste is prohibited by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(B) Certain waste specifically defined by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) Owner or dweller of the premises can burn waste in a burner or a kiln built according to the approved plan
and as per the standards by the Secretary.
(iii) If any owner or resident requests “Compost Bin” from the secretary and the owner or the resident has
enough space to maintain that bin secretary can provide compost bin to the owner or the resident by
offering a share or full amount of the cost provide as a subsidy.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1384
(iv) Owner or the should act to remove “Garden Waste” within the premises according to the provisions of
this By-law. After that rest of the waste considering their status should handover to the Pradeshiya
Sabha waste Collector paying a levy under decisions made by the Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(v) Any person who cut any tree or part of it nearby the street or roadway should remove it as soon as
possible. Otherwise should get any action to remove it. Or can be handover to the Pradeshiya Sabha
waste collector paying a levy under decisions made by the Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(vi) All people should get any action not to remove any dirt of their animals in any Street, Roadway or Public
places. If someone does so a person has a responsible to clean and remove such waste according to this
By-law.
(vii) No person shall release or store any waste from a vehicle to a street, road, roadway, avenue, lane or other
public place or area or drainage, water path, reservation, or tank, or bay or water base, or to the sea.
(viii) Any person who wish to approve a plan to construct or renovate a house or any premises shall include
his application about the way of treating and preparing method solid wastes in the premises.
H
OUSING PREMISES
08. (i) All owners and residents shall segregate their wastes collected by sweeping or any other method as
follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dead bodies, parts of the bodies and dung of animals.
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collated by sweeping.
(ii) All the owners and residents shall keep such segregated waste in separate bags, bins or other container
and shall store in a place allocated to keep them until removed. Food wastes and bio degradable waste
shall keep in containers made of wet proof material with a top cover so as to prevent the entery of rats,
insects and animals. Dead bodies of animals, parts of dead bodies and dung within the premises shall be
accepted only by levying a charge decided from time to time by the Pradeshiya Sabha considering the
type of the waste.
(iii) All owners and residents shall handover specially specified wastes mentioned in item (a) and (b) in
Section 8(i) to authorized waste collector or the Pradeshiya Sabha can dispose such waste to a dumping
container.
09. (i) All the owners of a premises of Multi Storied building where a number of lessees are living shall
segregate their collected wastes as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dead bodies, parts of the bodies and dung of animals ;
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collated by sweeping ;

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1385
(ii) Owner or resident of specified building stated in statement 9(1) shall supply containers for described
wastes under said Para (a), (b) and (c) according to specification and standard of this By-law.
(iii) Owner or the resident of the building specified in Schedule 9(i) shall not obey the provisions in Sub-
section (ii), the Secretary has a right to order to the owner or the resident to provide relevant bins or
containers to the date informed by the Secretary.
(iv) Owner or dweller of the ground floor or any floor of a building shall remove their selected wastes to the
bins or containers kept.
(v) Authorised waste collector shall collect the removed wastes categories specially mentioned in item ( a),
(b) and (c) of Schedule 9(i) of this By-law. Any wastes which not remove by this way shall remove to a
place specially mentioned for this purpose by the Pradeshiya Sabha or shall handover to the wastes
collector of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in said Para 9(1)( c) should not mix with item ( a), (b), (c) and (e) and such
wastes should remove by the owner, tenant or resident to the special service provide of the authorised
waste collector.
10. (i) It is legal to provide waste bins or containers by the Secretary for the dwellers of slums after getting prior
approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha .
(ii) All owners and dwellers of slums shall put their collected wastes to the nearby waste collecting bins or
containers after dividing as follows :-
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(iii) Secretary should provide approval for waste collector to remove wastes specially mentioned in item (a)
and (b) of the Schedule 10(ii) of this By-law.
S
HOPS AND OFFICES
11. (i) All owners or managers of a shop or office shall segregate their wastes in each complex as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recycling waste ;
(c) Harmful waste ;
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collated by sweeping.
(ii) These segregated wastes shall put in separate, bins or other container and shall store in a place where
mentioned to keep them until they are remove.
(iii) Owner or manager of the shop or office shall handover wastes mentioned specially in the Schedule (a)
and (b) of 11(1) of this By-law to the authorised waste collator.
(iv) Owner or manager of multi storied shops and office shall divide selected wastes from the shop or office
according to approved standard by the secretary and shall store in a suitable place after putting them in
a suitable separate containers until they remove.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1386
(v) Any owner of a shop or office specially mentioned in the Schedule (iv) of statement 11 in this By-law
shall put the selected wastes to separate bins or containers. All the owners and managers have a
responsibility to handover wastes specially mentioned in Schedules 1(a) and (b) of this By-law which to
the authorised wastes collector.
(vi) Waste categ ories mentioned in item (e) of Schedule 11(1) of this By-law which are not collected by the
authorised waste collector, it is legal to handover wastes to the collector working under Pradeshiya
Sabha for providing such special service.
(vii) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item ( e) should not mix with item ( a), (b), (e) in any way and the
owners or managers of shops and office should remove such wastes to the collector who has an
approval for providing such special service.
(viii) Owner or manager of a shop or office have a responsibility to maintain waste bins and containers
specially ordered by this By-law and shall remove wastes without any problem to health and sanitation
of the neighbours or workers of said shop or officer.
H
OTELS
12. (i) All hotel owners or persons who has written authorized of it shall divide their collected wastes as
follows. Otherwise shall get any action to do so :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) All hotel owners or persons who has written authority of it shall divide wastes and put in a separate, bins
or other container and shall store in a place where mentioned to keep them until remove these wastes.
(iii) All hotel owners or persons who has written authority of is device and keep such food wastes and bio
degradable waste in a bin or container with plastic or steel lid not to enter filers, rats, insects and any
other animal.
(iv) W aste categories mentioned in items (a) and (b) of 12(i) of this By-law shall provide of this by-law shall
to the authorized waste collector.
(v) Waste categories mentioned in item ( a) and (b) which are not received by the Scheduled 12(iv) of this
By-law shall put them in a specified separate containers or stores in a suitable place where mentioned by
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (e) should not mix with above items (a), (b), (e) in any way and
the hotel owners or managers of shops and office should remove such wastes to the collector who has
an approval for providing such special service.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1387
VEGETABLE AND  FRUIT STALLS
13. (i) All owners or person in charge of vegetable and fruit stalls shall seregate their collected wastes as
follows :
(a) Vegetable and fruit which are not suitable for human consumptions or other degradable wastes,
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes.
(ii) W astes mentioned in item ( a) of this Section13(i) shall keep in a container made with plastic or steel
material with a top cover not to enter rats, insects and animals. Other wastes shall put in a suitable bin or
container.
(iii) W astes mentioned  in item (a) and (b) of 13(i) of this shall provide to the authorized waste collector by the
Sabha.
(iv) It is legal to remove waste categories mentioned in items ( a) and ( b) which are not received by the
Schedule 13(iii) of this By-law after putting them in a specified separate containers or store in a suitable
place where mentioned.
M
EAT, FISH OR EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal other than described in the permit issued in written by the Chairman
for this purpose mentioned in the Slaughter Act.
(ii) Owner or businessman of meat, fish, or egg stall shall divide their collected waste as follows :
(a) Dead bodies of animals, parts of them, eggs or other degradable wastes not suitable for human
consumption ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes.
(iii) All collected waste shall put into a separate bin or container. Specially mentioned wastes in item (a) of
the Schedule 14(ii) of this By-law keep in a container made with wet proof material with a top cover not
to enter rats, insects and animals.
(iv) Specially mentioned wastes in items (a) and (b) in statement (ii) of this By-law shall provide to authorized
waste collector, of shall remove waste categories mentioned in item (a) and (b) which are not provided to
the waste collector shall provide for the waste collector maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha or shall
keep any place where specified for this purpose.
(v) It is legal to remove waste categories mentioned in items ( a) and ( b) which are not received by the
Schedule 14(vi) of this by-law after putting them in a specified containers or store in a suitable place
where mentioned.
M
OBILE/PEDESTAL
15. (i) All mobile or pedestal salesman who any business which create waste shall prepare bin or container to
put these wastes according to specifications and provisions made by this by-law. Any waste shall not
put to pedestal area, road or drainage or public place.
(ii) All mobile or pedestal sales person shall not put any bin or container blocking the transport paths of
vehicles and pedestrians.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1388
(iii) All mobile or pedestal sales person shall divide their collected wastes as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recycling waste ;
(c) Harmful waste.
(iv) Selected wastes shall put to a separate bin or container. Wastes mentioned in items (a) of Schedule 15(iii)
of this By-law shall put into a secured container not to enter flies, rats, insects and any other animal and
other than occasions putting any dust this shall close with a lid.
(v) Wastes mentioned specially in the Scheduled ( a) and (b) of 15(iii) of this by-law shall provide to the
authorized waste collector.
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (e) should not mix with above items (a), (b) in any way and the
mobile or pedestal sales persons shall remove such wastes to the collector who has an approval for
providing such special service.
(vii) W aste categories mentioned in items (a) and (b) which are not received by the Scheduled (v) of this by-
law shall put them in a specified separate containers or store in a suitable place where mentioned.
Before handover waste bins to the Urban waste collector all mobile/pedestal seller shall pay a fee
decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha  time to time.
I
NDUSTRIES
16. (i) All owners of an industry or producers shall divide the collected wastes as follows :–
(a) Bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) W astes mentioned in items (a), (b) and (c) of the Schedule 16(1) of this by-law shall provide collected
wastes to a waste collector of the Pradeshiya Sabha under payment decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha
time to time.
(iii) Harmful wastes shall remove according to conditions mentioned in the Environment Conservation
License issued for the business under Provincial Environment Enactment of North Western Province
No. 12 of 1990 in the North Western Province.
(iv) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item ( e) of the Schedule 16(1) of this by-law should not mix with
above items (a), (b), (e) in any way and the owners of the industries shall provide such wastes to the
collector who has an approval for providing such special service.
E
XCA V ATING, CONSTRUCTING AND BREAKING
17. (i) Any person who excavate any street, road or public place or build anything or break something shall
store wastes generated by this task within the premises or any place mentioned by the Secretary if they
remove from the premises.

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1389
(ii) W astes mentioned in Schedule (i) of this by-law shall handover to the waste collector of Pradeshiya
Sabha Limit paying any fee determine by the Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
HOSPITALS
18. (i) All the owners or proprietor of Hospitals shall their collected waste as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recycling waste ;
(c) Clinical waste ;
(d) Harmful waste ;
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) Collected wastes under items (a), (b) in Schedule I shall store in each container in a suitable place until
they remove and shall handover to the waste collector specified by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Wastes
mentioned in the Schedule ( e) of 19(i) of this by-law shall provide to the authorized waster collector
under payment decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(iii) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (c), (d) shall not mix with any other wastes in any way and  these
wastes shall remove according to conditions mentioned in the Environment Conservation License issued
for the business under Provincial Environment Enactment of North Western Province No. 12 of 1990.
P
RIV ATE  HOSPITALS AND LABORATORIES
19. (i) All the owners or proprietor of Private Hospital and Laboratories shall decided their collected wastes as
follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recycling waste ;
(c) Clinical wastes ;
(d) Harmful wastes ;
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) Collected wastes under items (a), (b) in Schedule I shall store in each container in a suitable place until
they remove and shall handover to the waste collector specified by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Wastes
mentioned in the Schedule ( e) of 19(i) of this by-law shall provide to the authorized waste collector
payment decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(iii) W astes mentioned in the Schedule ( e) of 19(i) of this by-law shall provide to the authorized waste
collector under payment decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(iv) Harmful wastes mentioned in above items (c), (d) shall not mix with other wastes in any way and  these
wastes shall remove according to conditions mentioned in the Environment Conservation License issued
for the business under Provincial Environment Enactment of North Western Province No. 12 of 1990.

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1390
OTHER PREMISES
20. (i) Any person doing a business not mentioned specially in the statements 8 to 18 or any person who
implemented or organize common religion, social, cultural or educational activity with participation of
general public shall divide these wastes generate due to implement such organization or activity as
mentioned below :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling waste ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) Any person who organize any activity specially mentioned in Schedule 20(i) shall inform Pradeshiya
Sabha early about it to prepare special program to collect wastes generate by such activities.
(iii) Selected divided wastes shall store in a suitable place after putting them separate containers until they
remove.
(iv) It is legal to provide collected wastes mentioned in items (a), (b) and (c) of the Scheduled 20 (i) of this by-
law to a waste collector of the Pradeshiya Sabha under payment decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha time
to time.
(v) But a fee decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha mentioned in Schedule (IV) is not relevant for waste collections
in any activity implement without a view to commercial purpose in any religious place according to
removal of collected wastes under items (a), (b) and (c) in Schedule I which collected by such activities.
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (e) should not mix with above items (a), (b) and (c) in any way
and shall provide such wastes collector who has an approval for providing such special service.
STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) Chairman shall activate to plan, control and administrate following activities decided accordingly by the
Pradeshiya Sabha :
(a) In ceremonies, special occasions and prepared by the Pradeshiya Sabha mobile wastes bins
should provide to use in public areas according to request of the organizers of such ceremonies
and special occasions or timely decision made by the Pradeshiya Sabha for such occasion.
(b) Maintain public waste bins or containers in a proper sanitary condition where bins kept after
identifying these places as temporary shorans and shall remove such waste from the places
without any harm to the dwellers reside nearby.
(c) Investigate any petitions regarding activities specially mentioned in prior statements and get an
immediate actions about them.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1391
DUTIES OF PRADESHIYA SABHA
22. (i) Secretary shall plan, supervise, control and administrate following activities after discussing with the
Chairman and under approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha :–
(a) Encourage public to reduce, reuse and recycle wastes ;
(b) Implement awareness programs about select and divide, collect, store, remove and discard wastes
or publish them through medias ;
(c) Facilitate persons and small entrepreneurs who are engaged in reuse and recycle activities ;
(d) Rewarding persons who are engaged in reduce, reuse and recycle activities ;
(e) Regulate different forms about removal of wastes ;
(f) Prepare time table mention the Date, Time, Method and Fees of collecting wastes determine by the
council for each wastes in each Pradeshiya Sabha area and indicates conditions of collecting
wastes in Public Holidays ;
(g) Collect separated wastes on time according to Time Table which are not provided separately for
authorized waste collector ;
(h) Transport dangerous wastes and any other wastes hygienic way which are not proved for authorized
waste collector ;
(i) Other than dangerous wastes or any wastes ordered by the Secretary wastes collected by sweeping
streets, cleaning drainages and cleaning public places, wastes collected from public bins and
wastes collected by Pradeshiya Sabha workers shall handover to the authorized waste collector or
shall remove formal way by the Pradeshiya Sabha ;
(j) Take actions to handover Foods and other Bio Degradable Reusable wastes to authorized waste
collector or activate to remove them formally which prepare or treat totally or partially in a practical
manner and handover rejected wastes from such activities as approved by the Secretary within
Pradeshiya Sabha Limit ;
(k) Regulating all activities relating removal of dangerous wastes with Environmental Authority of the
North Western Province ;
(l) Implement activities of receiving Permit or Environmental Security Permit according to provisions
of North Western Provincial Environmental Enactment No. 12 of 1990 and burning wastes according
to the conditions of that Permit or Environmental Security Permit or preserve sanitary ground filling
or implement other formal alterations ;
(m) Provide cleaning materials, suitable cloths, gloves, mouth covers and boots for all workers who are
engaging in the activities of sweeping, collecting, selecting and dividing, transporting, changing
and removing of waste and implement health security system for such workers and prepare Health
Clinics for them more than twice per year ;
(n) Implement Internal Waste Management Plan for Pradeshiya Sabha Premises ;
(o) Prepare and Implement Solid Waste Management Implement Plan which cover up each year indicating
information and covers 03 years period mentioning final removal according to North Western
Provincial Environmental Enactment No. 12 of 1990 and the National Strategies of Solid Waste
Management of 2000 and relevant law. Pradeshiya Sabha shall approve it annually under condition
basis according to time duration of the Plan ;

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1392
(p) Investigate and take immediate action about petitions regarding activities in items ( a) to (o) and if
it mentions any harassment investigate it within three days and other petitions within Fourteen
days.
P
ERMIT
23. (i) Pradeshiya Sabha shall provide a Permit for following activities mention below if any person or persons
manufacture any product reusing, recycling wastes or make compost or Bio Gas :–
(a) Implementing any business within Pradeshiya Sabha Limit or other Local Council Limit which
approved by this by-law of Pradeshiya Sabha ;
(b) Own an Environmental Secure Permit issued according to the provisions of North Western Provincial
Enactment No. 12 of 1990 ;
(c) Implement waste collecting center constructed according to approval standard by the Pradeshiya
Sabha for collecting wastes ;
(d) Have vehicles to transport collected wastes according to approval of the Secretary and sanitary
method without done any harm to the public ;
(e) If the relevant business is in the Pradeshiya Sabha Limit they shall agree to pay a fee to Pradeshiya
Sabha as determined by the Urban Council to collect wastes which created rejected, remaining
wastes and by products  and other wastes of preparing or treatment activities of waste.
(ii) If the Pradeshiya Sabha reject to provide any Permit or Cancel any Permit the Sabha shall inform to the
applicant the reason to reject or cancel the permit within 30 days of receiving the application if the
applicant requested to do so.
(iii) Secretary shall mention in the Permit the validity period of the waste collecting activities, waste categories
and waste collecting area and other suitable conditions.
(iv) If any person not to do these activities according to provisions of the Schedule 23(1) of this by-law
permit issued under conditions of this by-law shall be cancelled.
(v) In any occasion cancelling the permit according to provisions of the Schedule 23(iv), any person shall
not collect or receive wastes. In such event the Secretary shall use media or sufficient method to aware
public about the cancellation.
W
ASTE REMOVING AREAS
24. Any unauthorized person shall enter waste removing areas of Pradeshiya Sabha and shall not bury, remove
any equipment or thing in the promises. Any person shall not bury any prohibited waste until the Pradeshiya
Sabha provide an approval to do so under condition made by the Sabha.
25. Any person shall not use land within Pradeshiya Sabha Limit to put any waste created outside the area without
an approval and conditions of the Secretary and the Environmental Authority of the North Western Province.
26. All waste collecting lands shall covered by the wall or suitable thing to mark its boundaries and the places shall
implement proper conditions not to throw waste lands due to wing, water or any other thing.

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1393
OTHER
27. (i) A power shall vested to the Chairman or any person who has a authority given by the Chairman to enter
any premises and inspect the owner or the dweller whether implement their activities according to the
provisions of this By-law.
(ii) Owner, dweller, tenant, manager or residence of any premises shall provide required information to any
authorized officer if they to  do so.
(iii) Any person shall not pay any obstacle to use po wers vested in a Chairman or any authorized officer if
they request to do so.
28. Any persons who violate the statement mentioned in this By-law is considered  as a punishable offence
according to statement No. 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and be penalized after court order.
I
NTERPRETA TION
29. In this By-law in the event of context otherwise requires.
“Waste or solid waste” means no any consumer value of the waste for removed person of any maternal, wastes,
dust, sweeping wants of street, soil, mud and ash.
“Food wastes”  mean food items cannot use human consumption.
“Harmful wastes” mean wastes that can be harmful for public health or environment or poisonous, burning,
disease, radioactive wastes.
“Collect” mean collected wastes for recycling, preparing, or treatment activities which have any authority to do
so or waste collector in the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama.
“Chairman” means, chairman appointed for Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama.
“Compost” means, final output received from the micro digesting of Carbonic wastes, It is a Humane material
which can be active as soil protector.
“Secretary ” means regarding Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama, Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama
established for Pradeshiya Sabha under Pradeshiya Sabha Act and can be considered as any authorized
officers appointed for as a secretary under Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
“Store” means, storing or keeping wastes in an approved public collecting places or any place in a premises of
the owner or the dweller.
“Fee” means, any fee decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama from time to time.
“Garden Wastes” mean parts of trees or plants, stones, soil which remove from the garden.
“Bio Degradable Wastes” mean waste can be degraded by micro organism.
“Common Place” mean any place like road, ground, common land, road reservation, playground, common building,
cemetery, bus stand, railway station, river, lake, tank, pond, pool, nay, water way, sea, seashore, or a place used
as public use or any other such place.
“Recycling Wastes“ mean wastes which can used as new consumer after changing its normal way and cannot be
identified as wastes.

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1394
“Reusable Wastes” means, wastes which can reuse after removing germs and cleaning by washing or other
method.
“Transport” means, carrying out collected wastes from one place to another place using human, animal, or
mechanical way prepare, treat or remove them.
“Bin/pot or other container” means, any person who collect or get wastes with a lid to use store, remove, collect
or transport according to requirements stated in this by-law.
“Authorised Waste Collector” means, any person who collect or get wastes with a permit issued by the Secretary.
“Authorized Officer” means, any person who has a right to perform duties according to by-law under permission
of the Mayor or any person who gives his authority in written.
“Remove” means, all wastes which are not reuse, not recycles, not prepared or not treated and bury outside or
underground in any land selected for put them permanently.
“Changing Place” means, a place reserved for this task and this place shall used for change wastes from small
vehicle to large vehicles to provide any facility to recycle, prepare, treat or remove wastes in an efficiently way.
“Person” means, Statutory or Non Statutory Company or Committee of a person, or Team or any Person.
“Waste Collector within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama” means, any person who has
sign a contract to collect, sweep, receive, remove wastes with the Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama from any
Bin or Containers.
“Separate” means, separating any wastes as mentioned in the waste categories under this by-law.
“Prepare” means, process which transform waste to useful outcome.
“Council” means, Pradeshiya Sabha Polpithigama which established made provisions under Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1997 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
“Area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha” means, area which established under No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya Sabha
Act.
“Sanitary Ground Filling” means, putting wastes finally to a land according to accepted standard of Sri Lanka to
minimize Social, Health and Environmental effects.
“Owner or Dweller” means, owner of the premises or authorized person who has an attorney power of the
Industry, Factory, Estate, or manager of them or representative or caretaker or tenant or manager who act
under orders of other person.
“All person who engaged in Excavating, Constructing and Breaking activities mentioned in this statement
includes any person who are engaging in such activities as service provider for the Sabha.
“Construction Wastes” means, soil, mud, dust which generate construction of building or wastes which generate
breaking of buildings.
If there is any discrepancy of terms in this statement, “Hospital” means, a place where accept, care and treat ill or
diseased human or animal (described in any way) it included Care Center, Clinic, Medical Centre, Maternity
Home and Animal Hospital or Animal Clinic.

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1395
“Harmful Secured Wastes” means, clinic waste, body parts, infectious and highly infectious wastes and sharp
boned.
“Office” means, the meaning described in the authority 129 of Shops and Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954.
“Shop” means, a place where running a Whole Sale and Retail Business, a place where kept in Goods, Food
Outlets, Saloon or Make up Saloon.
In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
09–964
–––––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA   SABHA   POLGAHAWELA
Local Government Authorities Act (Standard  By-law) No. 06 of 1952
BY virtue of powers vested in me under Local Government Authorities Act, (standard By Law ) No.06 of 1952 to be read with
Sub section (03) of Section 9 of  pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, Jayasinghe Mudiyanselage Nimal Jayasinghe the
Secretary and officer of executing powers and duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela do hereby notify that I have
decided to implement the by- laws such as 1. Creating committee meetings within Pradeshiya Sabha, 2. Conducting meetings
and submission of periodical returns and information, 3. Controlling, administration and levying charges from Crematoriums,
4. Controlling, regularizing, supervision and levying charges from Funeral Service Centers within the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela under motion No.1-33 dated 26.02.2016.
Secretary and officer of executing powers and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela.
At Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela,
31st August, 2016.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in me under Local Government Authorities Act, (Standard By-law) No.06 of 1952 to be
read with Sub section (03) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987, I here by resolve to implement the by – laws
such as 1. Creating Committee meetings within Pradeshiya Sabha. 2. Conducting meetings and submission of Periodical
returns and information, 3. Controlling , administration and levying charges from Crematoriums, 4. Controlling, regularizing ,
supervision and levying charges from funeral service Centers compiled and published in part (iv) (a) in the Gazette Notification
No.1930 / 6 dated 31.08.2015 of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka by the Minister of Local Government by virtue of
powers vested in the Minister of Local Government under Para (a) of Sub section (a) of Section 2 of Provincial Council Act
(Incident Provisions ) No.12 of 1989 to be read with Sub section (1) of Section (2) Local Government Authorities Act
(Standard By-law) No. 06 of 1952 Chapter 261 within the area of authority of Pradedhiya Sabha Polgahawela.
B
Y-LAW ON ESTABLISHING COMMITTEES AND CONDUCTING MEETINGS IN PRADESHIY A SABHA POLGAHAWELA
1. This by Law is cited as '' the by law on establishing committees and conducting meetings in Pradeshiya Sabha
relevant.
2. ( a) Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela may establish committees as set out in Sub section (1) of Section 12 of
pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and other committees for certain purposes decided from time to time by
the Pradeshiya Sabha and appoint members for the said committees.

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1396
(b) It shall be the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant to establish Four Committees for the following functions
set out in Sub section (2) of Section 12 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 :
(i) Financial and Policy Formulation,
(ii) Housing and Community Development,
(iii) Technical Service,
(iv) Environment and Facilities.
3. The members appointed for each committee in accordance with the above Section No. 2 shall consist of following
persons :-
(a) The number of members shall not be less than 1 /3 of the number of members of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(b) At least three persons residing within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha proficient on the matter
relevant to the committee,
(c) In consideration with the above number set out in (a) and (b) the minimum opportunity should be
provided for the women of the area of authority who are interested in the above field so as to represent
25 % of the membership,
(d) Notwithstanding the above 3 (c), if sufficient number of women members are not presented election of
members could be made from the members presented.
4. ( a) Appointment of members for the committee set out in Section No. 3 (a) shall be elected by an adoption of
resolution on or before the Annual General Meeting held in December.
(b) If members could not be elected in accordance with the above Section 4 (a) the relevant members should  be
elected at the first ensuing General Meeting of the Sabha.
(c) Any vacancy resulting from resignation from the office by any member or from termination of the tenure of
office of the member concerned of Pradeshiya Sabha, termination of membership of the committee by means
of death or any other cause it shall be the duty of such Pradeshiya Sabha to elect and appoint any member
at the next Pradeshiya Sabha General Meeting held subsequent to the date on which such vacancy is
resulted.
5. ( a) A chairman for each committee shall be appointed and he shall be elected by the members of the committee
at the first committee meeting.
(b) The person elected for the office of Chairman shall be a member of Pradeshiya Sabha for the time being.
(c) Tenure of office of the chairman of the committee shall be terminated by means of resignation from the office
of membership of the committee or death or termination from the office of Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
and the committee shall appoint another Chairman at the first ensuing committee meeting held subsequent
to such incident.
6. Notwithstanding the above Section 5, membership and office of Chairman of the Finance and Policy Building
Committee should be ex Officio entitled to the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
7. In case the absence of Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at any committee meeting :
(a) a member of Committee meeting from among those who are present ; or

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1397
(b) in the absence of any member of committee meeting, a person from among the others who are present shall
be elected as the Chairman by majority of votes.
8. ( a) The quorum of each committee shall be 1 /3 of the members elected for the committee and  when such 1 /3 is
a full number and a fraction the quorum shall be the upper full number next to such fraction.
(b) Absence of a committee member for 3 consecutive meetings without informing  will cause the termination of
his / her membership.
9. ( a) Every committee shall conduct meetings at least once a month.
(b) If the chairman of the committee intends to conduct a special committee meeting on a special reason,
members may be called within a certain month after informing the members.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Chairman of the Committee to call a special committee meeting on a request made
to the Chairman by not less than 1 /3 of its members.
(d) It shall be duty of the Secretary to the committee to inform the members about the committee meeting at least
03 days prior to the Scheduled date of conducting the meeting.
10. (a) The office of the Secretary to the Committee of Finance and Policy Building shall be held by the Secretary of
the Pradeshiya Sabha. In case the Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha is absent , the duty of the Secretary of the
Committee shall be held by any other officer who executes the acting duty of the office of the Secretary of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Relevant for the time being.
(b) The office of Secretary to the committees excluding the committee of Finance and Policy Formulation shall
be assigned to an Officer of Pradeshiya Sabha appointed by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha on the
recommendation of the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
11. (a) The Secretary to each committee shall maintain the attendance register of the members participate at the
committee meeting and the agenda of the committee meeting should correspond to the agenda of the General
Meeting of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
(b) It shall be the duty of the Secretary to each committee to maintain a  record of resolutions moved at each
committee meeting and it shall be the responsibility of the Secretary to supervise it. It shall be signed by the
Chairman of the committeee after seconding such report at the ensuing meeting.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Secretary to the committee to refer the final decision taken regarding a specific
matter by any committee to the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha in order to submit the same at the ensuing
General meeting of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
(d) Implementation of a dicision taken by a committee regarding any matter authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha
Relevant, shall be tabled at the Pradeshiya Sabha meeting and approval of the Pradeshiya  Sabha shall be
obtained for the execution of the other decisions.
12. The committee shall have the power to call for, required documents and books owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha
Relevant to the said committee meeting for examination in order to make certain decision at  any committee
meeting.
13. The power vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha Relevent for taking dicisions in regard to matters other than levying
Assessment Tax, Levying Tax, imposing charges and recovering any amount of money and obtaining a loan
shall be delegated on committees from time to time.

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1398
14. By laws in this part, unless the context otherwise requires –
"Committee" means committees mentioned in Section two and
"Member" means a member of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant and,
"Sabha" means the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant and,
"Secretary" means the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant or a person who executes the duties of the
Secretary.
15. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhalese, Tamil and English text of these By- laws the  Sinhalese text
shall Prevail.
B
Y-LAW ON SUBMISSION OF PERIODICAL RETURNS AND INFORMATION
1. This by-law is cited as the "by-law on submission of information of immovable property and periodical returns
of industries or enterprises located within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela for the
purpose of imposing levying and receiving assessment taxes and fees".
2. ( a) Every person who acquires any immovable property located in the area of authority of the Pradeshiya
Sabha relevant shall, within a period of three months from the date of such acquisition forward an application
substantially prepared in accordance with the specimen form given in this by law to the secretary in order
to get the information about such immovable property registered  at the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(b) Any person forwarding an application in the manner set out in paragraph (a) shall attach photocopies of
the following documents duly certified by a Notary Public along with the application :-
(i) Title deed of the relevant property.
(ii)Plan of the relevant deed of property prepared by a licensed surveyor.
(c) The title Deed and the relevant folios obtained within 14 days also shall be submitted with the application.
3. Every person who has already acquired any immovable property situated within the limits of Pradeshiya Sabha
relevant by the effective date of this by law shall act in the manner prescribed in by law No. 02 before the lapse
of one year from the effective date of this by law.
4. ( a) In the event of making any change on any immovable property and or the purposes for which any building
utilized therein by any property owner registered at the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant in the manner set out in
this by law, it shall be the duty of the owner of such immovable property to inform the Secretary in writing
before the lapse of one month after making such change.
(b) Any holder of any immovable property registered at the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant in the manner set out
in this by law, shall obtain permission from the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
(i) before preparing a sub-division plan of any immovable property,
(ii)before any new building is constructed on any land being an immovable property,
(iii)before making any changes of the profile of the building being an immovable property in the form of,
(1) adding any new part to the building, or
(2) demolition of any existing part, or
(3) adding any new part after demolishing any existing part, or
(4) demolishing the entire building and constructing a new building.

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1399
(c) It shall be the duty of any owner of immovable property registered at the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant to
inform the Secretary in writing about any change in his permanent address within fourteen days of such
change. Moreover, it shall be the duty of the Secretary to take action to amend the Register of immovable
property owners as soon as on receipt of such written notification, and to inform the owner of immovable
property in writing about such amendments.
5. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to maintain a register substantially prepared in accordance with the
specimen in the second Schedule under the provisions of this By law in respect of immovable property owners
and immovable property owned by them as per every application forwarded to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
6. ( a) It shall be lawful for the Secretary to request through a written notice from the owner or manager of any
industry or enterprise to confirm :
(i) The amount of receipts realized during a period of any year ; or
(ii) The business turnover during a period of any year ; or
(iii)The profits that could be accrued during a period of any year ; or
(iv) The amount of money received from any sale ; or
by a report certified before a Justice of Peace or a Commissioner for Oaths while carrying out the transactions
of the said enterprise or the industry, required for the computation of the tax or license fees to be paid to the
Pradeshiya Sabha when levying any tax by the Pradeshiya Sabha under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 or any license issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha on any enterprise or industry or sale carried out in
the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
(b)  Anybody who received a notice under paragraph ( a) by the Secretary shall take action to provide the
information expected by the notice to the Secretary within fourteen days of the receipt of such notice.
7. Any person who violates the orders in any Section of this by law shall be guilty of an offence and being
convicted by a Magistrate Court of law of porper jurisdiction shall be liable to a fine set out in Sub-section
122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and in case any person who is subjected to such fine continue
to repeat such offence or violation after being convicted by a Magistrate Court of law of proper jurisdiction shall
be liable to an additional fine set out in the aforesaid Sub-section.
8. In this By-law, unless any other meaning is sought -
"Manager" shall mean the lawful owner of any property, business or industry relating to these by laws or any
representative apres on behalf of the said owner or any person to whom the management has been entrusted
to in respect of the said property, business or industry and "Immovable property" shall mean any land and or
building or any condominium building and   "Property owner" means any person who is the sole owner of any
immovable property or in the event of there being more than one owner for any particular property, such
owners individually and collectively and it shall also include any other person resident in the property or
holding guardianship of the property for the time being.
"Immovable Property" mean any land or a building or a condominium building.
"Property owner" mean any person who is the sole owner of any immovable property or in the event of there
being more than one owner for any particular property, such owners individually and collectively and it shall
also include any other person residing in the property or holding guardianship or the property for the time
being.
"Secretary" shall mean the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
"Periodical returns" shall mean records relating to a specific period as set out in Section six ; and

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1400
"Sabha" shall mean the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
9. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhalese, Tamil and English text of these By-laws the Sinhalese text
shall prevail.
FIRST SCHEDULE
PARAGRAPH (A) OF SECTION No. 2
Presenting information on the immovable property located within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant
(Separate applications should be submitted for each property)
01. ( a) Name/ Names of the owner/ owners of property :
1. ...............................................
2. ...............................................
3. ...............................................
(b) Address/ Addresses of the property owner/ owners :
1. ...............................................
2. ...............................................
3. ...............................................
(c) Contact Number :–––––––––––.
(d) No. and name of the Grama Niladhari Division where the property is located :–––––––––––.
(e) Name of the Street or Village where the property is located :–––––––––––.
(f) Assessment No. :–––––––––––.
(g) Number indicated in the Deed :–––––––––––.
(h) Extent of the Land: ............Acres ............... Roods ...................... Perches (Hectares :–––––––––––.)
(i) Name/ and address of the Notary Public :–––––––––.
2. Name of the land registration Office/ Folio No. :–––––––––––.
3. ( a) If the property is a land, whether any building has been constructed on the property :- Yes/ No :–––––––––––.
(b) If the answer is "yes" whether building is a single building or a condominium building :–––––––––––.
4. Date of acquisition of the property :–––––––––––.
5. Purpose for which the property is used : Residential/ Business or Commercial activities :–––––––––––.
6. Building Plan No. ............ approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha :–––––––––––.
7. Mention the following information of the Title Certificate :
(a) Date :–––––––––––.
(b) Name of the Notary Public :–––––––––––.
(c) Address of the Notary Public :–––––––––––.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Property Owner.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1401
SECOND SCHEDULE
SECTION 5
Pradeshiya Sabha Relevant
Register of immovable property
Date and Year
No.
Name/Names
Permanent address/addresses
Name of the street/village where the property is situated
Assessment No.
Name and No. of the Grama Niladhari Division
Extent of Land (Hectares)
Deed No.
Name of the  Land Registration Office / Folio No.
Name  and  address of the Notary Public
Whether a land or a building
If it is a building , License No.
Date
Name of the Notary Public
Address of the Notary Public
Date  of  acquisition of property
Purpose of using the property
Signature of the officer in charge of the subject
Signature  of the secretary and the date
Title certificate
submitted Date of
Registration
Name of
the
property
owner

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1402
BY- LAW ON REGULARIZING AND CONTROLLING OF CREMATORIUMS CONDUCIVE TO PUBLIC HEALTH AND
LEVYING FEES FROM CREMATORIUMS
1. This by-law is cited as the by-law on regularize and control of crematoriums conducive to public health and
levying fees from crematoriums of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
2. Notwithstanding anything stated in this By-law they should not be inconsistent with the provisions of the
Public and private Crematorium Ordinance No. 57 of 1946.
3. ( a) No dead body shall be cremated in any crematorium owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant without a
license issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.
(b) Unless a Magistrate or an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths has granted permission to cremate a dead body on
completion of an inquiry made in respect of a deceased person by the said Magistrate or the Inquirer into
Sudden Deaths, under the Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979, the Chairman or the authorized
officer shall not accept it for cremation or issue a license to cremate it.
(c) Unless the relevant crematorium of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant has been named in the 7th column of the
Death Certificate of a deceased person, under "cause of Death and the place of the burial of cremation" the
Pradeshiya Sabha relevant or the Authorized Officer shall not accept the dead body for cremation or issue
a license to cremate it.
(d) Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall annually submit a list of places and addresses of crematoriums
situated within the area of Authority of Pradeshiya Sabha relevant to the District Secretary.
4. ( a) While it is possible to determine on a resolution approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha  the charges for the
cremation of a dead body it shall be lawful to amendment of charges from time to time on such approval of
a resolution.
(b) While charges levied or amended from time to time under paragraph (a) above shall be published in the
Gazette it shall be prominently displayed at the place where applications are accepted for booking the
crematorium and at the crematorium.
(c) The charges for the cremation of a dead body shall be levied under the classification set out in the first
schedule of this part.
5. Anybody wishes to obtain a license mentioned in Section 3 (hereinafter referred to as "the applicant") shall
forward an application substantially prepared in accordance with the second schedule in this part together with
the documents mentioned below to the Chairman or the Authorized Officer who is not the Crematorium Keeper.
(a) In order to ensure the identity of the applicant either certificate of the following should be forwarded.
(i) National Identity Card of the applicant or,
(ii) Driving License of the Applicant or,
(iii) Valid Passport of the Applicant
(b) Death Certificate of the deceased or Death Notice issued under Section (b) of 41.1 of Births and Deaths
Registration Ordinance of Format B - 24 issued by the Grama Niladhari.
(c) If an inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979 had been made in respect of the death
of the deceased, the certificate issued by the Magistrate or the Inquirer-into- Sudden Deaths under paragraph
41(e) of the Registration of Births and Deaths Ordinance giving permission to cremate the dead body or the

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1403
certificate issued under paragraph 43(b) of the Registration of Births and Deaths Ordinance, in the event of
the dead body being of a still born person, and
6. In the event of a decision being arrived at to issue a license on an application made for permission to cremate a
dead body, it shall be the duty of the Chairman or the Authorized Officer to register the death in the sequence
of such applications are received in a Register substantially prepared according to the Third Schedule to this
part. This Register shall be maintained at the Office of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant where applications are
accepted.
7. ( a) In the event of accepting any dead body other than a dead body for which action to be taken has been
decided by the Court for cremation in accordance with the application forwarded, the applicant shall be
issued with the license by the Chairman or the Authorized Officer subsequent to levying a fee according to
Section 4. According to the license the time and date of handing over the dead body to be cremated to the
Crematorium Keeper should be clearly specified in the relevant license.
(b) In the event of a dead body being not accepted for cremation due to a certain reason, the chairman or the
Authorized Officer shall inform the applicant in writing specifying the reasons for such non-acceptance at
the same time on which  the application is furnished.
8. ( a) Dead bodies shall be accepted for cremation and cremations shall be done between the periods from 7.00
a.m. to 7.00 p.m. on all days of the week.
(b) A daily time table of carrying out cremations shall be displayed in a prominent place at the premises of the
crematorium.
9. The dead body shall be handed over to the Crematorium Keeper on or before the time specified in the license
issued. The Pradeshiya Sabha relevant, the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall not be responsible for any
inconvenience or loss caused to the applicant or anybody else having rights over the deceased, due to the
failure of handing over the dead body on time.
10. The Crematorium Keeper shall maintain a Register substantially prepared in accordance with the Fourth Schedule
to this part, in regard to each dead body cremated in any crematorium.
11. ( a) If the applicant wishes to obtain ashes of the dead body cremated, It shall be stated in the application set
out in the 2nd schedule and it shall be the duty of the applicant to handover a receptacle sufficient for the
collection of ashes to the crematorium keeper at the time of dead body is handed over for cremation. The
applicant or any authorized representative of him shall take possession of the ashes of the body before the
elapse of seventy two hours after the cremation of any dead body.
(b) However, on a written request made by the applicant the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall extend the
period during which the ashes are kept with the Crematorium Keeper. The period of such extension shall not
be more than the seven days from the date of the cremation.
(c) The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or the Crematorium Keeper shall have the power to dispose of the
ashes that had not been removed even after the expiry of such period granted for the removal of ashes.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Crematorium Keeper to take action to bury the ashes those not accepted by any
applicant or any authorized representative at the crematorium premises of the crematorium or in any burial
ground.
12. ( a) Nobody other than the Crematorium Keeper or his Assistants shall enter into the covered section of the
chamber of the Crematorium after the closure of the security door of the chamber on placing in the dead
body into the chamber of any Crematorium.

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1404
(b) Nobody shall enter into the premises of any crematorium without permission from the Chairman, Authorized
Officer or the Crematorium Keeper.
(c) Notwithsanding anything stated in paragraph ( b):-
(i) Any other person or persons who participate in the handing over of a dead body for cremation with the
person who had obtained a license to cremate the dead body or with his authorized representative; and
(ii) Any other person or persons arrive at the crematorium on the specified date or earlier to receive ashes,
with the person who had obtained the license or with his authorized representative, shall be considered
as persons who have been allowed to enter the premises of the crematorium.
13. Within the premises of any crematorium nobody shall -
(a) Act in a manner disrupting peace;
(b) Damage or try to damage property within the premises of the crematorium belonging to Pradeshiya Sabha;
(c) Obstruct the official functions of the Crematorium Keeper or any of his Assistants;
(d) Decorate or paste notice within the premises of the crematorium.
14. ( a) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to maintain and operate the crematoriums in conditions (temperature of
the crematorium) appropriate for cremation of dead bodies;
(b) In the event of the closer of any crematorium for the purpose of repairs or maintenance activities, it shall be
the duty of the Chairman to display prominently a notice on it in all the three languages at the Office issuing
licenses for cremation of dead bodies and at the entrance to the crematorium premises.
(c) A notice indicating the amount of gas consumed for the cremation of a dead body shall be caused prepares
and display.
(d) In case of non-operation of the crematorium in the manner that the dead body accepted for cremation is
cannot be cremated completely, the decision taken by the Chairman to cremate such dead body with timber
or to bury the remaining in the burial ground shall be lawful. It shall be the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to
make sufficient arrangements in respect of that.
(e) A meter shall be installed to observe the amount of gas burnet.
(f) It shall be lawful to obtain a report in respect of the standards of the crematorium from time to time by a
qualified person.
15. Certificate of clearance issued by the Provincial Environment Authority should be obtained before the
establishment of a new crematorium and Annual Environment Protection License should be obtained for the
maintenance of the crematorium and in respect of crematoriums already established should obtain the Annual
Environment Protection License from the ensuing year after accepting these by laws by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
16. Any person who violates the orders in these Sections shall be guilty of an offence and being convicted by a
Magistrate Court of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to a fine set out in Sub section 122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha
Act No. 15 of 1987 and in case any person who is subjected to such fine continue to repeat such offence or
violation after being convicted by a Magistrate court of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to an additional fine
set out in the aforesaid Sub section.

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1405
17. In these by-laws unless any other meaning is sought, -
"Cremation chamber" means the chamber where the dead body is kept and the outer chamber constructed
outside the main chamber;
"Crematorium" means a place consists of two chambers that can be operated by liquid Pressure (L.P.) gas or a
space consist of two chambers that a dead body could be totally burnt at a time by an electric bulb ;
"Temperature of a Crematorium" means the minimum temperature of 800 Celsius that can be maintained in the
cremation chamber and the temperature that should be maintained up to 1000 Celsius at the time of cremation
of the dead body ;
"Crematorium premise" means the whole crematorium and the land on which it is located;
"Crematorium Keeper" means any employee appointed to be in-charge of the crematorium of the Pradeshiya
Sabha and its functions;
"Applicant" means any applicant who makes a request to the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha for the cremation
of any dead body ;
"Authorized Officer" means an officer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha to discharge
his duties ;
"Remains" means any matter left behind after cremating a dead body, any part of the coffin which was not fully
burnt where the dead body was kept;
"Dead body" means a dead body of a deceased person or the dead body of a still born person ;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant;
"Sabha" means the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
18. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhalese, Tamil and English text of these By-Laws the Sinhalese text
shall prevail.
FIRST SCHEDULE
S
ECTION NO.  4
SCHEDULE  ON  FEES  FOR  THE  USE  OF  CREMATORIUM
Batch Classification of levying fees V alue
Number Rs. cents
01. To cremate a dead body of an adult living in the area of authority of  Pradeshiya ................
Sabha relevant
02. To cremate a dead body of a person who is not adult living in the  area of authority ................
of Pradeshiya Sabha relevant
03. To cremate a dead body of an adult living outside the area of authority of Pradeshiya ................
Sabha Polgahawela
04. To cremate dead body of a person who is not an adult, living outside the area of ................
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha relevant

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1406
05 To cremate a dead body of an adult of a low income family resided in the area of authority ................
of Pradeshiya Sabha relevant recommended  by the Divisional Secretary
06 To cremate a dead body of a person who is not an adult of a low  income family resided ................
in the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha relevant recommended by the Divisional
Secretary
A child below the age of 12 years is considered here as a person who is not an adult.
SECOND  SCHEDULE
S
ECTION NO.  5
(To be forwarded in duplicate) (Front Page)
APPLICATION  FOR  A  LICENCE  TO  CREMATE  A  DEAD  BODY  AT  THE  CREMATORIUM  OF
………………………………………………. PRADESHIYA  SABHA
01. Name in full of the applicant :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
No. and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
02. Full Name of the deceased :–––––––––––.
Sex :–––––––––––.
Address of the place of residence :–––––––––––.
National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
No. and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
Batch Number for which the applicant belongs to
(If you belong the Batch Number 05 or 06 relevant Documents should be submitted for confirmation)
03. Applicant's relationship to the deceased :–––––––––.
(Please annex a certificate stated in paragraph (a) of By-law No. 5 in order to establish the relationship)
04. Registration No. and Date of the Death Certificate :–––––––––––.
(Annex a copy of the Death Certificate)
05. Name and Division of the Registrar of Deaths :–––––.
06. Cause of Death :–––––––––––.
07. In the event of an inquiry being held into the Death :-
(Annex the Certificate stated in paragraph (b) of By-law No. 5)
Name and Designation of the Inquiring Officer :––––.
Date of Inquiry :–––––––––––.
Observation of the Inquiring Officer :–––––––––––.
Has the Inquiring officer given permission to cremate the dead body ? :–––––––––––.
08. Date and time applied for the cremation (According to the sequence of preference) :
Date Time Date Time
(1) … 20…. …. Hours (2) .... 20…. …… Hours
(3) ….20..... …. Hours (4) … 20…. …… Hours
Batch Classification of levying fees V alue
Number Rs. cents

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1407
09. Do you wish to accept remaining after the cremation ? :–––––––––––.
(If you wish to accept remaining, sufficient receptacles should be  handed over at the time of handing over the dead
body for cremation.)
I hereby certify that the information stated above is true and accurate. I further state that I take the full responsibility
for the information given here. Relevant certificates are annexed.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date : ……………20…………
SECOND  SCHEDULE
(Overleaf)
Mr. /Mrs./ Miss ...............................................
Sir/ Madam / Miss
Refusal to issue a license to cremate a dead body.
It is regretted to inform you that the issuing of a license in accordance with the application overleaf forwarded by
you have been refused due to the following reasons :
(i) ....................................................
(ii) ....................................................
(iii)....................................................
(iv) ....................................................
(v) ....................................................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Chairman/ Authorized Officer.
(Please affix the official frank).
Date : ……………20…………
__________________________________________________________________________________________
Crematorium Keeper
…………………….. Crematorium
License issued for the cremation of a dead body
(a) Permission is hereby granted to cremate the dead body of ………………………….. at ………………… a.m./p.m.
on ……………… 20 ………….. at the …………………… Crematorium.
(b) The information given in the application overleaf has been entered in the Register according to By - law No. 6.
(c) A sum of Rs………………. has been charged by Receipt No. ……………………..Dated ............20 …………….
(d) Please take action to cremate the dead body after making necessary entries in the relevant Register as stated in
By-law No. 10 with reference to information given in this license.
(e) The Serial Number of the Permit Register is …………….
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Chairman/ Authorized Officer.
(Please affix the Official Frank)
Date : ……………20…………

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1408
Serial No.
Serial No. of the application
Name of the deceased
N. I. C. Number
Sex
Date of Death
No.
Date
Name
Relationship to the
deceased
Address
N. I. C. Number
Reference No.
Date
No.
Date
Time
Death Certificate
Registration
Applicant's
Order of the Magistrate/Inquire
into Sudden Death
Receipt
Cremation
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Amount
Rs.       Cents
(N. B. Sufficient space shall be provided in the columns in order to note down the information by using both the left and right pages of
the register)
THIRD SCHEDULE
SECTION No. 06
Register of License issued to cremate Dead Bodies at the Crematorium of Pradeshiya Sabha .............................

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1409
FOURTH SCHEDULE
SECTION No. 10
Register License issued to cremate Dead Bodies at the Crematorium of Pradeshiya Sabha .............................
(N. B. Sufficient space shall be provided in the columns in order to note down the information by using both the left and right pages of
the register)
Serial No.
Serial No. of the application
Name of the deceased
N. I. C. Number
Sex
Serial No. of the Register of License
Date of Death
No.
Date
Name
N. I. C. Number
No.
Date
Time
Applicant's
Receipt
Cremation
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Amount
Rs.       Cents
Death Certificate Registration
Date on which ash brought
Signature of the Crematorium Keeper

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1410
BY-LAW ON CONTROLING, REGULARIZING, SUPERVISING AND LEVYING CHARGES FROM FUNERAL SERVICE CENTERS
1. This by-law is cited as "the by-law on control, regularize, supervise and levying charges from funeral service
supply centers within the area of the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant."
2. ( a) Unless a valid license signed by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant has been obtained by
forwarding an application substantially prepared in accordance with the specimen set out in the First
Schedule hereto issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha no person shall maintain a Funeral Service Supply Center
within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(b) Every license issued under the provisions of this Section shall be valid up to 31 st December of the  year
unless it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of this Section and such license shall not be authorized
to anybody.
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha shall levy a fee decided from time to time by the Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of a license
issued for a Funeral Service Supply Center maintained within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha and
such amount of fee shall be published in the Gazette Paper.
4. In the case of neglecting or violation of an order or orders set out in this by laws, it shall be lawful for the
chairman to cancel the license issued for the maintenance of the said funeral service center upon the decision of
the General Council.
5. There shall be a separate room for preparing dead bodies in the building where a funeral service center is
maintained and the room shall have at least space not below eighty square feet to prepare one dead body.
Moreover, a concrete slab sufficient for the use of such task shall be made available and it shall be tiled and
finished well.
6. ( a) Certificate of Clearance issued by the Provincial Environment Authority before the establishment of the
Funeral Service Center should be obtained and Annual Environment Protection License should be obtained
for the maintenance of Funeral Service Centers.
(b) Funeral Service Centers already underway should obtain Environment Protection License from the ensuing
year after adopting this by law.
7. The windows allowing fresh air to a degree not less than one seventh of the area of the particular room where the
dead bodies are prepared shall be made available and the work connected to it shall not be opened to be seen by
any outsider. Moreover, the windows shall not be directly opened to the occupants or office premises where the
Funeral Service Center is located.
8. Sufficient receptacles to temporarily dump parts of the dead body removed in the process of preparing them
shall be made available, and non-translucent and non-transparent receptacles that could be securely closed so
as to prevent the entry of files, rats or other animals and receptacles shall also be provided to collect blood
flowing out of the dead body while it is being prepared or other-fluids or waste water generated in the event of
the body being washed.
9. If an order has not been issued by a Magistrate or an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths is respect of a dead body,
parts of the body removed in the process of preparation shall be securely interred in a pit of four feet depth from
the ground level before the lapse of six hours after the completion of preparatory activities. If such order has
been given the owner of the Funeral Service Center Shall act in accordance with such order.

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1411
10. When there is no sufficient space at the Funeral Service Centre to carry out the activities mentioned in the
Section 9 action shall be taken to securely inter the body parts at the aforesaid depth at the public cemetery of
the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment of a fee decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
11. The room where the dead bodies are prepared shall always be located separate from the ex-position hall or halls
of the Funeral Service Centre and action shall be taken to prevent outsiders other than an employee entering
without permission.
12. The room where the dead bodies are prepared shall be maintained cleanly always having applied disinfectants,
Moreover, sufficient first aid materials and other instruments for hygiene and sanitation shall be made available
for the use of the staff when necessary.
13. It shall be an offence to use any material and equipment possible to record sound or vision or to take photos
other than the equipment used for the preparation of dead bodies within the premises where bodies are prepared.
14. It shall be the duty of the licensee to maintain records of the members of the staff employed at the Funeral
Service Supply Centre. He shall supply safety dresses, face masks and gloves in the manner prescribed by the
Pradeshiya Sabha to all the workers employed in the rooms where dead bodies are prepared and ensure that
these employees wear those safety dresses and other apparatus when preparing dead bodies as well as any
food or beverage shall not be served in those rooms.
15. The interior of the vehicle or vehicles transporting dead bodies shall be constantly cleaned with vacuum
cleaners and disinfected.
16. Polythene or any other non-decaying material shall not be used to cover the inside of a coffin or the entire dead
body or a part of the dead body unless the dead bodies are in such a condition as impossible to prepare due to
excessive injuries caused or due to any other reason.
17. No person other than the person who has obtained a license under this by law or anybody duly authorized by
the licensee shall prepare or transport any dead body.
18. The Manager of the Funeral Service Supply Center shall be responsible for every activity carried out during
open hours of the institute and any person authorized should be appointed in writing by him when he is
personally absent from the institute.
19. Unless written permission is granted to the licensee by the Medical Officer of Health Service under the conditions
prescribed by him, no person shall bring or allow anybody else to bring a dead body of a person
presumed to have died due to cholera, plaque, smallpox, yellow fever or aids to the licensed center.
20. No dead body shall be accepted by the licensee for preparation and organize funeral arrangements, unless a
formal death certificate issued by the Registrar of Deaths or a Death Notice issued under Section 41.1 (a) of
Births and Deaths Ordinance or a format b- 24 on the particular death issued by Grama Niladhari has been
forwared to the licensee.
21. When such death is a sudden death or when the death is suspicious, if there is any order in regard to final
proceedings of any dead body issued by a Magistrate or an  Inquire into the sudden death, the owner of the
funeral service center shall carry out such provisions of that order.

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1412
22. It shall be the duty of the licensee to obtain information of the client through an application substantially
prepared in conformity with the specimen form given in the Second Schedule hereto and maintain an  information
register substantially prepared in conformity with the specimen form given in the Third Schedule hereto in
respect of every preparation of dead body and supply of funeral services carried out in the licensed premises or
in any external premises and to submit it for perusal on demand by the Chairman or by an Authorized Officer.
23. In case of a funeral service center maintaining services in keeping dead bodies for public homage, action shall
be taken to exhibit the bodies in a manner preserving the dignity of the dead person as well as the owners of the
dead body and action shall be taken to provide a sufficient number of chairs for the convenience of the people
arrive to pay last respects to the dead body and to allocate parking facilities for the vehicles of such guests. It
shall be the duty of licensee to maintain the place where a dead body is kept for public homage cleanly any
hygienically.
24. The place where the dead bodies are kept for public homage shall be separate from the exposition hall of the
service center and the room where the bodies are prepared.
25. Nobody shall perform any activity within the premises of the funeral services center that would cause harm or
inconvenience to residents living close to the funeral service center, or allow such things to happen.
26. In case natural flowers are displayed or kept for sale in a funeral service center, the waste should be disposed in
a manner that satisfies the Chairman.
27. In the event of impossible to act in accordance with Section 26 such parts may be disposed into any garbage bin
or garbage collecting vehicle of the Pradeshiya Sabha or in a manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha on
payment of a fee decided by Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
28. Disposal of parts of flowers, plant, wires, synthetic, flowers, polythene or any waste set out in Section 26 into
any road or a drain situated along a road or any public place shall be an offence.
29. Powers and duties vested in the Chairman by under this by law may be entrusted to any Officer of the Pradeshiya
Sabha in writing.
30. The Chairman or any officer authorized by him shall have the power to enter and inspect any Funeral Service
Center situated within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha on any day or during the open hours of the
funeral service center as set out in Schedule one to confirm whether the conditions are properly followed in
accordance with the manner set out in this by law.
31. In case it is revealed in an inspection carried out in a Funeral Service Supply Center by Chairman or the officer
authorized by him that the said place is maintained in a manner violating the provisions of this by law it shall be
lawful to inform the owner of the place by a notice to correct such violation during a specific period.
32. Delivery of the notice set out in Section 31 may be deemed to have been correctly done if such notice is
delivered to the owner of the place either personally or by fixing the notice in the place.
33. Every person who has received the notice set out in the Section 31 shall abide by the conditions within the
period specified therein.
34. In case of violation of the notice set out in Section 31 by any person, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel
such license issued for the maintenance of such Funeral Service Supply Center.
35. This by law and a price notice including the services provided by the relevant service supply center should be
displayed in a prominent place to be clearly seen at the Funeral Service Supply Center.

<!-- page 43 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1413
36. Any person who violates the orders in the notice set out in Section 31 shall be guilty of an offence and being
convicted by a Magistrate Court of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to a fine set out in Sub-section 122(2) of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and in case any person who is subjected to such fine continue to repeat
such offence or violation after being convicted by a Magistrate court in the jurisdiction shall be liable to an
additional fine set out in the aforesaid Sub-section.
37. In this Sections, unless the context otherwise requires -
"Funeral Service Supply Center" means a center where a dead body is prepared so as to pre serve it for some time
or where a dead body is prepared for last rites or place where a dead body is kept for a fee until it is taken to
the cemetery for last rites ;
"Medical Officer of Health" means the Medical Officer of Health appointed by the Department of Health for
covering the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha relevant;
"Area of Authority" means area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant;
"Authorized Officer" means any officer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant
to discharge any duty or responsibility vested by this By-law.
"Parts of the dead body" means any limb removed from the body of a dead person, or part of a limb or internal
organ or blood flowing out of the body or any other fluid or any dress or dresses worn by the person at the
time of death or any part of such dress or bandages, gauze or any other thing found in an injured part of the
body.
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
"Sabha" means the Pradeshiya Sabha relevant.
"Preparing" means preparing a dead body of a person so as to preserve it for some time in order to pay last
respects, dressing a dead body, placing the body in a coffin and doing any other thing in this regard.
"Owner" means the owner of a Funeral Service Supply Center or the manager of the said place or the office in
charge for the time being or any person who maintains the said place.
"Public places" are defined as any road, street, lane, foot path, pavement, common land, road reservation,
playground, public building, public cemetery, a bus stand, a railway station, a river, canal, stream, lake, pond,
bay, water hole, water stream, rain water drainage, shore, a land belonged to a Pradeshiya Sabha, a land of the
government reserved for public utility or any other place that is subjected for public utility.
38. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhalese, Tamil and English text of these by-laws the Sinhalese text
shall prevail.
SCHEDULE NO. 01
SUB PARAGRAPH (i) OF SECTION 02
Application for a Licence to Maintain a Funeral Service Supply Center
1. Name of the applicant :––––––––.
2. Address :––––––––.
3. National Identity Card No. :––––––––.

<!-- page 44 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1414
4. The business name of the Funeral Service Centre and the Address :––––––––.
5. Assessment Number of the place where Funeral Service Center is being maintained :––––––––.
6. Number of dead bodies that can be kept for preparation at a time :––––––––.
7. Number of hearses owned by the institution registration numbers :––––––––.
8. Number of vehicles available for transport of bodies before preparation :––––––––.
9. Manner in which parts of the body removed are disposed :––––––––.
10. Have you obtained an Environment Protection License :––––––––.
11. Have you fulfilled the requirements of Sections 05 and 07 :––––––––.
12. Hours opened for Funeral Service Supply :–––––––.
13. In the event of acceptance of dead bodies for display :
(i) Number of dead bodies that could be displayed at a time :––––––––.
(ii) Number of vehicles of the visitors that could be parked at a time :––––––––.
14. Whether natural flowers are kept for sale : Yes/No :
15. The manner in which rejected flowers or plants are expected to be disposed :––––––––.
16. Number of permanent employees of the institution :    ––––––––.
17. If a manager has been appointed :
(i) Name of the Manager :––––––––.
(ii) National Identity Card Number :––––––––.
(iii) Address :––––––––.
(iv) Contact Number :––––––––.
18. On placing my signature below I hereby accept that I agree to fully comply with the provisions in the by-laws in
relating to regularize, supervise and control of funeral service centers and to comply with the other sanitary provisions
prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
–––––––––––––,
Date :––––––––. Signature of the Applicant.
For office use only
1. I hereby declare that the particulars contained in this application are true and application is recommended for
approval for the maintenance of a Funeral Service Supply Center.
2. I do hereby reject the application for maintenance of a Funeral Service Supply Center due to the following
grounds :
(i) ...............................
(ii) ...............................
(iii) ...............................
(iv) ...............................
(v) ...............................
Particulars of the Public Health Inspector :
Name :––––––––.
Signature :––––––––.
Date :––––––––.

<!-- page 45 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1415
SCHEDULE NO. 02
SECTION 22
Specimen Form for hand over the dead body to the funeral service supply center
1. Name of the deceased :–––––––––––.
2. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
3. Sex :–––––––––––.
4. Date of expired :–––––––––––.
5. Date of registration of death :
(i) Date :–––––––––––.
(ii) No. :–––––––––––.
6. Date of handing over the dead body :
(i) Date :–––––––––––.
(ii) No. :–––––––––––.
7. Particulars of the guardian of the dead body :
(i) Name :–––––––––––.
(ii) No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Relationship to the deceased :–––––––––––.
(iv) Address :–––––––––––.
(v) National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
(vi) Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
8. Particulars of inquire into Death/Magistrate :
(i) Reference Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date :–––––––––––.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Guardian.
Date : .......20 ...........

<!-- page 46 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1416
SCHEDULE NO. 03
SECTION No. 44
Register on Dead bodies prepared at the Funeral Service Center
Name of the Funeral Service Center :............................
Address :.............................
09–967
Death Acceptance Owner of the Dead Body Order of the
Certificate of Death Inquirer in to
Body Sudden Death/
Magistrate
No. Date Name Time Name Relations Address NIC Reference Date
hip to the No. No.
deceased
Serial No.
Serial No. of the application
Name of the diseased
N. I. C. Number of the deceased
Gender
Date of Death

<!-- page 47 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1417
Revenue & Expenditure Returns
NATHTHANDIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Declaration of Financial Report
BY virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, W. D. Lution
the secretary who executes and discharges duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Naththandiya do hereby notify that I have decided
to declare the Financial Report No. 6858 dated 12.08.2018 ended on 31.12.2015.
Secretary and officer of executing powers and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha Naththandiya.
Pradeshiya Sabha Naththandiya,
12th August, 2016.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in me under Section 9(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, and in terms of
provision No. 216 of Pradeshiya Sabha Regulations (Financial and Administrative) of 1988, I have decided to declare the
audited Financial Operating Statement ended on 31.12.2015, Financial Status Statement as at 31.12.2015 and Financial Flow
Statement ended on 31.12.2015 of Naththandiya Pradeshiya Sabha set out in the following schedules for public information.
S
CHEDULE I
Financial Operating Statement ended on 31.12.2015.
SCHEDULE II
Financial Status Statement as at 31.12.2015
SCHEDULE III
Financial Flow Statement ended on 31.12.2015
Schedule I
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2015
Notes 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Operating Revenue
Government Contribution - Recurrent 01 67,581,633.07 53,862,863.73
Other Revenue 02 145,285,419.19 148,578,518.85
Total Operating Revenue 212,867,052.26 202,441,382.58
Operating Expenses
Recurrent Expenses 03 168,400,907.69 145,189,870.68
Total Operating Expenses 168,400,907.69 145,189,870.68
Operating Surplus/Deficit for the Year 44,466,144.57 57,251,511.90

<!-- page 48 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1418
Notes 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Capital Grants 04 47,270,309.82 42,730,278.80
Capital Expenses 05 113,8 29,968.11 91,017,021.85
Surplus/Deficit for the Year (22,093,513.72) 8,964,768.85
Schedule II
STA TEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS 31ST DECEMBER 2015
Notes 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Assets
Non-Current Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment 06 485,3 46,683.64 396,107,264.30
Current Assets
Stocks 07 4,493,190.97 4,160,414.76
Staff Debtors 08 11,646,698.23 10,779,616.37
Receivables 09 166,1 98,743.50 220,529,559.08
Investments 10 10,228,552.73 9,618,579.55
Cash and Equivalents 11 53,533,373.57 15,916,403.29
Total Assets 731,447,242.64 657,111,837.35
Liabities
Non-Current Liabilities 12 14,308,608.13 7,185,363.17
Current Liabilities 13 53,521,834.83 102,293,345.87
Equity 14 663,6 16,799.68 547,633,128.31
Total Equity and Liabilities 731,447,242.64 657,111,837.35
Schedule III
CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2015
31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Cash flows from operating activities :
Surplus/(Deficit) from ordinary Activities 44,466,144.57 57,251,511.90
Adjustments for Non-cash Movements – –
Depreciation – –
Provisions - Gratuity – –
Prior year Adjustments 48,837,765.75 3,087,201.03
Operating Surplus before working Capital Changes 93,303,910.32 60,338,712.93

<!-- page 49 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1419
PRADESHIYA SABHA - POLGAHAWELA
Levying Charges for Letting Town Hall - 2016
BY virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I,
Jayasinghe Mudiyanselage Nimal Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela who execute powers and
discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela do hereby determine that, imposing charges for letting Town Hall
for the year 2016 of Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela should be as follows under the resolution No.  05.01.47 dated 31.05.2016.
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela.
Pradeshiya Sabha Polgahawela,
31st August, 2016.
(Increase)/Decrease in Inventories/Debtors/Other 52,520,984.33 (26,274,805.95)
Increase/(Decrease) in Creditors/Payables (48,771,511.04) 20,541,890.88
01. Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities 97,053,383.61 54,605,797.86
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Acquisition of Property/Removals of Property (89,239,419.34) (50,272,694.14)
Capital Expenses (24,590,548.77) (40,744,327.71)
02. Net Cash Flows from Investing Activities (1 13,829,968.11) (91,017,021.85)
Cash Flows from Financial Activities
Capital Grant 47,270,309.82 42,730,278.80
Loan Re-Payment 7,123,244.96 (2,815,358.02)
03. Net Cash Flows from Financial Activities 54,393,554.78 39,914,920.78
Net Movement during the year (1+2+3) 37,616,970.28 3,503,696.79
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the begging of period 15,916,403.29 12,412,706.50
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of period Note 'A' 53,533,373.57 15,916,403.29
Note  A
Bank of Ceylon - Current Account 52,330,982.75 14,786,961.29
Bank of Ceylon - Savings Account 695,796.80 515,381.93
Cash in Hand – 102,929.09
Stamp Account 4,199.00 2,890.00
Return Cheques Account 502,395.02 508,240.98
53,533,373.57 15,916,403.29
09–791
31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Miscellaneous Notices

<!-- page 50 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'23
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
1420
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Surety 1st Day 2nd Day 3rd Day or for
deposit every exceeding
day after the
3rd day
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01 For a film show for a business purpose per day 5,000 0 12,000 0 10,000 0 5,000 0
02 In an instance where the chairman/secretary 5,000 0 11,000 0 9,000 0 4,000 0
satisfies that the public performance is in favour
of a non-business idea such as religious,
educational, donation, cultural or a charity fund
03 For a wedding or another private ceremony 5,000 0 18,000 0 15,000 0 10,000 0
04 For a fair or a carnival that is not considered as 5,000 0 15,000 0 14,000 0 10,000 0
a business purpsoe
05 For a public dinner or a lunch or an organized 5,000 0 15,000 0 14,000 0 10,000 0
ceremony conducted by levying money from
the participants
06 For a rehearsal of a public performance 5,000 0 15,000 0 14,000 0 10,000 0
conducted by reserving the town hall
07 Discussions, forums, meetings, lectures, prize 5,000 0 8,500 0 4,000 0 3,800 0
giving ceremonies or religious trainings
08 Any objective whatsoever conducted in favour 5,000 0 16,000 0 15,000 0 10,000 0
of business purpose not specified above
09–879