

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
T. B. TENNAKOON  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)  ACT,  No. 26 OF 2006
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 21st August, 2006]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 25, 2006

<!-- page 2 -->

1T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 2006
[Certified on 21st August, 2006]
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  T. B. TENNAKOON  FOUNDA TION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “T. B.
Tennakoon Foundation” has heretofore been established at
Dambulla, in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all objects and matters connected with the
said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the T. B. Tennakoon
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 26  of 2006.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this  Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members  of  the
T.B. Tennakoon Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession under the name and style of  the
“T. B. Tennakoon Foundation”, (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and authority to have, and use a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
 3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to organise, maintain and uplift the educational
activities and- pre training programmes for the poor
children and youth, who have no educational
facilities ;
(b) to find opportunities for training in pre-vocational
education in the fields of sports, computer training
and mass-media ;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the T. B.
Tennakoon
Foundation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 2006
(c) to teach English, Tamil and other languages to needy
students ;
(d) to provide assistance to deserving students by way
of providing scholarships, loans and grants to pursue
studies and research in Sri Lanka and abroad ;
(e) to establish libraries, archives and cultural centres
to preserve and protect the cultural heritage of all
communities in Sri Lanka ;
(f) to establish a research centre and a museum to
perpetuate the memory of late T. B. Tennakoon ;
(g) to establish and maintain institutions for the welfare
and rehabilitation of  destitute,  disabled,  aged,
sick and displaced persons ;
(h) to utilize the youth labour for the welfare of the
general public ;
(i) to train persons for leadership ;
(j) to encourage the farmers and to establish societies
of young farmers ;
(k) to encourage the persons engaged in the activities
for the furtherance of national unity by conducting
seminars, discussions and workshops ; and
(l) to commemorate or honour outstanding persons or
institutions who or which have contributed towards
national unity, by the grant of awards, prizes,
scholarships and fellowships.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to—
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 2006
(a) acquire, hold or take any immovable property for
the Corporation or give on lease or hire, mortgage,
pledge, sell, exchange or otherwise alienate,
encumber or dispose of any immovable property  of
the Corporation ;
(b) enter into and perform or carry out whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation ;
(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or in
kind ;
(d) advance or lend and to borrow money for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner and
upon such security as the Corporation may think
fit ;
(e) invest its funds, create and administer Trusts and to
maintain current, deposit and savings accounts in
any Bank ;
(f) publish or cause to be published books, journals,
magazines and other literature and establish and
maintain libraries, book shops and printing presses ;
(g) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise displinary control
over officers and servants required for the carrying
out of the objects of the Corporation and to prescribe
their terms and conditions of service and dismiss
such officers ;
(h) generally do all such other acts and things as are
necessary for and incidental or conducive to the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules of the Corporation, to be made under section 6 of this
Act be administered by a Board of Management (hereinafter
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 2006
referred to as “the Board”) consisting of the Chairman, the
Vice Chairman, the Secretary, Assistant Secretary, the
Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer and nine other members elected
or appointed in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The First Board of the Corporation shall be the Board
of Management of the Foundation holding office on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the  members present and voting to make
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or  other
written law, for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of the office-bearers, the resignation
from, or vacation of or removal from, office of, office-
bearers and their powers, conduct and duties ;
(c) the election of the members of the Board and its
powers, conduct and duties and the terms of office
of the members of the Board and the filling of
vacancies of the members of the Board ;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, the times,
places, notices and agenda of such meetings, the
quorum therefore and the conduct of business
thereat ;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation ; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 2006
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule may be
made under subsection (1).
(3)  The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules for the time being of the Corporation.
7. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and either the Secretary or the Treasurer who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence,
and such sigining shall be  independent of the signing of any
person as a  witness.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall be
paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts due
to and subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation, shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
10. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due by and
payable to the
Foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 T. B. Tennakoon Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 2006
(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Charted Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by such Institute ;
or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by any one of
such Institutes.
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or any other
persons.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other Institute or Institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its or their members. Such Institute
or Institutions shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at or immediately before the dissolution of the
Corporation.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 8 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICA TIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.