

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  
ɼ  ලංකා  ȝජාතාǦƵක  සමාජවා Ǐ  ජනරජ ෙɏ  ගැසŸ  පƴ ය 
අƯ ɪෙශෂ   
අංක 2193/7 - 2020 සැȗතැȼබə මස 14 වැǧ සǿදා  - 2020.09.14 
 
No. 2193/7 –  MONDAY, SEPTEMBER  14, 2020 
EXTRAORDINARY 
 
PART I : SECTION (I)  —  GENERAL 
 
 
Government Notifications 
 
1st AMENDMENT 
 
SERVICE MINUTE OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS SERVICE 
 
 
The public Service Commission has ordered as follows to amend the Service Minute of the Public Healt h Management 
Assistants Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2053/18 dated 09th of January 2018 of the Democratic                 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 
 
 
                     Dr. S. H. MUNASINGHE, 
                                                                                                                       Secretary, 
                          Ministry of Health. 
 
Ministry of Health, 
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, 
Colombo 10. 
11th of September 2020 
 
 
1. Amendment of the column indicating the nature of the Efficiency Bar: Written/Professional/Certificate Course/
Other as  “Certificate Course of 120 hours (Annex 06)”  as against the column indicating 3rd Efficiency Bar                  
Examination in Table 8.1 of Section 8. 
 
2. The Annex 06 is as follows. 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
 1A - G 32890 - 25 (09/2020) 
(Published by Authority) 

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I ෙකʣටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2020.09.14 
PART I :  SECTION (I) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.09.2020 
 Name of the Course: Efficiency Bar Certificate Course of 120 hours for officers in Grade I of the Pu blic Health 
Management Assistants Service. 
 
    
  Subject of the Course Duration 
 
  (1) Establishments Procedure and Procedural Rules 35 hours 
  (2) Public Finance Management 35 hours 
  (3) Current Trends 25 hours 
  (4) Health Institutions and Hospital Administration 25 hours 
 
 
01. Particulars of the Course: (The Course should be completed within five years of the promotion to Grade I.) 
 
 The Course will be conducted in the media of Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.Officers should fo llow the 
Course in the medium of language they sat for  the examination to join  in the relevant service or one of the official 
languages. Those officers who joined in the service without a competitive examination should follow the Course in 
the language medium of their education or one of the official languages. 
 
2. Conducting Authority: An Institution approved by the Secretary of the Ministry of Health. 
 
3 Frequency at which the Course is conducted :Twice a year. 
 
4.      Syllabus of the Course. 
 
 
  Subject of the Course  Syllabus 
 
(1) Establishments Procedure and Procedural Rules Imparting of knowledge on matters containing a part to 
test the knowledge in office systems operating in                
Government offices and proficiency in experience gained 
in the office activities so as to cover up the subject areas 
such as fundamentals of office systems, their importance, 
written communication, documentation and compiling 
formats and a part on matters contained in Volume I of 
the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission 
and Volumes I and II of the Establishements Code. 
 
(2) Public Finance Management Imparting of knowledge and understanding of the subjects 
in Offices of Government Departments and Ministries 
such as financial control, custody of public finance,            
revenue and payments, budget estimates and supply 
works and services. (Basic knowledge on board of servey 
of goods and stock verification, store keeping, financial 
regulations, auditing and basic banking practice.) 
 
(3) Current Trends Examination of current awareness on local and                
international events and imparting of knowledge on new 
trends related to office management, new trends on               
delivery of services in the public service and good               
governance. 
   
(4) Administration of Health Institutions and Hospitals Imparting of knowledge and understanding on the             
objectives of the Departments of Health and Ayurveda, 
structure of the health services in the line Ministry and                           
Provincial  Councils, basic components of the health 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A I ෙකʣටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2020.09.14 
PART I :  SECTION (I) GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 14..09.2020 
sector and institutions associated thereto, structural 
development of the curative health, service, operation of a 
hospital, ordering and receiving of raw food materials, 
quality checks of the cooked food, supply of medicinal,   
surgical and Medical equipment and other supplies,   
management of medical statistics, role of communication 
and public relations in medical institutions, hospital 
charges and yield of the garden crops and special units, 
decentralized special units and decentralized special 
businesses in hospitals. 
 
 
Candidates may refer the Gazette Notifications published by the Secretary of Ministry of Health from time to time for 
full details on the syllabus and method of applications. 
 
10-13 
 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 
           Subjects of the Course  Syllabus 