

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2400
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … 2398
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"086 – 2018 wf.daia;= ui 24 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'08'24
No. 2,086  –  FRIDAY ,  AUGUST 24, 2018
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th September, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31st August, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2395-B 81442- 5,403 (08/2018)
Note.–  Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 17, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2018
2396
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Of ﬁ cers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain pro
ﬁ ciency in one of the 
ofﬁ cial languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proﬁ ciency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2018
2397
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identi ﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any ﬁ le 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is suf ﬁ cient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these 
instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should be 
accurate and sufﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
  Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2018
2398
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, 
RESEARCH, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND 
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND KANDYAN 
HERITAGE
Arthur C Clarke Institute for Modern 
Technologies 
V ACANCY OF POST OF DIRECTOR GENERAL (CEO)
THE Arthur C Clarke Institute for Modern Technologies 
(ACCIMT), is a Statutory Board functioning within the 
purview of the Ministry of Science, Technology, Research, 
Skills Development and V ocational Training and Kandyan 
Heritage. The Institute is mandated with accelerating 
the introduction of modern technologies in the ﬁ elds of 
Electronics, Communications, Information Technology, 
Robotics and Space Technologies through research and 
development, training and technology transfer. 
The institute calls for applications from suitably qualiﬁ ed, 
experienced and dynamic professionals from citizens 
of Sri Lanka with excellent communication, leadership, 
interpersonal and organizational skills.
Employee Category : Senior Manager. 
Board deﬁ nition of the nature of functions assigned to the 
employee of the category. – The Director General (CEO) is 
the highest level Executive Ofﬁ cer of the institution. 
The Director General (CEO) is accountable and 
responsible for all the activities and administrative and 
ﬁ nancial affairs of the Institute who under the General 
direction and control of the Board of Directors, exercise, 
perform and discharge powers, functions and duties of 
the Board as may be delegated by the Board and provide 
leadership and encouragement to the staff of the Institute, 
for excelling in of ﬁ cial achievements and generation and 
transfer of technology. 
Major duties of the post include : 
 Overall administration and ﬁ nancial control of the 
Institute ;
 Formulate plans and direct activities to enhance 
output with a view to increase revenue ;
 Advice the Board on policy matters ;
 Attend to coordinating activities between relevant 
agencies ;
 Attend the Board meetings of other relevant 
institutions ;
 Attend the work connected with international 
matters ;
 Participation at Local and International conferences, 
seminars, workshops etc ;
 Submitting of reports and publications ;
 Any other duties assigned by the Board of 
Governors.
Nature of Appointment. – Permanent (valid for a period 
of ﬁ ve years according to Section 27(2) and 27(4) of the 
Science and Technology Development Act, No. 11 in 
1994) with entitlement to Employees' Provident Fund and 
Employees' Trust Fund.
Salary Code and the Monthly Salary Scale of the 
employee category (DMS Circular number 02/2016 fully 
applicable w. e. f. 01.01.2020)
HM 2-3-2016 - Rs. (98,215 -12x2,700 - Rs. 130,615)
Basic Salary - Rs. 77,827 + Cost of living allowance         
Rs. 7,800 and other allowances approved by the government. 
Qualiﬁ cations :  
External : (1 or 2 below) 
1. ( a) Should possess a four year full time Degree 
in Bachelor of Science in Engineering from a 
relevant Engineering discipline (Electronics/
Telecommunication or a relevant ﬁ eld) awarded 
from a University of Sri Lanka, recognized by the 
Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka for the award 
of Associate Membership ;
  or
 ( b) Should have fully completed and passed all parts 
of the examination relevant to the prescribed 
Engineering Discipline held by the Institution of 
the Engineers of Sri Lanka by which the candidate 
qualiﬁ es for the Associate Membership of the 
Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka ;
  or
 ( c) Should have fully completed and passed all parts 
of the Engineering Council Examination of the 
United Kingdom or its af ﬁ liated institution in the 
relevant Engineering Discipline which ful ﬁ lls 
the academic requirements recommended by the 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2018
2399
Engineering Council of the United Kingdom to 
obtain the Chartered Status of an Engineer ;
  or
 ( d) Should have obtained an Engineering Degree, 
equivalent to the Degree of Bachelor of Science 
in Engineering offered by any other University or 
an Institution recognized by the University Grants 
Comission by which the candidate quail ﬁ es for 
the Associate Membership of the Institution of 
Engineers, Sri Lanka ;
  or
 ( e) Should possess a four year full time Degree 
in Bachelor of Science in a relevant discipline 
(Physics/Astronomy/Space Science/Geomatics/
Mathematics or a relevant ﬁ eld) from a recognized 
University or an Institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission. 
  AND
  PhD Degree in a relevant ﬁ eld from a recognized 
University or professional registration as a 
Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of the Institution 
of Engineers Sri Lanka (CEng., FIESL).
  AND
  Minimum of 20 years of experience as an 
Engineer/ Scientist or in a similar capacity of 
comparable experience, out of which not less than 
05 years of should be at the Senior Managerial 
level, with a proven track record of ability to lead 
and direct multi – disciplinary teams and, proper 
deployment and ef ﬁ cient management of human 
and other resources in a Government Department, 
State Corporation, Statuory Board or a reputed 
Mercantile Establishment.
2. ( a) Should posses a four year full time Degree in 
Bachelor of Science in engineering from a 
relavent Engineering discipline (Electronics/ 
Telecommunication or a relevant ﬁ eld) awarded 
from a University of Sri Lanka, recognized by the 
Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka for the award 
of  Associated Membership;
  or
 ( b)  Should have fully completed and passed all parts 
of the examination relevant to the prescribed 
Engineering Discipline held by the Institution of 
the Engineers of Sri Lanka by which the candidate 
qualiﬁ es for the Associate Membership of the 
Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka;
  or
 (c)  Should have fully completed and passed all parts 
of the Engineering Council Examination of the 
United Kingdom or its af ﬁ liated institution in the 
relevant Engineering Discipline which ful ﬁ lls 
the academic requirements recommended by the 
Engineering Council of the united kingdom to 
obtain the Chartered Status of an Engineer;
  or
 (d)  Should have obtained an Engineering Degree, 
equivalent to the Degree of Bachelor of Science 
in Engineering offered by any other University or 
an Institution recognize by the University Grants 
Commission by which the candidate quali ﬁ es for 
the Associate Membership of the Institution of 
Engineers, Sri Lanka ;
  AND
  Professional registration as a Charted Engineer 
and Corporate Member of the Institution 
of Engineers Sri Lanka (CEng., MIESL) or 
professional registration as a Charted Engineer of 
the Engineering Council of the United Kingdom 
(UK) and Corporate Member of a Professional 
Institution of Engineering in the relevant discipline 
in UK. 
  AND
  Minimum of 20 years of experience as an 
Engineer or in a similar capacity of comparable 
experience, out of which not less than 10 years 
should be at the Senior Managerial level, with a 
proven track record of ability to lead and direct 
multi- disciplinary teams and, proper deployment  
and ef ﬁ cient management of human and other 
resources in a Government Department, State 
Corporation, Statutory Board or a reputed 
Mercantile Establishment.
Note: Preference will be give to candidate possessing 
a recognized Postgraduate Degree in Business 
Administration.
Internal.– A minimum of 5 years satisfactory service in 
a post of Deputy Director General (Technical Operations/ 
Planning and Development / Space Technology and 
Applications) in the Senior Manager (HM 2 - 2) category 
of the Arthur C Clarke Institute for Modern Technologies ;
And
A proven ability to lead and direct multi – disciplinary 
teams. Experience in proper deployment and ef ﬁ cient 
management of human and other resources.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2018
2400
Note: Preference will be given to candidates possessing 
a Postgraduate Degree in Business Administration.
Age.– Should be not less than 35 years and not more 
than 55 years. The upper age limit will not be applicable to 
internal candidates.
Other.– Every applicant,
 (i)  Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
 (ii) Should be physically and mentally ﬁ t to the 
discharge the duties of the post well and to serve 
in any part of the Island ;
 (iii) Should be of excellent moral character.
Other Beneﬁ ts :
 ( a) EPF – Employee 10%; ACCIMT 15% ;
 ( b) ETF – ACCIMT 3% ;
 ( c) Reimbursement of the Membership fee in relevant 
professional Institutions ;
 ( d) Medical Scheme covering indoor/ outdoor 
treatment within speciﬁ ed limits ;
 ( e) Provide of ﬁ cial vehicle as per the government 
regulations.
Closing Date : 03. 09. 2018
Method of Application .– Of ﬁ cers from Government 
Departments / Corporations and Statutory Bodies should 
submit their applications though the respective Heads of 
Institutes.
Applications giving completed bio – data supported 
by photocopies of certi ﬁ cates together with names and 
addresses of two non-related referees should be sent under 
Registered Post, on or before 03.09.2018 marked '' Post 
of Director General of the ACCIMT" on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelop, to reach the below mentioned address.
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Science, Technology, Research,
 Skills Development & V ocational Training and 
 Kandyan Heritage,
3
rd Floor,
1st Stage,
''Sethsiripaya"
Battaramulla.
08 - 1165
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION 
FOR WOMEN DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS 
OF THE MINISTRY OF WOMEN AND CHILD 
AFFAIRS - 2018
THE ﬁ rst Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination for the Women 
Development Ofﬁ cers of the Ministry of Women and Child 
Affairs will be conducted by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations in December 2018 in Colombo. It is 
hereby announced that the closing date for applications is 
21.09.2018.
02. Scheme of Examination.–  This Ef ﬁ ciency Bar 
Examination shall consist of the Following subjects. The 
examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil medium only. 
Applicants will not be allowed to change the medium of 
examination they selected.
Subject No. 01 - Financial Regulations/ Ofﬁ ce  100 marks
 Systems - Duration 02 hrs.
Subject No. 02 - Gender and Women's Rights   do
Subject No. 03 - Social Science and   do 
  Psychological Counseling
Note :
 ( a)  An ofﬁ cer may appear for all the subjects at one 
sitting or separate subjects at several sittings.
 ( b)  Applicants should score a minimum of forty 
percent (40%) marks for each paper to pass the 
examination.
 ( c)  Every question paper has compulsory questions.
03. Subjects: (consist of three structured papers)
 03.01.  Financial Regulations/ Of ﬁ ce Systems
  Public Management Systems of Sri Lanka
  Financial Control and Annual estimates
  Regulations of the Establishments Code and 
Financial Regulations
  The following Chapters of the Establishments 
Code will be covered.
  Chapters I, II, IV , V , VII, IX, XII, XV , XXIII, 
XXVI, XXVII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, 
V olume 1 of the Financial Regulations of the 
Government

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2018
2401
  (Except Chapter X)
  Of ﬁ ce Management
 03.02. Gender and Women's Rights
    Discrimination against women
    Gender in the Sri Lankan Society
    Women's Charter and Women's Rights
 03.03. Social Science and Psychological Counselling
   Rural Social Science
   Urbanization of Sri Lanka
   Rural Development
   Fundamentals and ethics in Psycho-counselling
   Woman and mental disorder
   Counselling in Sri Lanka and counselling  
 opportunities
04. A specimen application for this examination appears 
at the end of this noti ﬁ cation. The candidate herself should 
prepare her application in the form of the specimen. 
Application should be prepared using a paper of  A4 size 
in such a way that No. 01 to 06 appear on the ﬁ rst page and 
other section on the second page. Application form should 
be perfected by the candidate in her handwriting.
The title of the examination appearing in the specimen 
should be indicated in English language as well, on both 
Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
Applicant's post and work station at the time of applying 
for the examination will be applicable for all purposes 
related to the examination, and any changes that had taken 
place after sending applications would not be considered.
Applications which are incomplete and not in compliance 
with the specimen form shall be rejected without  notice. 
Applicants shall ensure that the application complies with 
the specimen given in the noti ﬁ cation, all the particulars 
included in the application are accurate, the prescribed 
examination fee has been paid and the details relevant to the 
same have been entered in the application and the receipt 
is af ﬁ xed before submitting the application. It would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application 
form and the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee.
05. Duly ﬁ lled application forms should be sent through 
the Head of Department (through the Divisional Secretary 
in a Divisional Secretariat) by registered post to reach the 
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization 
and Overseas Examination Branch, Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka,  P.O. Box. 1503, Colombo on or 
before 21.09.2018. The name of the examination should be 
clearly indicated on the top left - hand corner of the envelop 
enclosing the application. Applications received after the 
closing date and incomplete applications will be rejected.
Ofﬁ cers who are new entrants for the purpose of Ofﬁ cial 
Language Policy may prepare and ﬁ ll their application 
forms in ofﬁ cial language or in Tamil/ English according to 
the medium they were recruited to  the service.
06. (i) A noti ﬁ cation will be published in the 
newspaper by the Sri Lanka Examinations Department as 
soon as the admission cards are issued to the applicants. If 
the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days 
of such an advertisement, steps should be taken to notify 
the Organization and Overseas Examination Branch, 
Department of Examinations, in the manner speciﬁ ed in the 
advertisement. When making such notice, you are informed 
to have the photocopy of the application form and the 
photocopy of the receipt obtained by paying the examination 
fee, if relevant, in your hand and specify the name of the 
examination, full name of the applicant, national identity 
card number and address accurately. In case of applicants 
outside Colombo, it would be advisable to send a letter of 
request including the said details indication a fax number 
to which a copy of the admission card can be obtained 
promptly to the fax number mentioned in the advertisement.
(ii) The Signature of the applicant on the admission card 
for the examination shall have been attested in advance. 
Every applicant should produce the admission card in 
which her signature has been attested to the supervisor of 
the examination on the ﬁ rst day on which she sit for the 
examination.
(iii) Issuance of an admission card to an applicant 
does not mean to have accepted that she possesses all the 
qualiﬁ cation to sit for the examination.
07. Identity.- Candidates should prove their identity at 
the examination hall to the Supervisor at every paper they 
sit for. For the purpose, any of the following documents will 
be accepted.
 (i)  National Identity Card,
 (ii)  A valid passport,
 (iii)  A valid driving license.
The Commissioner General of Examinations has powers 
to cancel or reject the candidature of any applicant who 
failes to produce any of the above documents.
08.  Examination Fees.–  an examination fee will be 
charged from applicants who sit for this examination as 
mentioned below.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2018
2402
 Examination Fee  Rs. Cts.
 ( a)  A fee will not be charged from 
  ﬁ rst-time candidates
 ( b)  For the whole examination after the  500 0
  ﬁ rst time 
 ( c)  Per subject 250 0
The examination fee can be paid to any post ofﬁ ce or sub 
post ofﬁ ce under the Head 20-03-02-13 of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations to be credited to the Revenue, 
and the receipt obtained in the name of applicant should be 
afﬁ xed in the relevant cage of the application so as not to 
be detached. Under no circumstances, examination fee will 
be refunded or transferred for any other examination and 
money orders or stamps are accepted. It is advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the receipt for future reference. 
09. (i) This examination is conducted by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations, and all the candidates 
shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him 
for the purpose of conducting this examination. Candidates 
are liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed by the 
Commissioner General of  Examinations for violation of 
these rules and regulations.
(ii) The results sheets containing the results of all the 
candidates who sat for the examination will be handed over 
to the Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Affairs.
10. The Heads of Departments shall grant duty leave to 
ofﬁ cers in their Departments ofﬁ ces who are qualiﬁ ed to sit 
for the examination and who have Admission Cards issued 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
11. Any matter not referred to herein will be dealt with 
at the discretion of the Secretary, Ministry of Women  and 
Child Affairs.
12. This examination noti ﬁ cation is published in 
Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Women and Child Affairs.
Ministry of Women and Child Affairs,
5th Floor, II nd Stage, Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla,
Specimen Application
(for ofﬁ ce use only)
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR 
WOMEN DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS OF  MINISTRY 
OF WOMEN AND CHILD AFFAIRS - 2018
 Medium of the Examination:
 Sinhala  - 2
 Tamil  - 3
 (Write relevant number in the cage)
01.  1.1 Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
  ( Eg.– HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN 
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 1.2 Name with initials indicating initials at the end (in 
block capitals) :––––––––––.
  (Eg : GUNAWARDHANA. H. M. S. K.)
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala / Tamil) :––––––––––.
02.  2.1  Of ﬁ ce Address (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
 2.2 Of ﬁ ce Address (in Sinhala/ Tamil) :––––––––––.
 2.3 Address to which Admission card to be posted (in 
block capitals) :––––––––––.
 2.4 Telephone No. :––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Gender : Male  - 0
    Female  - 1
    (Write relevant Number in the Cage)
 3.2 Date of Birth :  
  Year Month Date
 3.3 Closing date for Application (Age as at 21.09.2018) : 
  Years       Months         Days
04.  Identity Card No. :
05.  Date of Appointment to the post of Women Development 
Ofﬁ cer in the Ministry of Women & Child Affairs :              
–––––––––.
 (Specify the date on Which the duties were assumed 
substantively)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.08.2018
2403
06. Are you an old entrant to the Of ﬁ cial Language Policy 
objectives ? :––––––––––.
 If not are you a new entrant ? :––––––––––.
07. Name of the Department (If it is a Divisional Secretariat, 
name of that Divisional Secretariat) :––––––––––.
08. Subjects and Subject number you sit for under paragaph 
02 of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation :
Subject Subject No.
1. ...................................
2. ...................................
3. ...................................
09. Is this the ﬁ rst attempt of the attempt ? :––––––––––.
10.  Description of receipt obtained by paying examination 
fee :
 I. Post of ﬁ ce to which you paid examination fee : 
––––––––––.
 II. Number and Date of Receipt :––––––––––.
 III. Date of payment :––––––––––.
Afﬁ x the receipt ﬁ rmly
(Keep a photocopy with you)
11. I, hereby declare that the particulars furnished herein are 
true and accuirate, and I have right to sit for the  exam 
in the medium speci ﬁ ed above. Further, I hereby agree 
to abide by all the rules and regulations imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations for the purpose 
of holding the examination and decisions taken with 
regard to issuing results.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Note : The applicant should place her signature in the 
presence of the Head  of Department or any ofﬁ cer who has 
been authorized to sign on behalf of the Head of Department.
Attestation of Applicant's Signature
I hereby certify that Ms. ......................................... who 
is an employee of this ofﬁ ce is personally known to me, and 
she placed her signature in my presence on .......................
 ––––––––––––––,
 Attester's Signature.
Name  :––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––.   
Address  :––––––––––.
Certiﬁ cation by the Head of Department
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished herein 
were checked and found to be correct, the prescribed 
examination fee has been paid and the receipt has been pasted 
on the application, the applicant is a ﬁ rst time candidate and 
she is eligible to sit for the examination.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of Department.
 (Of ﬁ cial Frank)
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
(Strike out words in applicable) 
08-1196
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.