

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
SRI LANKA HIRA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 32]
————————
Presented by  Hon. K. Kader Masthan M. P. for Vanni District
on 02nd December, 2015
(Published in the Gazette on November 02, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
to incorporate the Sri Lanka Hira Foundation
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka Hira Foundation
 (Incorporation)
Preamble.
Short title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA HIRA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Sri Lanka Hira Foundation”  has heretofore been formed
10/18, Lake Drive, Colombo-08 the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application.
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the “Sri Lanka Hira
Foundation” (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2015.
2. From and after the commencement of this Act, such
and so many persons as now are members of the “Sri Lanka
Hira Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”)
or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession,
under the name and style of the “Sri Lanka Foundation” and
by that name may sue and be sued in all courts,  with full
power and authority to have and use a common seal and
alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a)
Working to protect and develop all rights of women
and children;
Incorporation
of the
Sri Lanka
Hira
Foundation .

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Lanka Hira Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) assist affected people in disaster situation to uplift
their life-style and providing legal assistance for
needy vulnerable people;
(c) protect cultural values;
(d) giving assistance to develop worship places;
(e) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and
cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka;
(f) to give assistance, prizes and scholarships to needy
school  children to enable to continue their
education, encourage them to attend school
regularly, and assist them in their education;
(g) to establish self-employment opportunities for
unemployed citizens and to provide loans and to
inaugurate various savings schemes;
(h) to take necessary steps to promote artistic creations,
sport skills and technical knowledge of school
leavers and to set up vocational training centers as
well as give them assistance to peruse studies in
computer science and technology and to establish
institutions to provide such studies;
(i) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion or caste and
to conduct various festivals and competitions;
(j) to provide medical relief and food for the poor,
destitute and sick persons, establish and maintain
houses to maintain Children homes and day care
centers for children and elders;
(k) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka Hira Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation be administered by a Board
of Directors consisting of Chairman, Secretary General,
Director Finance, Chairman, Administrative Director  and
other six members elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Minister, M. L. A. Hizbullah shall be the Chairman of the
Board of Directors for life and thereafter, the Family members
of the person who was holding office as the Chairman shall
become the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new members shall be appointed to fill such
Vacancy and such a new members shall hold office for a
period of four years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any building
or structures on any land held by the Corporation and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Genral
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Lanka Hira Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of not less than two-thirds of the members present and
voting, to make rules, not inconsistant with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membership
fees payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, power, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
(e) administration and management of the property of
the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
purposes of this Act.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka Hira Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure  incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise performance and discharge of
its power, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporation  shall be able and capable in law
to acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise,
and all such property shall be held by the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, with full power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same.
10. No member of the Corporation of the Corporation
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities of the Corporation or for any other purpose, be
liable to make any contribution exceeding the among of
such membership fees as may be due from him to the
Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
or transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which, is or
are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sri Lanka Hira Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper account to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor and
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of person as may be provided for in the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing  of any person
as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic,
or  corporate, or of any other persons except such as
are mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or
under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Audit and
Accounts of
the
Corporation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Lanka Hira Foundation
 (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .