

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
                               PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
                               PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 114
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2"124- 2019 uehs ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'05'17                                                              
No. 2,124 - FRIDAY ,  MAY 17,  2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  7th June, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th May , 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
113 - B 081523 -353 (2019/05)
N.B.—   Part I:III, II,  III  of the  Gazette No. 2123  of  10.05.2019 was  not  Published. 


<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'17
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.05.2019
114
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/58256.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: ismsis$t,ais$t,aã 
4$1$32$955'
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND  
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby noti ﬁ ed that for the purpose of Agriculture, 
Kuruppu Mudiyanselage Sumith Jayasiri has requested on 
lease a state land containing in extent about 02 Roods, 14.5 
Perches marked as lot C in Tracing No. NE/PS/2018/10 
situated in the village of Sandatenne which belongs to the 
Grama Niladhari Division of Sandatenne 535E coming within 
the area of authority of  Nuwara Eliya Divisional Secretariat 
in the District of Nuwara Eliya.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Lot  A, Access Road and land possessed 
by C. Kramer  ;
On the East by : Land  possessed by C. Kramer and land 
possessed by Deepthi Amunugama;
On the  South by :  Land possessed by Lalitha Padmini 
and Lot B ;
On the West by :  Lots B and A  
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions : -
 
 ( a) Terms of the Lease .– Thirty Years (30) , ( From 
11.03.2019 onwards);
 (b) The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 2% of the undeveloped 
value of the land as per valuation of the chief valuer for 
the year 2019, when the annual value of the land is less 
than Rupees Five  Million (Rs. 5,000,000.00) for that 
year, 4% of the undeveloped value of the land, as per 
valuation of the chief valuer for the year of operation 
of the lease, when the annual value of the land is more 
than rupees Five Million (Rs. 5,000,000.00) for that 
year. This lease amount should be revised, once in 
every ﬁ ve years and 20% of the lease amount charged 
in the ﬁ nal year of the preeding 05 year period, should 
be added to annual lease amount.
  Premium :- Not charged.
 ( a) This lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the  said land, in such a 
manner as to captivate the mind of the Divisional 
Secretary/Provincial Land Commissioner/ Deputy land 
Commissioner ;
 ( b) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes other 
than for the purpose of Cultivation Activities  ;
 ( c) This lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary, and by other Institutions;
 ( d) The Buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair;
 
 (e)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease;
 
 (f)   No sub -  leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from the date of operation 
of the lease;
 
 (g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
   If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date which this notice 
is published in the Gazette to the effect that this land 
must not be given on lease, the land will be leased out 
as requested.
  Y . Y . N. P
ERERA,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura", Rajamalwatta Road,  
No. 1200/6,  Land Secretariat,
Battaramulla.
17th May, 2019.
05-434
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.