

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1873$40 – 2014 wf.daia;= 01 jeks isl=rdod – 2014'08'01
No. 1873/40 – FRIDAY, AUGUST 01, 2014
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No.: CA/State/04/2014.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the one part and
the Ceylon Estates Staffs' Union , No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 12th day of March, 2014, regarding the Technical
Staff is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon
(Revised Edition 1956).
W. J. L. U. WIJAYAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
11th July, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 15 of 2014
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT  – TECHNICAL STAFF
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between the Employers' Federation of  Ceylon of 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of
the First Part and the Ceylon Estates Staffs' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the Second Part, made and entered into on the
Twelfth day of March Two Thousand Fourteen  Witnesseth as follows:-
1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Technical Staff  Collective Agreement.
2. Employers Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, whose names
are contained in Schedule I hereto and   hereinafter referred  to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be according to context, for
and in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in clause 3 hereof.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
3. Unions and Employees Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter
referred to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by the members of the Federation referred to in Schedule I on
monthly contracts of  employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule II hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements.– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these
categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions . In the event of there being any dispute with regard to the
existence  of any other term or condition not contained herein , the same shall be resolved  by reference to the Commissioner G eneral of
Labour in terms of the Industrial dispute  Act, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade Union action on the basis
of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration .– Subject to any provisions to the contrary , this Agreement shall be effective from 1st
October, 2013 and shall thereafter continue  in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial
Disputes Act subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 30th September,  2016.
6. General Terms and Conditions.–
(i) The terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this
Agreement.
(ii) Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
(iii) Upon completion of 10 years of satisfactory service under the same employer, Junior Assistant Factory Officer shall
be re-designated as Assistant Factory Officer.
 7. Probation.– On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the right
of the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatis factory
performance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period not
being extended after the period of 6 months, the employee shall be deemed to be confirmed notwithstanding there being no letter  of
confirmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notic e or
assigning reasons therefor.
 8. First Appointment.– No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he has successfully completed the
G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have experience in the
trade.
9. Attendance at Work.– Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work on
every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for
work throughout the normal working hours.
10. Promotions.–
(i) Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers shall
advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and qualifications to
make them eligible.
(ii) Where an Employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and if he is confirmed in the senior capacity, he will
not be required to serve a period of probation.
(iii) Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be communicated
to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of 50% of the difference between his salary and that which was
last paid to the holder of such senior position subject to a maximum of Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred. (Rs. 1,500/-)
per mensem.
(iv) Where the acting period, other than in over looking positions, continue for 6 months the employer shall prior to the expiry
of 6 months inform the employee in writing whether he is confirmed in the post or reverted to his substantive post.
11. Salaries.–
1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with effect from 1st october, 2013 shall be as
follows:
(i) With effect from 1st October, 2013 the salaries of all employees in employment as at the date of signing of this Agreement
shall be increased by 25%. Provided however, in respect of the period October 2013 to February 2014, it is hereby agreed
that the said increase will be regarded as notional arrears (without any consequential benefits such as EPF, ETF overtime etc).

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
3A
(ii) ( a) The notional arrears payment will be paid in two equal installments. The initial payment will be made prior to the
Sinhala/Tamil New Year in April 2014 and
(b) The second installment will be paid in June 2014.
(iii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary ranges applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule II of this
agreement.
(iv) After revision effected in terms of (i) and (ii) above the employees will be placed on the salary point on the salary range
applicable to his/her grade as set out in Schedule III hereof.
(v) In the case of Factory Officer/Storekeeper who are presently entitled to an allowance on account of work as a Store-
keeper, such employees shall continue to receive his/her allowances at the rate of 10% of the salary drawn by him/her. The
allowances shall not be payable if the additional duties are not performed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF
and ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.
2. (a) With effect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staff quarters being provided to
them, shall receive a 10% increment of the following allowances, depending on the grade to which they belong, and the
revised allowance will be as follows:
Junior Asst. Factory Officer - Rs. 1,020/- x 10%= Rs. 1,122.00/-
Asst. Factory Officer - Rs. 1,080/- x 10%= Rs. 1,188.00/-
Senior Asst. Factory Officer - Rs. 1,260/- x 10%= Rs. 1,386.00/-
Factory Officer - Rs. 1,380/- x 10%= Rs. 1,518.00/-
Factory Officer (Special Grade) - Rs. 1,440/- x 10%= Rs. 1,584.00/-
(b) In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the Employer, such person shall liable to disciplinary
action.
12. Hours of Work and Overtime.–
(i) The working week shall be six days of forty eight hours. One day each week shall be allowed as an off day. Work on the
weekly off day or in excess of forty eight hours per week or ten hours per day shall be deemed to be overtime.
(ii) If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer. Each
hour of overtime work shall be calculated by dividing the monthly rate by two hundred and forty (240) multiplied by one and
a half (1 1/2).
13. Leave.–
1. Employees shall be entitled to a maximum of 14 days Annual Leave. In the first year the leave entitlement shall be on a
proportionate basis. All employees with more than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to three
weeks paid annual leave as a special benefit: this right shall not extend to any employee recruited after 1st September, 1993.
2. (i) S
ICK LEA VE – Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will be
granted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and over,
a medical certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner or  a Government Hospital shall be considered neces-
sary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a medical certificate as  aforementioned, where he deems it
appropriate.
(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which
he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the condition
however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.
(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of sick leave he shall be permitted
to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.
3. CASUAL LEAVE – All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay,
not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will not be carried over to the next
year.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
4.  Five (5) days leave on full pay shall be allowed each year to each  employee on account of religious festivals in accordance
with the religious persuasions of such employee. Such leave may not, however, be taken in continuation with Casual leave.
14. Holidays.– Employees will be entitled  to paid holidays on
February 4th – Independence Day
April 13th or 14th – Sinhala /Tamil New Year
May 1st – May Day
15. Gratuity.– Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
16. Age of Retirement.–
(i) Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher retiral age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years and will be applicable
to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
(ii) However, an employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory work performance,
conduct or state of health of the employee. For this purpose “unsatisfactory work performance” shall include any act of
misconduct in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.
(iii) An employer who decides to retire an employee at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii) above shall give such
employee one year's  notice in writing or pay one year's salary in lieu of such notice. Where such notice is not given and
the employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period which misconduct would have
otherwise resulted in his retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be retired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the fact
that notice has not been given or payment made in lieu.
17. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment.–
1. Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension shall
not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
2. Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry.
18. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries .–
1. An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary inquiry
when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against him. Such
suspension shall be in writing.
2. Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in subclause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shall be
on half pay.
3. The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending inquiries
by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Verifications.
19. Administrative Transfers.–
1. Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of spouse, will, subject to the exigencies
of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one month's notice
in writing.
2. Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account of
children's schooling or the spouse's employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three month's notice in
writing.
3. Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred in that
particular year.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
5A
4. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to his
retirement.
5. The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4)  above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the
Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
20. Annual Increments.–
1. Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of an year's service. The increments will be awarded in
accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are award on a uniform date to all employees, in the
event of an employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, he shall not
be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.
2. An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after the employee
has been notified in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas stoppage
would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
21. Diciplinary Inquiries .–
1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal
or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs
to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notified in  a general manner of the reasons for
such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
2. An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management
deems that such measure is necessary.
3. An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ‘show cause’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against
him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or
explanation. Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable
amount of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in
exceptional circumstances.
4. If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and
where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Em-
ployer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30
working days from the date on which the explanation to the 'show cause' letter is received, unless circumstances prevent
the employer from doing so.
5. An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the Inquiry. Such representative shall not be
a professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent of
the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the Inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may
object to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The failure
of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
6. The Employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working
days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the
findings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of
a pending criminal investigation. If no findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply,
the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
7. Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee
summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification for
summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
22. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment & Disputes.–
1. Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any
of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
2. Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as
personal, but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consump-
tion of electricity, where a limit is fixed for all employees.
3. Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreemet shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General of
Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.
4. It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members, shall not resort to
any form  of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
23. Duty Leave.–
1. Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other office bearer of the Parent Union will
be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
2. Where any dispute arises with regard to duty Leave of the President and the nominated office bearer of the Parent
Union, as specified in sub clause (1) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between parties.
3. By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave
in any one year.
4. By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty
leave which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed of jointly by
these two Office Bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
Part II
1. The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement morefully described in Schedule I to this Agreement
undertakes to discuss with Unions to resolve any issued relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation / sub-leasing of
estates / divisions.
2. Electricity.–
Free electricity would be granted to memebers of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in
the past.
Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior Staff - 140 units
Junior Staff (inclusive of minor staff) - 100 units
Drivers - 75 units
Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior Staff - 170 units
Junior staff (inclusive of minor staff) - 130 units
Drivers                      - 105 units

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
7A
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each estate.
Kerosene – Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensem to those employees resident on estates / divisions without
electricity
3. Tea Allowance .–  The employer shall provide free tea, on the followig basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits
in those categories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
Senior staff – 2 kgs
Junior staff (inclusive of minor staff) – 1 1/2 kgs
Drivers – 1 kg
The staff members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or COP
whichever is Lower.
Staff members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992 would be entitled to
purchase a maximum of 3kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever is lower with effect from 1st June, 2003.
4. Death Grant.–
1. With effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the dependants will be paid a sum of Rs. 50,000/- as funeral
expenses.
2. The dependants of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one month
upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependants hand over the staff quarters.
3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the dependants will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 months
salary within one month of the death of the staff member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme.–  A staff member who is a member of the Staff Medical Aid Scheme will be paid the total balance lying
to his/her credit in the fund inclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her
employement from the estate.
24. Interpretation.–
Word                                          Meaning
Union Means the union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.
Dispute  Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer  M eans a company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.
Week  M eans the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.
Year  Means a continuous period of 12 months.
Gender  A reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
8A


<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
9A9A


<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
10A


<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
11A11A


<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
12A


<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
13A13A
05 - 826


<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
14A
08 - 218


<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh –  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h –  2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
15A15A
08 - 650

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
My No.: CA/State/03/2014.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, No. 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the one
part and Ceylon Estates Staffs' Union, No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the other part on 12th day of March, 2014, regarding the
Supervisor  Staff is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of
Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
W. J. L. U. WIJAYAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
11th July, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 14 of 2014
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT – SUPERVISORY  STAFF
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between the Employers' Federation of Ceylon of 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of
the first part and the Ceylon Estates Staffs' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the second part, made and entered into on the twelth
day of March, 2014, witnesseth as follows:
1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Supervisory Staff Collective Agreement.
2. Employers Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, whose names
are contained in Schedule I hereto and hereinafter referred to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be according to context, for and
in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in Clause 3 hereof.
3. Union and Employees Covered and bound– This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter referred
to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by the members of the Federation referred to in Schedule I on monthly
contracts of employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements..– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these
categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being any dispute with regard to the
existence of any other term or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner-General of Labour
in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade union action on the basis of the
existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration.–  Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shall be effective from the 1st
October 2013 and  shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial
Dispute Act, subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 30th September, 2016.
              6. General Terms and Conditions.–
(i) The terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this
Agreement.
(ii) Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
(iii) Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer, Junior Assistant Field Officer shall be
re-designated as Assistant Field Officer.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
17A
7. Probation.– On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the right
of the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatis factory
performance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period not
being extended after the period of 6 months, an employee shall be deemed to be confirmed notwithstanding there being no letter of
confirmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notic e or
assigning reasons therefor.
8. First Appointment.– No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he has successfully completed
the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have experience in
the trade.
9. Attendance at Work.– Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work
on every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available
for work throughout the normal working hours.
10. Promotions.–
(i) Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers shall
advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and qualifica-
tions to make them eligible.
(ii) Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and  if he is confirmed in the senior capacity, he
will not be required to serve a period of probation.
(iii) Where and employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be
communicated to him in writing and he shall be paid an acting Allowance of 50% of the difference between his salary and
that which was last paid to the holder of such senior position, subject to a maximum of Rupees One Thousand Five
Hundred (Rs. 1,500/-) per mensem.
(iv) Where the acting period, other than in over looking positions, continue for 6 months the employer shall prior to the
expiry of 6 months, inform the employee in writing whether he is confirmed in the post or reverted to his substantive
post.
11. Salaries.–
1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with effect from 01st October , 2013 shall be as
follows:
(i) With effect from 1st October, 2013, the salaries of all employees in employment as at the date of singning of this Agreement
shall be increased by 25%. Provided however, in respect of the period October 2013 to February 2014, it is hereby agreed
that the said increase will be regarded as notional arrears (without any consequential benefits such as EPF, ETF, Overtime
etc.)
(ii) ( a) The notional arrears payment will be in two equal installments. The initial payment will be made prior to the Sinhala /
Tamil New Year in April, 2014 and
(b) The second installment will be paid in June 2014.
(iii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary ranges applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule II of this
agreement.
(iv) After revision effected in terms of (i) and (ii) above the employees will be placed on the salary point on the salary range
applicable to his/her grade is set out in Schedule III hereof.
(v) In the case of Field Officers / Storekeepers who are presently entitled to an allowance on account of work as a Storekeeper,
such employee shall continue to receive his/her allowances at the rate of 10% of the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances
shall not be payable if the additional duties are not performed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall
be made in respect of this allowance.
2. (a) With effect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to payment in lieu of staff quarters being provided to them,
shall receive a 10% increment of the following allowances,

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
 depending on the grade to which they belong and the revised allowance will be as follows:
Junior Asst. Field Officer Rs. 1,020  x 10% = Rs. 1,122
Asst. Field Officer Rs. 1,080  x 10% = Rs. 1,188
Field Officer Rs. 1,260  x 10% = Rs. 1,386
Field Officer Special Grade Rs. 1,380  x 10% = Rs. 1,518
(b) In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the Employer, such person shall be liable to disciplinary action.
12. Hours of Work and Overtime.–
(i) The working week shall be six days of forty eight hours. One day each week shall be allowed as an off day. Work on the weekly
off day or in excess of forty eight hours per week or ten hours per day shall be deemed to be overtime.
(ii) If required by his employer, an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the employer. Each
hour of overtime work shall be calculated by dividing the monthly rate by two hundred and forty (240) multiplied by one and
a half (1 1/2).
13. Leave.–
(1) Employees shall be entitled to a maximum of 14 days Annual Leave. In the first year the leave entitlement shall be on a
proportionate basis. All employees with more than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to three
weeks paid annual leave as a special benefit; This right shall not extend to any employee recruited after 1st September 1993.
(2) (i) Sick Leave.– Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will be granted
up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and over, a medical
certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to
the right of the Employer to call for a medical certificate as aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.
(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which
he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the condition however
that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.
(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of sick leave he shall be permitted to
continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.
(3) Casual Leave.– All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay, not
more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will not be carried over to the next year.
(4) Five (5) days leave on full pay shall be allowed each year to each employee on account of religious festivals in accordance
with the religious persuasions of such employee. Such leave may not, however, be taken in continuation with casual leave.
14. Holidays.– Employees will be entitled to paid holidays on –
February 4th –  Independence Day
April 13th or 14th –  Sinhala/Tamil New Year
May 1st – May Day
15. Gratuity.– Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
16. Age of Retirement.–
(i) Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years and will be applicable
to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
(ii) However, an employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfcatory work performance, conduct
or state of health of the employee. For this purpose "unsatisfactory work performance" shall include any act of misconduct
in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
19A
(iii) An employer who decides to retire an employee at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii) above, shall give such
employee one year's notice in writing or pay one year's salary in lieu of such notice. Where such notice is not given and the
employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period which misconduct would have otherwise
resulted in his retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be entired on reaching 55 years notwithstading the fact that notice
has not been given or payment made in lieu.
17. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment.–
(1) Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension shall
not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
(2) Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry. Such suspension shall be
in writing.
18. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries.–
1. An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary  inquiry
when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against him.
2. Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shall be
on half pay.
3. The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2)  above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending
inquiries by the Police, by other Public  Authorities or Audit Verifications.
19. Administrative Transfers.–
1. Transfers not involving hardship in  relation to schooling of children or employment of a spouse, will, subject to the
exigencies of  the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one
month's notice in writing.
2. Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship  on account of
children's   schooling or the spouse's employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three months' notice in
writing.
3. Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred in that
particular year.
4. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to his
retirement.
5. The provisions of sub-clauses  (1), (2), (3) and (4) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the
Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
20. Annual Increments.–
1. Annual Increments shall be granted automatically on completion of an year's  service. The increments will be awarded in
accordance with the practice  prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employees,
in the event of an employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, he
shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.
2. An increment may be suspended stopped or deferred, by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after the Employee
has been notified in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas
stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
21. Disciplinary Inquiries.–
1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal or
where, in the opinion of the Employer a breach of the peace, damage to property  or disturbance of business needs to be
avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notified in a general manner of the reasons for such
suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
2. An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management
deems that such measure is necessary.
3. An employee is entitled to be furnished with a show cause notice setting out the charges of misconduct  alleged against him
and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days  in which to give the answer or explanation.
Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable amount of time
depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional circumstances.
4. If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and
where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employer
shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working days
from the date on which the explanation to the show cause letter is received, unless circumstances prevent the employer from
doing so.
5. An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the inquiry. Such representative shall not be a
professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent of the
name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may object
to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee  may nominate another representative. The failure of an
employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
6. The employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days
from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the findings be
delayed  beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of a pending criminal
investigation. If no findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply, the accused employee
shall be exonerated of the charges.
7. Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee
summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification for
summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.
22. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment & Disputes.–
1. Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any
of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
2. Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as
personal, but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consumption
of electricity, where a limit is fixed for all employees.
3. Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreemet shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General of
Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.
4. It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members, shall not resort to any
form  of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
23. Duty Leave.–
1. Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other office bearer of the Parent Union will
be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
2. Where any dispute arises with regard to duty Leave of the President and the nominated office bearer of the Parent Union,
as specified in sub clause (1) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between parties.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
21A
3. By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave in
any one year.
4. By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave
which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed of jointly by these two
Office Bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
Part II
1. The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement morefully described in Schedule I to this Agreement
undertakes to  discuss with unions to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/sub-leasing of
estates / divisions.
2. Electricity
Free electricity would be granted to memebers of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the
past.
Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior Staff             –  140 units
Junior Staff (Inclusive of minor staff) – 100 units
Drivers             – 75 units
Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior Staff             –  170 units
Junior Staff (Inclusive of minor staff) – 130 units
Drivers             – 105 units
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in six months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each estate.
Kerosene.–Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensum to those employees  resident on estates/divisions without
electricity.
3. Tea Allowance
The Employer shall provide free tea, on the following basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits in those
categories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
Senior Staff             –  2 kgs
Junior Staff (Inclusive of minor staff) – 1 1/2 kgs
Drivers             – 1 kg

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
The  staff members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or COP
whichever is lower.
Staff members who had been entitled to three or more  kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992 would be entitiled to
purchase a maximum of 3 kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever is lower with effect from 1st June,
2003.
4. Death Grant
1. With effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the dependants will be paid a sum of Rs. 50,000 as funeral
expenses.
2. The dependants of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one month
upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependants hand over the staff quarters.
3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the dependants will be paid the sum equivalent to three months'
salary within one month of the death of the staff member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme.– A staff member who is a member of the staff medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to
his/her credit in the fund inclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/
her employment from the estate.
24. Interpretation.–
Word                                    Meaning
Union Means the union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.
Dispute  Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer  means a company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.
Week  Means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.
Year  Means a continuous period of 12 months.
Gender  A reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
23A


<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014


<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
25A25A


<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014


<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
27A27A


<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014


<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
29A29A
08 - 651

<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
My No.:  CI/1458
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Premium Exports Ceylon Limited, No. 258, Grandpass Road, Colombo 14 of the one part
and the  Ceylon Mercantile Industrial and General workers’ Union, No. 03, 22nd Lane, Colombo 03, of the other  part on 04th day of March,
2014 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of C eylon
(Revised Edition 1956).
W. J. L. U. WIJAYAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
11th July, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 11 of 2014
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS  COLLECTIVE Agreement made this 4th day of March Two Thousand and Forteen to take effect from the 1st day of January Two
Thousand and Fourteen pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act.
Between
PREMIUM EXPORTS CEYLON LIMITED, a Company duly registered in Sri Lanka under the Companies Ordinance and having its
registered office at  No. 258, Grandpass Road, Colombo 14 (hereinafter referred to as the “the Employer”) of the one  part
and
THE  CEYLON MERCANTILE INDUSTRIAL AND GENERAL WORKERS’ UNION, a Trade Union duly registered under the Trade Unions
Ordinance and having its registered office at  No. 03, 22nd Lane, Colombo 03 (hereinafter referred to as the “the Union”) of the other  part
WITNESSETH : And it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
TITLE: This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the PREMIUM EXPORTS CEYLON LIMITED CLERICAL SUPERVISORY
AND TECHNICAL STAFF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT OF 2014.
Registration: An application will be made by the Company to the Commissioner of Labour for registration of this Agreement under the
industrial Disputes Act.
1. Employer Covered and Bound.– Premium Exports Ceylon Limited.
2. Employees Covered and Bound.–  This Agreement shall cover and bind all permanent employees of the employer, in its
establishment at Agarapatana (Premium Exports Ceylon Limited –Agarapatana), employed as Staff Grade (Clerical Supervisory and
Technical Staff) and are members of the Union, as at date and those  who will be so employed during the period of this Agreement.
3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of  this  Agreement the terms and conditions
of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the employer bound by this Agreement and an employee
covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall come into being at any time after the date hereof or during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
4. Earlier Collective Agreements.– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede, and replace the provisions of the Ceytea
Clerical Supervisory and Technical Staff Collective Agreement of 2008 and the parties agree that the provisions of the said Col lective
Agreement shall stand terminated.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
31A31A
5. Shift Patterns.– The Staff grade has basically two shift patterns a  follows and management has  the right to assign staff
employees on any of the two shift patterns based on the company requirements and the discretion of the Management.
1. 4 Crew 3 Shift Pattern
4 Crew 3 Shift pattern is to work 6 days continuously and get 2 days off as their weekly holiday. With this Saturday and
Sunday would be a normal working day as per the shift, their weekly holidays will be off days.
For the existing staff employees who are currently working in the 4 crew 3 shift pattern, a fixed allowance will be granted as
per the ''First Schedule''. The fixed allowance is being calculated considering the loss of income as per the past practices and
also all the statutory provisions of working in the crew 3 shift pattern. Also staff grade employees who are working as per
the 4 crew 3 shift, will not be entitled for any day off for working on Sundays as the day in lieu of Working on a Sunday is
being given with the 2 off days as per the shift pattern. Also working on a Poya day will be paid at the rate of double and no
day off  will be given for working in lieu of Poya day.
2. General Shift Pattern
General shift is  to work from Monday to Saturday of a week and working hours from Monday to Friday will be from 7.30
a.m. to 4.30 p.m. and for the short working day (Saturday) it will be from 7.30 a.m to 1.30 p.m. including 1 hour lunch time.
Weekly holidays will be on Saturday after 1.30 p.m. and Sunday full day.
However if the staff who are currently working in the 4 crew 3 shift pattern, will be transferred  to the General shift pattern,
their working time will be as follows:
Monday to Friday : 8.00 a.m. to 4.00 p.m. (including 1/2 lunch time).
Saturday : 8.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. (including 1/2 lunch time).
This is not applicable for the staff those  who are already in the General shift.
6. Production/Attendance Incentive Schemes.– The Production/Attendance Incentive Schemes will be a applicable as set out in the
Second Schedule  hereto.
7. Probation.– Every employee recruited by the employer shall serve an initial period of probation of not more than six (6) months,
provided however that if during the six (6) months probationary period the employer is not satisfied with the progress of such employee,
the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in  that  event the employer shall indicat e to the
employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation  the
employer shall have the right to terminate the services of the employee without notice. If the employee's services are not term inated for
unsatisfactory service during  the period of probation or extended probation and the employee has not been confirmed by the employer, the
employee shall be deemed to be confirmed in his employer's service with effect from the day after the date on which the period of probation
or extended as the case may be ended.
8. Attendance.–
1. Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the Employer an employee shall present himself for  work on every day (other
than a Company holiday) at the usual starting time of the office, factory or job as the case may be and shall there remain
available for work throughout the normal  working hours.
2. If at the office, factory or job work is temporarily not available for an employee in his own occupation he shall be deemed to
be ready  and willing to perform other  work within his capacity and skill where such work is available within the Company.
9. Hours of Work.– The normal working hours shall be those hours which are  customarily worked at the office, establishment of the
Employer or stipulated in his letter of appointment.
10. Forfeiture of Wages:- Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the employer, if an employee fails to hold himself
available for work through out the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and the employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
11. Overtime.–
(1) An employee shall work reasonable overtime when required  to do so by the employer and co-operate with the Management
for better output and the employer shall eclend its co-operation  to the employees to achieve same. Refusal to work
reasonable  overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable  to the  employer shall constitute neglect
of duty for which an employee shall be liable  to appropriate disciplinary action.
(2) Overtime work (i.e. work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and half (1 1/2) times  the
normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 25 (a) hereof.

<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
12. Weekly Holidays.–
(1) An employee shall be entitled to weekly holidays as prescribed by the shop and Office Employees' Act.
(2) General shift employees will be allowed the weekly half holiday of the Saturday in each week and the weekly full holiday on
Sunday in each week. Employees working on Sunday will be given  off day as per rules. Overtime of working on weekly half
holiday (Saturday) and weekly holiday (Sunday) will be as follows;
(a) Working on Saturday after first 5 hours will be remunerated at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportion-
ately for any fraction of an hour.
(b) For any work performed up to eight (8) hours on the weekly  full holiday, the employee shall be remunerated at double
the normal hourly rate for each hour of proportionately for any fraction of an hour.
(c) For any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours on the weekly full holiday, the employee shall be remunerated at
treble  the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately  for any fraction of an hour.
(d) In addition to the remuneration payable at para (b) above, the employee shall be granted one full day's leave in the
following week or be paid the equivalent of the employee's salary for one full day.
(3) In respect of every 6 days of work an employee shall be allowed 2 days holidays  on the 4 crew 3 shift system. As per 4 Crew
3 shift System Saturday and Sundays will be normal working  days depending on the roster. These 2 off days include the day
in lieu in respect of Sundays. No. Special payments will be made on working on Saturday and Sundays when it comes to the
normal working days as per the shift roster. If the staff call on off days to work, will be remunerated at the rate of 3 times of
the hourly rate of the completed working hours.
13. Annual Holidays:- From the second year of employment onwards an employee shall be entitle to take fourteen (14) days of
annual holidays  with full remuneration of which not less seven (7) days shall be taken on consecutive days.  Such leave shall have to be
availed of on days to be mutually  agree upon by the employer and employee.
If  the person is unable to utilize full or part of the Annual leave entitlement, the employer agrees to pay the balance Annual leave  at
the rate of double the daily rate at the end of the year. Half days are not considered  for this payment.
Formula : (Basic salary/ 30) x 2
14. Casual leave.–
1. In respect of each year of employment during which any employee has been continuously in employment that employee
shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable  cause including ill health if that person's
entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilizing, leave (hereinafter referred to as "Casual leave") with remuneration for
a period of an aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the employer shall allow such casual leave and shall be
liable to pay such remuneration. Provided however, that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken at any time
save an except upon the ground of ill health and that any employee shall not be entitled to take casual leave immediately
preceding or immediately following any period of annual holidays. Provided further that in respect of any employee's first
year of employment including any period of probation he shall be entitled to casual leave for that year computed on the basis
of one day for each complete period of two (2) months service.
2. Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the employee being required to state the reason for the
application. Where the employer finds it difficult to grant the application for casual leave, his difficulty shall be notified to
the employee as soon as possible after  the application is made and in such case the employee shall be required to state the
reason for the application in order that the employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant casual
leave.
3. If the person is unable to utilize full or part of the casual leave entitlement, the employer agrees  to pay the balance casu al
leave at rate of 1.5 the daily rate at the end of the year. Half days are not considered for this payment
Formula: (Basic salary /30) X 1.5

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
33A33A
15. Sick Leave.– For any year, an employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days. Provided that:
(a) His illness is supported by a certificate from  a registered medical practitioner (unless  waived by the employer) and
approved by the Company Medical Officer, and
(b) The employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 7 hereof. Provided however, that an employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year  of employment be
entitled to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months probation and sick leave not exceeding
five (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months probation.
(c) If the person is unable to utilize full or part of  the sick leave entitlement, the employer agrees to pay the balance sick leave
at the rate of double the daily rate at the end of the year. Half days are not considered for this payment.
Formula: (Basic salary /30) X 2
(d) If an employee is unable to report for duty due to hospitalization due to Surgery or any bone fractures or any illness which
results in hospitalization, and if the employee does not have any balance leave in any category (i.e. Annual, Casual and Sick),
that person will be granted extra leave up  to a maximum of 3 months with pay subject to a recommendation of government
qualified doctor (MBBS certified Doctor) and within the company policies. For illnesses such as Mumps, Measles, Chicken
Pox, leave will be granted upto a maximum of 7 days if that is recommended by a government qualified doctor (MBBS
certified Doctor). However this can be extended at the discretion of the management based on need and medical requirement
of the individual employee.
16. Short Leave.– There is no short leave in general and an entitlment. However staff member can request a short leave not exceeding
one hour on an emergency situation subject to the discretion of the management. This period may be increased up to 2 hours if there is an
emergency situation which will need more than one hour and less than 2 hours subject to the discretion  of the management. Also this facility
should not misuse any member and if the management feels that somebody will misuse the facility, the particular person will not grant any
short leave in future.
17. Special Leave:- On 20th year and 25th year the employee will get 2 special leave and this will be applicable only for the
particular year concerned and after the 20th year and the 25th year there will not be any special leave for the particular employee and the
leave entitlement will be only Annual 14, Casual 7 and Sick 21 days.
18. Public Holidays.–
(1) The employer shall allow the following holidays normally applicable to the employees under the shop and Office Employees
Act.
(i) Thai Pongal Day
(ii) Prophet Mohamed's Birthday
(iii) National day
(iv) Day preceding Sinhala and Tamil new Year.
(v) Sinhala and Tamil  New year day
(vi) May day
(vii) Day following Wesak Full Moon poya day
(viii) Christmas day
Provided however  that an employee may be employed  a public holiday  subject to the payment of overtime.
(2) If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provision of Sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day either in
the six (6) days  immediately  precessing or in the six (6) days  immedistely succeeding such public holiday shall be granted
to the employee as a weekly holidays in accordance with the provisions of Clause 12 hereof.
(3) If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Saturday, the number of
hours constituting the normal working day (inclusive of one hour for a meal) on the day immediately proceeding such public
holiday shall be as on a Saturday.
19. Salaries and allowances.–
(1) All employees covered and bound by this agreement will be given a 10% increase with effect from 1st January 2014 based
on their individual  basic wage as at 31st December 2013 Onetime payment of  Rs. 1,000/- will be added to the  basic salary
of the all employees who are currently  working in lieu of Nopay gift and will result in the discontinuation of Nopay gift with
immediate effect. Employees new basic salaries are set out in Third Schedule hereof.

<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
(2) For the employees who are currently working in the 4 crew 3 shift patterns as per the Clause 5 and 12, a fixed allowance will
be paid as per the First Schedule. The Fixed allowance will not be changed even if the employee is put into the General shift.
(3) An  special allowance of Rs. 1000/-  will be paid for all the existing staffs to discontinue medical fund (in lieu of Medical fund).
This allowance will not be entitled by any future employees.
20. Notional Arrears:- By way of notional arrears in respect of the period First Day of July 2012 to the first day of January 2014,
the employer shall pay each employee an ex-gratia lump sum as stated in the Fourth Schedule. This payment shall not be regarded  as an
employees salary for any purpose whatsoever and will not attract EPF ETF or any other statutory payment. The payment shall be m ade
within Fourteen (14) days of the signing of this Agreement.
21. Payment mechanism to replace Non-Recurring Cast of Living Gratuity and Cost of Living ( from 1/01/2014 to 31/12/2016)
Year 2014 January Rs. 900/-
Year 2014 August Rs. 1,000/-
Year 2015 August Rs. 1,100/-
The amount would be consolidated into the salaries in the specified period of each year.
22. Shift Allowance.– Shift allowances will be enhanced starting from this agreement start date.
New shift allowances are stated below:
Shift
Morning Rs. 50
Evening Rs. 70
Night Rs. 225
23. Scholarship Scheme.– The scholarship scheme would be granted as per the terms and conditions stated below;
Objective.– To provide a limited number of scholarships to the children of non-management grades, who have proved to be
outstanding students and in need of financial assistance and as an encouragement to further their studies.
Eligibility Criteria. –
(a) Students who have passed the year 5 Scholarship Exam.
(b) Students who have passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination as per the terms mentioned below.
(c) Students who qualified to enter into the local universities under the University Grant Commission.
General Terms and Conditions on Scholarship Scheme
1. A scholarship award of Rs. 2,400/- for students who successfully passed the Year 5 scholarship examination in the previous
year.
2. A Scholarship award of Rs. 6,000/- for the students who have successfully passed the year 5 scholarship examination in and
who have achieved an average of more than 75% or very Good positions at the last term test of the previous academic year.
3. A Scholarship award of Rs. 4,000/- for the students who have successfully passed the year 5 scholarship examination in and
who have achieved an average of more than 50% or Good positions at the last term test of the previous academic year.
4. A Scholarship award of Rs. 8,000/- for the year for those students who have successful in G .C.E. O/L examination in eight (8)
subjects with 8 'A' passess for the main subjects in one sitting and continue to study in G .C.E. (A/L) class to prepare for the
University entrance examination (The eight passes should include Sinhala/Tamil/English language and Mathematics).
5. A scholarship award of Rs. 6,000/- for the year for those students who have successful in G.C.E. (O/L) examination in eight  (8)
subjects with 4 'A' passes for the main subjects in one sitting and continue to study in G .C.E. (A/L) class to prepare for the
University entrance examination (The eight passes should include Sinhala/Tamil/English language and mathematics).
6. A scholarship award of Rs. 18,000/- for the students who are successful in entering the State University as an internal student
(for this scholarship a student is allowed to sit only twice for the University Entrance Examination).

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
35A35A
AFTER ENTERING  INTO A  UNIVERSITY;
• If maintain a first class Rs. 23,000 will be paid per year.
• If maintain second lower class or more, Rs. 18,000 will be paid per year.
• If the person achieve pass marks for all the subjects of the year and not have any repeat subjects, Rs. 9,000/- will be paid for
the studying year.
Those parents of the students who seek assistance under the scheme are required to produce a certificate from the Registrar of
the University or the Principal of the school as the case may be, giving details of the student's  academic achievement.
The award will be presented by cheque to enable the student to open a saving account in the Bank specified by the parent.
This will be in force with effect from 1st January 2014 and those who have obtained the scholarship under the previous
agreement are not qualified on the same category.
24. Festival Advances.–  The festival advance will be increased to a maximum of Rs. 25,000/- and this will be deducted from the salary
starting from the following month and in 10 installments. However if an employee is due to retire within this period, the number of installments
will be calculated based on the number of months available until retirement.
25. Wages for Periods Less than One Month.- For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the following manner :
(a) for one hour - the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240);
(b) for one day - the monthly wage divided by thirty (30);
(c) for one half day (either - a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two  (2);
morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week - a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7).
26. Rates of Provident Fund Contributions.– (1) The rates of the contribution to the Provident Fund shall be in accordance with
provisions of the  Employees' Provident Fund Act No. 15 of 1958.
27. Annual Increments and Bonus.– Annual targets will be set on the employees’ duties keeping in line with performance appraisal
process of Unilever Sri Lanka. Accordingly invrements and bonuses will be based on achieving annual targets. Targets will be set out as per
the work plan and 3+1 targets concept in consultation with respective line manager and increments will be aligened as stated below:
1. Annual Increments
3 + 1 target along with the PDP system of Uniliver. Accordingly all increments will be based on achievements of the annual targets
and the increments there are two types of increments as stated below;

<!-- page 36 -->

36A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
Performance Increment:
Description Achievement rate* Annual
increment %
Exceptional 6 Beyond 100% 11 to 12
Very Good 5 Achieved 96 - 100% with high quality 8 to 10
Good 4 Achieved 75% - 95% 6 to 7
Average 3 Achieved above 50 - 74% 3 to 5
Satisfactory 2 Achieved 25 - 49% with required qualitiy 1 to 2
Unsatisfactory 1 Below 25% 0
CA Increments: this also will be given based on the individual performance measured by the PDP system.
Description Achievement rate* Annual
increment %
Exceptional 6 Beyond 100% 11
Very Good 5 Achieved 96 - 100% with high quality 8
Good 4 Achieved 75% - 95% 6
Average 3 Achieved above 50 - 74% 5
Satisfactory 2 Achieved 25 - 49% with required qualitiy 3
Unsatisfactory 1 Below 25% 0
The annual increments mentioned as above shall be paid as per the performance of an Individual unless as a matter of punishment for general
inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality or disciplinary action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended,
stopped or deferred, in which case where an increment is;
(a) Deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous through out the year,
(b) Stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year,
(c) Suspended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision, an increment is neither stopped
nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof,
shall accrue to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the employee has been notified in writing
of a complaint against such employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct, which in  the
circumstances does not merit termination of employment.
2. Annual Bonus.– Annual targets will be set on the employees’ duties as per the work plan concept of Unilever Sri Lanka and
bonuses will be based on achieving those annual targets.
Bonus categorie ;
Fixed Bonus : 2.5 months
Attendance Bonus : 0.5 months
if anyone didn’t undergone no-pay, he will qualify for this Bonus and if not this portion will not pay.
Variable bonus as per the performance rating of individuals with regards to 3 + 1 targets.
Description Achievement rate* Bonus % on
annual basic
salary
Exceptional 6 Beyond 100% 12
Very Good 5 Achieved 96 - 100% with high quality 11
Good 4 Achieved 75% - 95% 10
Average 3 Achieved above 50 - 74% 7 - 9
Satisfactory 2 Achieved 25 - 49% with required quality 1 - 6
Unsatisfactory 1 Below 25% 0
* All achievement rates will be measured by the respective line Manager.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
37A37A
28. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the employee by a
letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses. Provided however, that the Union disputes the warning imposed on the
employee by the employer and requests the holding of an inquiry, the employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to
the holding of an inquiry shall  then apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days
after receipt of the employee's explanation shall not be material or relevant.
29. Suspension.–
(1) An Employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer ;
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct  which warrants dismissal ;
(b) In order to avoid a breach of peace or damage to the property or disturbance of the business of the employer,
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after due inquiry.
2. At the time of suspension under Sub-clause (1) ( a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide the
Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter hold an inquiry into
the charge or charges against him, if any.
30. Disciplinary Action.– Where the employer proposed to proceed against an employee then:
1. Irrespective of whether an employee has been suspended under Clause 29 hereof or not, the employee shall be furnished
with a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such
employee and such show cause notice shall give the employee not less than three (3) clear working days in which to give the
answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
2. Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the employee shall furnish in writing to the
employer the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances, it is reasonable the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by an employee to the Employer, the
Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
3. If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee, the employee shall if he is under
suspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
4. If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within ten (10) days from the
date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
5. After holding such Inquiry the Employer shall notify the employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, If any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except for
reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from the
conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such
charges and no inference adverse to the employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
6. If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that:
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub clause 25 (c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespective
of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the finding as to the charges in
the show cause notice;
(b) The employee shall be dismissed, the employee's dismissal shall take effect from the date of the employee's suspension
and accordingly the employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigation or inquiries and that the matter be therefore, referred to the Police or other authorities or if in
view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the employee the matter had been previously
referred to the Police or other authorities or for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or
inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.

<!-- page 38 -->

38A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
7) If in any case where an employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make an order under paragraphs
(a) to ( c) of the preceding sub – clause for any reason other than that of the employee's own seeking within thirty (30)
working days from the date of the employee's suspension, the employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for
the period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in
excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding
sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(8) In any case where an employee is suspended as provided herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs ( a) to
(c) of  sub-clause 6 within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the employee unless they are prevented from so doing
by reason of the employee's own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between the
Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for such further time
as may be agreed.
31. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by his
employer and there shall be no obligation on the employer to give the employee any notice of such retirement, provided however, that an
employee who has retired may, in the discretion of his employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms and
may be mutually agreed.
32. Termination of Service.–
 1. Every contract, whether oral or written for the hire of any employee by the employer except for work usually performed
by the day or by the job or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of Clause 8 hereof or unless otherwise expressly stipulated) be
deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one (1) month and to be renewable, from month to month and
shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month's notice be given by either party to the other of his inten tion to be
determine the same and such month has expired.
2. Where an employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period or on the failure
of the employee to complete the job within a reasonable time.
33. Gratuity.– All employees who have served in excess of five years but less than ten years shall be entitled to gratuity in cessation
of employment in accordance with the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983. Employees who have served in excess
of ten years will be paid gratuity at the rate of one month's salary for each year of service.
34. Medical Insurance .– Surgical and Hospital Expenses Medical Insurance Cover of Rs. 200,000/- per family unit and
Rs. 25,000/- of OPD Insurance through a reputed Insurance Company on an agreed premium payment per year. Employer would pay 52.5%
and employee 47.5% of the premium. In the event of any increase in premium the Employer/ Employee would pay the increase amount at
the agreed percentage rate of 52.5% and 47.5% respectively.
35. Workmen's Compensation.– All employees shall be entitled to the Workmen's Compensation under the Workmen's Compensa-
tion (Amended) Act.
36. Provision of Transport for Medical Assistance.– Employer will pay the following amounts to facilitate employees to arrange
their own transport for medical visits for themselves and their families. Family is defined as spouse and children who are not married and
below the age of 25.
Glenline/Agarapathana Hospital Rs. 300/-
(this does not include morning medical trip
to Agarapathana Hospital)
Lindula Hospital Rs. 1,200/-
Talawakelle Hospital/Medical Centres Rs. 1,500/-
A medical certificate and the original diagnoses card from a valid MBBS qualified doctor needs to be presented to obtain this claim.
For distances travelled beyond Talawakelle, the employer will bear a cost of Rs. 850/- and a distress loan will be provided to the
employee to be paid back in three months starting from the immediate payroll date. The distress loan amount will be calculated based on
deducting the Rs. 850/- from the cost of travel given below:
Town Amount Rs.
Hatton 2,500/-
Nuwara Eliya 3,000/-
Nawalapitiya 4,500/-
Kandy 6,000/-
The above amounts will only applicable for medical trips commencing from Agarapathana / Lindula, areas.
Number of occasions to be claimed is up to a maximum of 13 occasions per quarter.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
39A39A
37. Medical Inspections and Supply of Protective Clothing.– The employer shall make arrangements for the inspection of the general
health and sanitary conditions of the establishment by a qualified medical practitioner.
38. Pilgrimages.– The employer will pay each employee Rupees Two Thousand and Four Hundred (Rs. 2,400) per year for the purpose
of a Pilgrimage.
39. Transport for Funerals.– The employer will provide transport to the employees to attend a funeral of a fellow employee.
40. Disputes Procedure.–
(a) Where an employee covered and bound by the Agreement wishes to make representations to Management in respect of an
individual grievance, dispute or other matter, such employee shall, in the first instance, discuss the matter with his immediate
superior.
(b) If the matter is, in the opinion of the employee not satisfactorily settled by his immediate superior, such employee may discuss
the matter with the HRBP Agarapathana and if he so desires with a representative from the branch union.
(c) If in the opinion of the employee the matter is not satisfactorily settled at stage ( b) the matter may then be discussed with the
Factory Manager, Agarapathana.
(d) If the matter is, in the opinion of the employee not satisfactorily settled at the level of the Factory Manager Agarapathana t he
employee concerned together with the representatives of the Branch and / or Parent Union, if he so desires shall, discuss the
matter with the National ER Manager.
(e) In the event of the matter not being satisfactorily settled at stage ( d), the Branch Union may, through the Parent Union take the
matter to the Board of Directors of the Company.
Where there is a dispute between two employees of different departments, either of such employees may take up such dispute
through his superiors in like manner.
41. General matters.–  The Union may, from time to time, make representations to the Company on general matters concerning its
membership.
The Company will decide whether such matters should be discussed and if discussion on any matter it thought desirable, Manage-
ment may summon a meeting for such purpose.
42. Trade Union Action.– During the period of this Agreement, the Union hereby undertakes not to seek or vary or alter any of the
terms and conditions covered by this Agreement and also expressly undertakes not to engage in strikes or any other forms of Trade Union
actions in respect of a dispute, but will have such disputes settled in accordance with sub clause of Arbitration.
43. Withdrawal of Benefits.– In the event of the Union (or any employee bound by this agreement), doing any act or acts which are
contrary to this Agreement and thereby committing such a breach of this Agreement or any part thereof, the Company shall be at liberty to
withdraw all or any of the benefits granted under this Agreement or terminate the Agreement by giving notice of one month.
Where benefits are withdrawn under this section and the matter is referred to an arbitrator for a decision under Arbitration Clause and such
arbitrator determines that such withdrawal of benefits was unjustified in terms of this Agreement, the Company shall pay such benefit in arrears.
44. Arbitration.–
(a) It is hereby agreed that during the term of this Agreement, any dispute whatsoever, which has not been settled by negotiations
between Management and the Union, whether such dispute concerns the terms of this Agreement shall be referred to
arbitration under the Industrial Disputes Act.
(b) The Union and Management shall agree on a clear statement of the matter in dispute, if necessary with the assistance of the
Commissioner of Labour.
If the choice of the Arbitrator or the statement of the matter in dispute cannot be agreed to, either party may make an
application to the Commissioner of Labour to determine the statement of the matter in dispute and refer such matter to such
Arbitrator as he may nominate.
Any dispute regarding the interpretations of this Agreement shall also be referred in like manner to arbitration.
Both parties agree to accept and be bound by the verdict of the Arbitrator.

<!-- page 40 -->

40A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
(c) If a dispute arises from the action taken by employer in relation to an employee or a group of employees that in the opinion
of the Union will undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union or its memebers, the Union will in the first
instance discuss the dispute with the Employer with a view to bring about an amicable settlement.
If the Union is not satisfied with the discussion and the explanation given by the employer, the Union may take any form of
trade union action. The Union will inform the employer in writing before such action is taken. The employer reserves the right
to take such steps as it may deem fit.
45. How Anomalies in the Course of Implementing this Agreement shall be Dealt with.– Any anomaly arising from the implemen-
tation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between representatives of the employer and the Union, and if the matter cannot be
settled by negotiation the matter shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the reg ulations
thereunder.
46. V ariations of Terms and Conditions of Employment, Benefits.–
(1) The Union and its members and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they will not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the
terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement
as amended or altered in terms of this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees
covered and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
(2) The Employer agree with the Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement that they
shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by the employees covered and bound
by this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiation under the provisions of sub-clause (1) or (2) may be resolved by
voluntary arbitration but only if both parties concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.
47. Domestic Inquiries.– If an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 30 of Part I hereof is a
member of the Union, the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notic e.
(a) The employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as “an
observer”) to be present as an observer without loss of salary for absence from work.
(b) If the employee who is served with a show cause notice desires an observer to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such observer.
(c) An observer may answer any question which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an observer shall not
be entitled to represent the employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an observer who obstructs such inquiry in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such
inquiry, nor the proceedings thereto, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
48. Union Meetings.– The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union:
(a) In respect of each meeting which the employees desires to hold at the Employer's premises, an application for permission
shall be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more of the under
noted conditions:
(i) That no person other than an employee in the service of the Employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union;
(ii) On occasion such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, the office bearers of the Union may with the prior
approval of the Employer, attend;
(iii) Fix time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of or in the
connection with a  meeting of the Branch Union to the Employer's property or any other persons at the employer’s
premises and the Union shall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against such damage.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
41A41A
49. Duty Leave.–
(1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to grant permission
if, in it’s discretion, the exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for one
representative.
(a) to be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employers' Federation of Ceylon or the Department of Labour in
connection with a dispute between the employees and the employer.
or
(b) to attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals, without loss of salary for such absence.
The employer, will in their discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an employee to attend a Trade Union Course or Seminar
or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad on no pay leave unless the employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidays which he
wishes to utilize for the purpose.
The President or the Secretary of the Branch Union will be granted duty leave one day per month (if the said officer is working in
General Shift, he will be granted two hours short leave of the following day if it is only a working day) to the executive committee without
prejudice to the right of the employer to refuse to grant permission if in his discretion the exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal.
The Branch Union should send a written request to the management at least one week before the date of the meeting along with the Parent
Union notice/letter. One nominated representative to the delegate conference held once in two years would be given 2 days duty leave upon
written request by the union.
50. Check off.–
(1) In this clause "Employer" shall mean the Employer bound by this Collective Agreement and in whose establishment the
membership of the Union is not less than forty per cent (40%) of the employees covered, and bound by this Agreement.
(2) The employer shall, on the written request of an employee, deduct from the wages due to such employee the current monthly
Union dues as are specified by the employee to be payable monthly by the employee to the Union and remit the amount so
deducted to the Union, in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
(3) Every employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to the effect in the form
set out in Form No. 1 hereinafter referred to as an " Authorization" as set out in the Fifth Schedule hereto.
(4) Every employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in Form No.2 hereinafter referred to as a " Revocation" as set out in the Sixth Schedule hereto.
(5) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(6) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation canceling such
authorization, Provided however:
(a) That the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the employee concerned for failure
to comply with paragraphs (5) or (6) above.
(b) That, in his discretion, the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check off in any month in
which the deduction by way of check off will together with all other deductions from an employee's wages in that
month exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(7) The employer shall not later than the tenth day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
employees in the month immediately preceding to the treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
Authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and cross "Account Payee".
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelop addressed to
the treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of  the Unions shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf, as aforesaid, any sum other than the
actual decutions made.

<!-- page 42 -->

42A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
51. The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
employer that during the continuance in force of this agreement all existing work norms at the factory such as through puts, the continuance
manufacture without interruption during intervals and the performance of whatever work that is assigned to the employees in the factory will
be continued without any variation whatsover and whatever variation in this regard will not be effected other than by mutual agreement between
parties.
The Employer undertakes that during the currency of this Agreement all concessions, benefits and privileges currently extended to the Union
and its members and employees covered and bound by this Agreement will continue to be extended without variation whatsoever. Should any
variation become necessary, the same will be given effect to after mutual agreement between parties hereto.
52. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of January, Two Thousand and
Fourteen, and shall thereafter continue  in force unless it is determined by either party giving six (6) months notice in writing to the other.
Provided however, that neither party shall give such notice to the other before the First day of June, Two Thousand and  Sixteen  and such
notice shall not expire before the Thirty First day of December, Two Thousand and Sixteen.
53. Other  Terms and  Benefits
(1) Curfew Allowance per day is Rs. 150/-
(2) Death of an Employee
in the event of a death of an employee, the company agrees to make an ex-gratia payment of Rs. 50,000 in respect of funeral
expenses.
(3) Service Award
The company agrees to give service awards as follows:
15 years of service - 1 Sovereign Gold Coin
20 years of service - 1 1/2 Sovereign Gold Coin
25 years of service - 2 1/2 Sovereign Gold Coin
54. Definitions.– In this Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set
opposite to them.
Words M eaning
The Industrial Disputes The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950 as amended.
Employer (For convenience sometimes referred The Employer, Premium Exports (Ceylon) Ltd; covered and bound by this
to as ‘he’ or its grammatical variations) Agreement.
Employee (For convenience sometimes referred An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
to as ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)
Union The Union shall be a reference to The Ceylon Mercantile Industrial and General
Workers’ Union.
Dispute A dispute or difference between the Employer and an employee or between the
Employer and the Union on any matter covered by this Agreement or affecting
the Employees covered by this Agreement in relation to their employment under
the Employer.
Year A continuous period of twelve (12) months.
Week The period between midnight of any Saturday Night  and midnight on the
Succeeding Saturday night.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
43A43A
FIRST SCHEDULE
Fixed Allowance
Name Fixed Allowance
1. K. Raamajeyam 31,763.13
2. N. Jayaseelan 31,631.25
3. N. D. Bulathwatte 33,061.88
4. S. Balasingham 31,426.88
5. R. A. I. Senanayake 31,835.63
6. J. P . I. Shyamalal 25,306.25
The fixed allowance has been calculated by-
Basic Salary (prior to signing the Collective Agreement of 2014 – 2017) x 3 x 50
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
240
The fixed allowance:
1. Will be taken into the EPF & ETF calculation.
2. Is entitled to the Gratuity.
3. Will be a fixed income hereinafter and no any increments on the Fixed allowance.
4. Is being decided for the staff who are currently working in the 4 Crew 3 shift pattern and to work on Saturday and Sunday as
Normal working days without any enhanced payments or overtime within the normal working hours.
5. Fixed allowance shall not be entitled by any future employees.
SECOND SCHEDULE
Production/Attendance Incentive Schemes
A. Production Incentive Scheme. – All staff grade Employees will be entitled for a monthly production incentive which is linked
with achievement of two Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Monthly target for each KPI and the impact each one of them has on t he
production incentive (weightage) is given in the following table.
KPI Target Weightage
Production Efficiency 90% 80%
First Time Quality 98% 20%
Maximum production incentive which can be earned by each employee, if targets for both KPIs are achieved in a particular month,
will be 4.0% of his monthly basic salary.
However if the production efficiency increases 95% or above, the production incentive will be 6% subject to the first time quality
also achieved 98% or more.
If only one KPI target is met in a month, production incentive will be calculated based on the weightage specified for that KPI.
If both KPI targets could not be achieved in a month, production incentive for that month will be zero.
However, to be able to claim any production incentive, an employee should meet following criteria with respect to attendance
to work.
 No. of leaves (casual, sick or day offs when in general shift) taken by him/her in that month should not be more than two days.
 Annual leaves taken with prior approval is exempted.
Example:
Basic Salary of Employee A is Rs. 25,000.00
He has taken 1 unplanned leave (casual) and 3 annual leaves (with prior approval) in February.
Production Efficiency for the Month of February is 92% and First Time Quality is 97%.
Applicable Production Incentive for Employee A = 25,000 x 4.0% x 80% = Rs. 800.00

<!-- page 44 -->

44A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
SECOND  SCHEDULE (CONTINUATION)
Definition of KPIs
1. Production Efficiency
This is to measure how well the production time is utilized to manufacture products with right quality. Method of calculation is briefly
described below:
Good Output
Specified Speed
Effective Time (E)
Production Time (P)
This Production Efficiency will be calculated on daily basis for both towers and a monthly aggregate  value (weightage average)
calculated at the end of the month. It is this aggregate value which will be considered in calculating the Production Incentive.
Specified speeds of Spray Dryers for different products :
Spray Dryer Product Specified Speed
(Kg/ hr)
Tower 1 Saint Bright 250
STD 777 230
STD 896 230
140XHBD 150
140XLBD 150
STD 7 150
STD 77L 220
STD 107X 230
Green Tea 125
STD 9 132
Dark Milled 225
Tower 2 Saint Dark 90
STD 789 75
These speeds are reviewed/ revised annually or whenever
*  a significant improvement in speeds observed and is sustained for more than two months.
* a new product is introduced.
* a change in the process happens which leads to change in speeds.
Example :
Total production of good powder (Saint Bright) manufactured = 5,500 kg
Qty of unfit powder, due to presence of black particles = 200 kg
Total production time = 24 hrs
Stoppage due to particles in product = 2 hrs
Effective Time = 5,500/250 = 22 hrs
Production Efficiency = 22 hrs/ 24 hrs = 91.6%
O Operational Time
P Production Time
E Effective Time Unexpected
Stoppages
Routine Production
Stoppages
Effective Time =
Production Efficiency=

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
45A45A
2. First Time Quality
This is the production with right quality in the first time as a percentage of total production. formula for calculating same is give below.
                                  No. of boxes without quality issues
                       Total No. of boxes produced
Example :
Total No. of boxes manufactured in February = 3,840
No. of unfit boxes = 50
Number of boxes with right quality in the first time = 3,790
First Time Quality for February = 3,790 / 3,840 X 100 = 98.7%
B. ATTENDANCE INCENTIVE SCHEME
All staff members are eligible for a monthly attendance incentive payment of  Rs. 1,000/-. A staff member is eligible for same as follows:
(a) Present for work on all days work offered during the month : 100%
(b) Planned/Approved Annual Leave/Day offs** : 100%
(c) If one day casual or sick leave taken during the month : 75%
(d) If two days casual or sick leave taken during the month : 50%
(e) More than 2 days casual or sick leave taken during the month : No Payment
**Day offs  is entitled only by the general shift  employees if work on a Sunday.
THIRD  SCHEDULE
3.1. New Basic Salaries of all staff grade employees who are currently working with effect from 1st January, 2014.
# Emp. No. Name New Basic Salaries
1 135 K. G . Karunadasa 45,964.15
2 141 K. Raamajeyam 57,893.10
3 185 N. Jayaseelan 57,661.00
4 186 N. D. Bulathwatte 60,178.90
5 243 S. Balasingham 57,301.30
6 245 R. A. I. Senanayake 58,020.70
7 328 J. P . I. Shyamalal 46,529.00
First Time Quality =
 

<!-- page 46 -->

46A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
3.2 Staff Salary Scale applicable only for the new recruits and the scale is applicable only when hiring and promotions
from one grades to another.
When promoting a staff within the staff grades from IV to I above, his salary will be placed and adjust with two stages of the next level.
e.g. if the staff’s salary is Rs. 48,000/- and if promoting to from II grade to I grade, his new salary will be 48,567/- and therea fter, his
increments will not refer the salary scale. This is only applicable within the staff grade promotions.

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
47A47A
FOURTH  SCHEDULE
Notional Arrears and NRCLG arrears calculation

<!-- page 48 -->

48A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
FIFTH SCHEDULE
Form No. 1
Name of Employer :
AUTHORIZATION
As I am an employee covered and bound by this Collective Agreement and I desire to avail myself of the facility for check off
contained in Clause ................ of the said Collective Agreement to which I am entitled as a member of  Ceylon Mercantile Industrial
and General Workers’ Union, please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees .............................(Rs..............................)
in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit the same to the Said Union on my behalf. The first
payment should please be made from my wages next due immediately following the date hereof.
.......................................................... .................................................................
                Date of Signing                Signature of Employee
.............................................................
Full name of Employee
RECEIVED ON ...............................................
(To be filled  by the Employer)
 SIXTH SCHEDULE
Form No. 2
Name of Employer :
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour
of Ceylon Mercantile Industrial and General Workers’ Union, with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the
date hereof.
.......................................................... .................................................................
              Date of Signing Signature of Employee
.............................................................
Full name of Employee 
RECEIVED ON ...............................................
(To be filled  by the Employer)

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2014'08'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2014
49A49A
08 - 652
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI  LANKA.