

<!-- page 1 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'06
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST RE PUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 06.01.2022
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  III – LANDS
Land Acquisition Notices
wxl 2261$67 – 2022 ckjdß 06 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2022'01'06
No. 2261/67 – THURSDAY, JANUARY  06, 2022
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 35770 – 20 (2022/01)
THE  LAND  ACQUISITION  ACT  (CHAPTER   460)
Declaration under Section 5
I, Samarakoon Mudiyanselage Chandrasena, Minister of 
Lands do hereby declare, under Sub-section (1) of  Section 
5 of the Land Acquisition Act, that the land described below 
is needed for a public purpose and will be acquired under the 
provisions of that Act.
 The allotments of land described as following names and 
extents in the Advance Tracing No. GA/BIY/2019/311 dated 
29.07.2019, prepared by the Surveyor General, situated at 
the villages of Mabima, Pattiwila, in Mabima West - 276 
A, Pattiwila South- 279 A Grama Niladhari Divisions, in 
Adhikari Pattuwa Minor Division, in Biyagama Divisional 
Secretary's Division of Gampaha District, Western Province 
and bounded as follows.  
 01. Lot 'A' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0061 
Hectare
 North: Diwela Kumbura claimed by the government, 
Halgahawatta claimed by the government and Halgahawatta 
claimed by Don Marshal Kahanda; East: Remaining portion 
of the said land; South: Remaining portion of the said land, 
Diwele Kumbura claimed by K.A. Wilman and Lot B; West: 
Lot B, Diwela Kumbura claimed by the Government and 
Halgahawatta claimed by the Government.
 02. Lot 'B' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0121 
Hectare
 North: Diwela Kumbura claimed by the government and 
Lot A; East: Lot A Diwela Kumbura claimed by K.A.D.M. 
Sandaseeli and remaining portion of the said land; South: 
Remaining portion of the said land, Diwele Kumbura claimed 
by P.D. Wineetha Dayakanthi and Lot C; West: Lot C and 
Diwela Kumbura claimed by the government.
 03. Lot 'C' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0086 
Hectare
 North: Diwela Kumbura claimed by the government, and 
Lot B; East: Lot B, Diwele Kumbura claimed by K.A. Wilman 
and remaining portion of the said land; South: Remaining 
portion of the said land and land claimed by the government; 
West: Diwela Kumbura claimed by the government.


<!-- page 2 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'06
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST RE PUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 06.01.2022
 2A
 04. Lot 'D' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0067 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land and Diwela 
Kumbura claimed by the government; East: Diwela 
Kumbura claimed by the government and land claimed by 
the government; South: Diwela Kumbura claimed by the 
government land claimed by the government, and Lot E; West: 
Lot E, Diwela Kumbura claimed by K. Sirisena and others 
and remaining portion of the said land.
 05. Lot 'E' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0065 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by P.D. Wineetha Dayakanthi and Lot D; East: Lot 
D and land claimed by the government; South: Land claimed 
by the government and Lot F; West: Lot F, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by L.S. Piyasena and others and remaining portion 
of the said land.
 06. Lot 'F' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0077 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land and Diwela 
Kumbura claimed by K. Sirisena and others and Lot E; 
East: Lot E and land claimed by the government; South: 
Land claimed by the government and Lot G; West: Lot G, 
Diwela Kumbura claimed by K.A.D. Babanis and others and 
remaining portion of the said land.
 07. Lot 'G' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0074 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by L.S. Piyasena and others and Lot F; East: Lot F 
and land claimed by the government; South: Land claimed 
by the government and Lot H; West: Lot H, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by H.K. Sirisena and others and remaining portion 
of the said land.
 08. Lot 'H' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0077 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by K.A.D. Babanis and others and Lot G; East: Lot 
G and land claimed by the government; South: Land claimed 
by the government and Lot J; West: Lot J, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by K.A. Premarathne and others and remaining 
portion of the said land.
 09. Lot 'J' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0217 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by K. Sirisena and others and Lot H; East: Lot H and 
land claimed by the government; South: Land claimed by the 
government and Lot K; West: Lot K, Diwela Kumbura claimed 
by H.K. Adhikari and K. Wimalarathne and remaining portion 
of the said land.
 10. Lot 'K' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0168 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by K. A. Premarathne and others and Lot J; East: Lot 
J and land claimed by the government; South: Land claimed 
by the government and Lot M; West: Lot M, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by K.A. Premarathne and remaining portion of the 
said land.
 11. Lot 'M' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0069 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by H.K. Adhikari and K. Wimalarathne and Lot K; 
East: Lot K and land claimed by the government; South: 
Land claimed by the government and Lot N; West: Lot N, 
Galabodairawalla claimed by K.A.D. Podiappuhamy and 
remaining portion of the said land.
 12. Lot 'N' – Galabodairawalla - Extent : About 0.0103 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Diwela Kumbura 
claimed by K.A. Premarathne and Lot M; East: Lot M and 
land claimed by the government; South: Land claimed by 
the government and Lot P; West: Lot P, Galabodairawalla 
claimed by K.A.D. Babanis and others and remaining portion 
of the said land.
 13. Lot 'P' – Diwela Kumbura - Extent : About 0.0063 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Galabodairawalla 
claimed by K.A.D. Podiappuhamy and Lot N; East: Lot N 
and land claimed by the government; South: Land claimed by 
the government and Lot Q; West: Lot Q, Welakapukumbura 
claimed by K.D. Wijerathne and others and remaining portion 
of the said land.
 14. Lot 'Q' – Welakapukumbura - Extent : About 0.0301 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Galabodairawalla 
claimed by K.A.D. Babanis and others and Lot P; East: Lot 
P and land claimed by the government; South: Land claimed 
by the government and Lot R; West: Lot R, land claimed by 
K.A. Premarathne and remaining portion of the said land.
 15. Lot 'R' –  Extent : About 0.0245 Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Welakapukumbura 
claimed by K.D. Wijerathne and others and Lot Q; East: Lot 
Q and land claimed by the government; South: Land claimed 
by the government and Lot S; West: Lot S, land claimed by 
P.M. Somawathie Perera and others  and remaining portion 
of the said land.
 16. Lot 'S' –  Extent : About 0.0224 Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, land claimed by 
K.A. Premarathne and Lot R; East: Lot R and land claimed by 
the government; South: Land claimed by the government and 
Lot T; West: Lot T, Kanuketiyaowita of which the claimant 
cannot be found and  remaining portion of the said land.

<!-- page 3 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'01'06
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST RE PUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 06.01.2022
 3A
 17. Lot 'T' – Kanuketiyaowita - Extent : About 0.0471 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, land claimed 
by P.M. Somawathie Perera and others and Lot S; East: Lot S 
and land claimed by the government and Depa Canal; South: 
Land claimed by the government, Depa canal and Lot U; West: 
Lot U, Depa canal and remaining portion of the said land.
 18. Lot 'U' –  Extent : About 0.0059 Hectare
 North: Depa canal, Kanukatiyaowita of which the claimant 
cannot be found, Lot T and land claimed by the government; 
East and South: Depa canal, land claimed by N.P.R. 
Udayakumara and Lot V; West: Depa canal, Kanuketiyaowita 
of which the claimant cannot be found and Lot T.
 19. Lot 'V' –  Extent : About 0.0072 Hectare
 North: Depa canal, Lot U and remaining portion of said 
land; East: Remaining portion of the said land; South: 
Remaining portion of the said land, Mepillewa Owita claimed 
by K.D. Thilakarathne and Lot W; West: Lots W, X, Depa 
canal and Lot U.
 20. Lot 'W' – Mepillewa - Extent : About 0.0193 Hectare
 North: Lot X and V; East: Lot V , land claimed by N.P.R. 
Udayakumara and remaining portion of the said land; South: 
Remaining portion of the said land; West: Maha canal and 
Lot X.
 21. Lot 'X' – Extent : About 0.0023 Hectare
 North: Depa canal and  Lot U; East: Lot V and W; South: 
Lots V , W and Z; West: Lot Z, Maha canal and Depa canal.
 22. Lot 'Y' – Mepillewa Owita - Extent : About 0.0202 
Hectare
 North: Lot Z , Maha canal and Mepillewa Owita claimed 
by K.D. Thilakarathne; East: Mepillewa Owita claimed by 
K.D. Thilakarathne and remaining portion of the said land; 
South: Remaining portion of the said land; West: Remaining 
portion of the said land, Maha canal and Lot Z.
 23. Lot 'Z' –  Extent : About 0.0425 Hectare
 North: Lot AA, Kalugopillewa claimed by K.D.P.M.S. 
Chandrarathne and Maha canal; East: Lot X.W. Mepillewa 
Owita claimed by K.D. Thilakarathne, Maha canal and Lot 
Y; South: Maha canal, Lot Y Mepillewa Owita claimed by 
K.A.D. Sunil; West: Maha canal, Kalugopillewa claimed by 
K.D.P.M.S. Chandrarathne and Lot AA.
 24. Lot 'AA' – Kalugopillewa - Extent : About 0.1850 
Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Lot Z and Maha 
canal; East: Lot Z; South: Lot Z, Maha canal, remaining 
portion of the said land, Meegahaowita claimed by S. 
Gunasekara and others, Kotuwellekumbura and Lot AB; West: 
Remaining portion of the said land, Meegahaowita claimed 
by S. Gunasekara and others, Kotuwellekumbura and Lot AB.
 25. Lot 'AB' – Meegahaowita, Kotuwellekumbura - 
Extent : About 0.2409 Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Kalugopillewa 
claimed by K.D.P.M.S Chandrarathne and Lot AA; East: Lot 
AA, Kalugopillewa claimed by K.D.P.M.S. Chandrarathne and 
remaining portion of the said land; South: Remaining portion 
of the said land, Kotuwellekumbura claimed by M.K.P. Alwis 
and others and Lot AC; West: Lot AC, Kotuwellekumbura 
claimed by M.K.P. Alwis and others and remaining portion 
of the said land.
 26. Lot 'AC' – Kotuwellekumbura - Extent : About 
0.0240 Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Meegahaowita 
claimed by S. Gunasekara and others, Kotuwellekumbura 
and Lot AB; East: Lot AB, Meegahaowita claimed by S. 
Gunasekara and others, Kotuwellekumbura and remaining 
portion of the said land; South: Remaining portion of the said 
land, Midellagaha Kumbura claimed by K.A. Gunasinghe 
and Lot AD; West: Lot AD, Midellagaha Kumbura claimed 
by K.A. Gunasinghe and remaining portion of the said land.
 27. Lot 'AD' – Midellagaha Kumbura - Extent : About 
0.0561 Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, 
Kotuwellekumbura claimed by M.K.P. Alwis and others 
and Lot AC; East: Lot AC, Kotuwellekumbura claimed 
by M.K.P. Alwis and others and remaining portion of 
the said land; South: Remaining portion of the said land, 
Kebellagahakumbura alias Kurundugahakumbura claimed by 
U.V . Gunasekara and A.A.D. Shirani and Lot AE; West: Lot AE, 
Kebellagahakumbura alias Kurundugahakumbura claimed by 
U.V . Gunasekara and A.A.D. Shirani and Lot AE; West: Lot 
AE Kebellagahakumbura alias Kurundugahakumbura claimed 
by U.V . Gunasekara and A.A.D. Shirani and remaining portion 
of the said land.
 28. Lot 'AE' – Kebellagahakumbura alias 
Kurundugahakumbura - Extent : About 0.2649 Hectare
 North: Remaining portion of the said land, Midellagaha 
Kumbura claimed by K.A. Gunasinghe and Lot AD; East: Lot 
AD, Midellagaha Kumbura claimed by K.A. Gunasinghe and 
remaining portion of the said land; South: Remaining portion 
of the said land and road; West: Road and remaining portion 
of the said land.
 S. M. Chandrasena,
 Minister of Lands.
My No.: 4-3/18/2018/WS/474.
Ministry of Lands,
“Mihikatha Medura”, Land Secretariat,
Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
22nd April, 2021.
EOG01-0073
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.