

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 16.25  Postage  :  Rs. 7.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  March 03, 2006
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 26th February, 2006]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
GENEV A CONVENTIONS
ACT,  No.  4  OF  2006

<!-- page 2 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 1
[Certified on 26th February, 2006]
L.D. — O. 62/2004.
A N  ACT  TO  GIVE  EFFECT  TO  THE  FIRST , SECOND , THIRD  AND  FOURTH
G ENEV A CONVENTIONS  ON  ARMED  CONFLICT  AND  HUMANITARIAN
LAW ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR
INCIDENTAL  THERETO
WHEREAS Sri Lanka is a State Party to the First, Second,
Third and Fourth Geneva Conventions relating to Armed
Conflict and Humanitarian Law having ratified the said
Geneva Conventions on February 28, 1959 :
AND WHEREAS the aforesaid Geneva Conventions have
entered into force in respect of Sri Lanka on February 28,
1959 :
AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to make legislative
provision to give effect to Sri Lanka’s  obligations under the
aforesaid Geneva Conventions :
NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Geneva Conventions
Act, No 4  of 2006 and shall come into operation on such
date as the Minister may by Order published in the Gazette
appoint (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”).
(2) Different dates may be appointed for the different
Parts of the Act to come into operation.
PART 1
P
RELIMINARY
2. (1) Any person, whether a citizen of Sri Lanka or not,
who within or outside Sri Lanka —
(a) commits or attempts to commit; or
Preamble.
Short title and date
of operation.
Grave breaches of
Conventions to be
offences.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
(b) aids, abets, conspires or procures the  commission
by any other person of,
a grave breach in terms of the relevant Articles of the
Conventions as are set out in Schedule I, Schedule II,
Schedule III and Schedule IV to this Act and are also
enumerated in subsection (2) of this section, shall be guilty
of an offence.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)—
(a) a grave breach of the First Convention is a breach of
that Convention involving an act referred to in Article
50 of that Convention committed against persons
or property protected by that Convention;
(b) a grave breach of the Second Convention is a breach
of that Convention involving an act referred to in
Article 51 of that Convention committed against
person or property protected by that Convention ;
(c) a grave breach of the Third Convention is a breach
of that Convention involving an act referred to in
Article 130 of that Convention committed against
persons or property protected by that Convention ;
and
(d) a grave breach of the Fourth Convention is a breach
of that Convention involving an act referred to in
Article 147 of that Convention committed against
persons or property protected by that Convention.
(3) For the purposes of this section “aids”,  “abets”,
“conspires” and “procures” shall have the same meaning as
is assigned to them in the Penal Code (Chapter 19).
(4) Any person convicted of an offence under this section
shall—
(a) where the offence involves the wilful killing of a
person protected by any of the  aforesaid
Conventions, be punished with death; and

<!-- page 4 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 3
(b) for any other offence, be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which
shall not exceed twenty years.
3. Subject to the provisions of section 6, every
prosecution for an offence in terms of section 2 shall be by
way of direct indictment filed by the Attorney-General.
4. (1) Every offence under this Act shall be triable by
the High Court established under Article 154
P of the
Constitution for the Western Province, holden in Colombo.
(2) Every offence under this Act shall be a congnizable
offence and a non-bailable offence within the meaning and
for the purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.
15 of 1979.
(3) A person referred to in Article 5 of the Third Convention
may apply to the High Court for a declaration  that he has the
status of a protected prisoner or war.
(4) The High Court may, where it is satisfied that the
presence of the public or any other person specified by Court,
as the case may be, would be contrary to the interests of
justice or would not be in the public interest, order the
exclusion from any sitting of the Court, the public or any
person specified by the Court.
5. Where in the course of any proceedings under this
Act in respect of a grave breach of any of the Conventions a
question arises under section 2 of this Act relating to the
circumstances in which that Convention applies in relation
to the aforesaid breach, a Certificate under the hand of the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Foreign Affairs stating that a Convention applies
in relation to a particular situation, shall be admissible in
evidence and shall be prima facie evidence of such fact.
Attorney-General
to file indictment.
High Court to
have jurisdiction
to try offences.
Proof of
application of
Convention.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
6. The provisions of the Army Act (Chapter 357), the
Navy Act (Chapter 358) and the Air Force Act (Chapter 359),
relating to the trial by a Court Martial in terms of the
provisions of the aforesaid Acts of persons who commit civil
offences, shall, for the purposes of jurisdiction of courts
martial convened in Sri Lanka under any of the aforesaid
Acts, continue to apply in the same manner as provided for in
the respective Acts, as if the provisions of this Act had not
been enacted.
PART II
L
EGAL  PROCEEDINGS  IN RESPECT  OF  PROTECTED  PERSONS
7. (1) The Court before which —
(a) a protected prisoner of war is brought up for trial for
any offence under this Act; or
(b) a protected internee is brought up for trial for an
offence under this Act, for which that Court has the
power to sentence him for a term of imprisonment
extending to two years or more,
shall not proceed with the trial until it is proved to the
satisfaction of the Court that a Notice stating the matters set
out in subsection (2) in so far as they are known to the
prosecutor, had been served three weeks previously on the
protecting power, if any, and if the accused is a protected
prisoner of war on the accused and the prisoners’
representative.
(2) The following matters shall be included in the Notice
referred to in subsection (1)—
(a) the full name, date of birth and description of the
accused, including his profession or trade;
(b) where the accused is a protected prisoner of war, his
rank and his army, regimental, personal and serial
number ;
Status of Court
Martial
proceedings in
relation to this Act.
Service of notice
of trial of
protected persons
on protecting
power &c,.

<!-- page 6 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 5
(c) the accused’s place of detention, internment or
residence;
(d) the offence with which the accused is charged; and
(e) the Court before which the trial is to take place and
the date and the time fixed for the trial.
(3) For the purposes of this section a document
purporting —
(a) to be signed on behalf of the protecting power or by
the prisoners’ representative or by the person
accused as the case may be; and
(b) to be an acknowledgement of the receipt by that
power, representative or person on a specified day,
of a Notice described in the document as a Notice
given in terms of the provisions of this section,
shall, unless the contrary is shown, be sufficient evidence
that the notice required by subsection (1) was served on that
power, representative or person on that day.
(4) For the purposes of this section “prisoners’
representative” in relation to a particular protected prisoner
of war at a particular time means the person by whom the
function of the prisoners’ representative within the meaning
of Article 79 of the Third Convention were exercisable in
relation of that prisoner at the camp or place at which that
prisoner of war was detained at, or last detained before that
time,  as a protected prisoner of war.
(5) A Court which adjourns a trial for the purposes of
enabling the requirements of this section to be complied
with, may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, remand the accused for the period of the
adjournment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
8. (1) The High Court before which —
(a) any person is brought for trial for an offence under
section 2 of this Act; or
(b) a protected prisoner of war is brought up for trial for
any offence,
shall not proceed with the trial unless—
(i) the accused is represented by Counsel;
(ii) it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that a
period of twenty- one days has elapsed since
instructions for the representation of the accused at
the trial were first given to the Counsel,
and if the Court adjourns the trial for the purpose of enabling
the requirements of this subsection to be complied with, then,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written
law, the Court may authorize the detention of the accused in
such custody as it may think fit for the period of the
adjournment.
(2) Where the accused is a protected prisoner of war, in the
absence of a Counsel accepted by the accused as representing
him, Counsel instructed for the purpose on behalf of the
protecting power, shall, without prejudice to the requirements
of paragraph (ii) of subsection (1) be regarded for the purposes
of that subsection as representing the accused.
(3) If the Court adjourns the trial in pursuance of the
provisions of subsection (1) on the ground that the accused
is not represented by Counsel, the Court shall direct that a
Counsel be assigned to watch over the interests of the accused
at future proceedings in connection with the offence. In future
proceedings, in the absence of Counsel either accepted by
the accused as representing him, or instructed as specified in
subsection (2), Counsel assigned in terms of the provisions
Legal
representation for
prisoners’ of war.

<!-- page 8 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 7
of this subsection shall without prejudice to the requirements
of the provisions of paragraph (ii) of subsection (1), be
regarded for the purposes of such subsection as representing
the accused.
(4) The manner of assigning a Counsel in pursuance of
the provisions of subsection (3) and the fees to be paid to
such a Counsel shall be as prescribed.
9. (1) Where a protected prisoner of war or a protected
internee has been sentenced to imprisonment for a period
exceeding two years, the time within which notice of appeal
must be given shall, notwithstanding anything in any other
law, be deemed to commence on the day on which he receives
notice given,—
 (a) in the case of a prisoner of war of a Commonwealth
country, by an officer of the armed forces of his
country ; and
(b) in the case of an internee, by or on behalf of the
Superintendent of the Prison in which he is confined,
to the effect that the protecting power has been
notified of his conviction and sentence and for such
further time as would have been the time allowed if
the conviction or sentence had taken place or been
pronounced on that day.
(2) Where after an appeal against the conviction or
sentence by a Court of a protected prisoner of war or a
protected internee has been determined, the sentence remains
unchanged or has become a sentence of imprisonment for a
term exceeding two years, any time allowed in relation to a
further appeal in respect of the conviction or sentence as
confirmed or varied upon the previous appeal shall be deemed
to continue to run until the day on which the convicted person
receives a notice given by a person referred to in subsection
(1), as the case may require, that the protecting power has
been notified of the decision of the Court upon the previous
appeal, and for such further time as would have been within
the time allowed if that decision had been pronounced on
that day.
Appeals by
protected persons.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
(3) Upon the application of the provisions of subsection
(1) in relation to a convicted person, then, unless the Court
otherwise orders, the order of Court relating to the restitution
of property or the payment of compensation to an aggrieved
person shall not take effect, and any provision of  law relating
to the re-vesting of property on conviction shall not take
effect in relation to the conviction, while an appeal by the
convicted person against his conviction or sentence is
possible without the extension of time other than the
extension provided by subsection (2).
(4) The provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall not
apply in  relation to an appeal against a conviction or sentence,
or against the decision of a Court upon a previous appeal, if
at the time of the conviction or sentence or of the decision of
the court upon the previous appeal, as the case may be, there
is no protecting power.
10. (1) Where a protected prisoner of war or a protected
internee is convicted of an offence, the Court shall —
(a) in the case of a sentence of death, on a consideration
of all the facts of the case, consider whether such
sentence can be commuted to one of life;
(b) in fixing a term of imprisonment in respect of the
offence, deduct from the term it would otherwise
have fixed, any period during which the convicted
person had been in custody in connection with the
offence before the trial ; and
(c) in fixing the penalty other than imprisonment in
respect of the offence, take that period of custody
into account.
(2) Where the Attorney-General is satisfied that a protected
prisoner of war accused of an offence has been in custody in
connection with that offence, while awaiting trial, in a place
other than a camp or place in which the protected prisoners
Reduction of
sentence and
custody of
protected prisoners
of war and
internees.

<!-- page 10 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 9
of war are detained, for an aggregate period of not less than
three months, the High Court may, on a request of the
Attorney-General, direct that the prisoner shall be transferred
from that custody to the custody of the armed forces and
thereafter remain in such custody at a camp or place in which
protected prisoners of war are detained, and be brought before
the Court at the date and time appointed for his trial.
PART III
A BUSE  OF  THE  RED  CROSS  AND  OTHER  EMBLEMS
11. (1) No person, unless authorized in writing by the
Minister or by any person authorized in that behalf by the
Minister, shall use or display or cause to be used or displayed
for any purpose whatsoever in Sri Lanka or outside, or on
board any ship or aircraft registered in Sri Lanka—
(a) the emblem of the red cross with vertical and
horizontal arms of the same length on, and
completely surrounded by, a white background, or
the designation “Red Cross” ;
(b) the emblem of the red crescent moon on and
completely surrounded by, a white background, or
the designation  “Red Crescent” ;
(c) the emblem of a red lion passing from right to left,
completely surrounded by a white background, with
its face turned towards the observer, holding erect
in its raised right forepaw a scimita, with the upper
half of the sun shooting forth rays appearing above
the lions back, or the designation “Red Lion and
Sun” ;
(d) the emblem of a white or silver cross with vertical
and horizontal arms of the same length, and
completely surrounded, by a red background being
the heraldic emblem of the Swiss Confederation ;
and
Prohibition on use
of the emblem.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
(e) a design or wording so nearly resembling any of the
emblems or designations specified in paragraphs
(a) to (d) above, so as to be capable of being mistaken
for, or being understood as referring to, any one of
those emblems or designations.
(2) If at any time subsequent to the coming into operation
of this Act, any additional distinctive emblem is adopted by
the High Contracting Parties to the Geneva Conventions, the
Minister may by Order published in the Gazette declare any
emblem as is so adopted, to be an emblem for the purposes of
subsection (1) of this section, and for the use or display of
which written authorisation of the Minister would be required
in terms of this section.
(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1) of this section shall be guilty of an offence
and shall on conviction after summary trial be liable to-
(a) in the case of a first offence, to a fine not exceeding
five thousand rupees ;
(b) in the case of a second offence, to a fine not
exceeding twenty thousand rupees ;
(c) in the case of a third offence, to a fine not exceeding
thirty-five thousand rupees ; and
(d) in the case of a subsequent offence to a fine of rupees
fifty thousand and rigorous imprisonment for a term
not exceeding three months.
(4) The Minister may make regulations specifying the
instructions and guidelines on the use of the emblem and
design and to make appropriate provisions regulating the
use for the purposes of any of the Conventions set out in
Schedule I, Schedule II, Schedule III and Schedule IV or of
any emblem and design  and any conditions or limitations,
to which, any authorization granted in terms of this section
shall be subject to.

<!-- page 12 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 11
(5) The prohibition contained in subsection (1) shall not
apply to a trade mark registered under the law applicable
prior to the date of the coming into operation of this Act : and
where a person is charged with contravening the provisions
of subsection (1) it shall be a defence to such person to prove,-
(a) that he was lawfully using such emblem or design
from a date prior to the coming into operation of
this Act ;
(b) that such emblem, sign, designation or signal used
in connection with such goods, had been applied to
such goods before such person acquired them by
some other person who had manufactured or dealt
with the goods in the course of trade and had been
lawfully using the same  prior to the coming into
operation of this Act.
(6) Where an offence against this section is committed
by a body of persons, then every director, manager, secretary
or other officer of such body shall be guilty of an offence
unless he is able to prove that the act or omission constituting
the offence was committed without his knowledge or consent
and that he took all necessary steps to prevent the commission
of such offence.
PART IV
G
ENERAL
12. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are authorised or required to be made.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister under
subsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shall
come into operation on the date of such publication.
Regulations.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister under
subsection (1) shall as soon as is convenient after its
publication in the Gazette be placed before Parliament for its
approval. Any regulation not so approved shall be deemed to
be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval.
(4) Notification of the date of which any regulation is so
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
13.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
14. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—
“Conventions” mean the First Convention, the Second
Convention, the Third Convention and the Fourth
Convention, the relevant Articles of which are set
out in the Schedule I, Schedule II, Schedule III and
Schedule IV to this Act ;
“Court” shall include any Court Martial within the
meaning of the Army Act (Chapter 357), the Navy
Act (Chapter 358) or the Air Force Act (Chapter
359) respectively ;
“protected internee” means a person protected by the
Fourth Convention and interned in Sri Lanka ;
“protecting power” in relation to a protected internee
or a prisoner of war, means the power or
organization which is carrying out in the interests
of the power of which he is a national or of whose
armed forces he is or was at any material time a
member, the duties assigned to protecting powers
under the Third Convention or as may be necessary
the Fourth Convention ;
“protected prisoner of war” means a person protected
by the Third Convention.
Interpretation.
Sinhala text to
prevail in the case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 14 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 13
                                     SCHEDULE I          (Sections 2, 11 and 13)
G ENEV A  CONVENTION  FOR  THE  AMELIORATION  OF  THE  CONDITION  OF  THE  WOUNDED
AND  SICK  IN ARMED  FORCES  IN THE  FIELD , OF  AUGUST  12, 1949
Relevant Provisions
CHAPTER IX
R EPRESSION  OF  ABUSES  AND  INFRACTIONS
A RTICLE  49
The High Contracting Parties undertake to enact any legislation
necessary to provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing,
or ordering the commission of any of the grave breaches of the present
Convention defined in the following Article.
Each High Contracting Party shall be under the obligation to search
for persons alleged to have committed, or to have ordered the
commission of such grave breaches, and shall bring such persons,
regardless of their nationality, before its own courts. It may also, if it
prefers, and in accordance with the provisions of its own legislation,
hand such persons over for trial to another High Contracting Party
concerned, provided such High Contracting Party has made out a
prima facie case.
Each High Contracting Party shall take measures necessary for the
suppression of all acts contrary to the provisions of the present
Convention other than the grave breaches defined in the following
Article.
In all circumstances, the accused persons shall benefit by safeguards
of proper trial and defence, which shall not be less favourable than
those provided by Article 105 and those following of the Geneva
Convention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War of August 12,
1949.
A RTICLE  50
Grave breaches to which the preceding Article relates shall be those
involving any of the following acts, if committed against persons or
property protected by the Convention ; wilful killing, torture or inhuman
treatment, including biological experiments, wilfully causing great
suffering or serious injury to body or health, and extensive destruction
and appropriation of property, not justified by military necessity and
carried out unlawfully and wantonly.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
A RTICLE  51
No High Contracting Party shall be allowed to absolve itself or any
other High Contracting Party of any liability incurred by itself or by
another High Contracting Party in respect of breaches referred to in the
preceding Article.
A
RTICLE  52
At the request of a Party to the conflict, an enquiry shall be instituted,
in a manner to be decided between the interested Parties, concerning
any alleged violation of the Convention.
If  agreement has not been reached concerning the procedure for
the enquiry, the Parties should agree on the choice of an umpire who
will decide upon the procedure to be followed.
Once the violation has been established, the Parties to the conflict
shall put an end to it and shall repress it with the least possible delay.
A
RTICLE  53
The use by individuals, societies, firms or companies either public
or private, other than those entitled thereto under the present Convention,
of the emblem or the designation “Red Cross” or “Geneva Cross”, or
any sign or designation constituting an imitation thereof, whatever the
object of such use, and irrespective of the date of its adoption, shall be
prohibited at all times.
By reason of the tribute paid to Switzerland by the adoption of the
reversed Federal colours, and of the confusion which may arise between
the arms of Switzerland and the distinctive emblem of the Convention,
the use by private individuals, societies or firms, of the arms of the
Swiss Confederation, or of marks constituting an imitation thereof,
whether as trade-marks or commercial marks, or as parts of such marks,
or for a purpose contrary to commercial honesty, or in circumstances
capable of wounding Swiss national sentiment, shall be prohibited at all
times.
Nevertheless, such High Contracting Parties as were not party to the
Geneva Convention of July 27, 1929, may grant to prior users of the
emblems, designations, signs or marks designated in the first paragraph,
a time limit not to exceed three years from the coming into force of the
present Convention to discontinue such use, provided that the said use
shall not be such as would appear, in time of war, to confer the protection
of the Convention.

<!-- page 16 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 15
The prohibition laid down in the first paragraph of the present
Article shall also apply, without effect on any rights acquired through
prior use, to the emblems and marks mentioned in the second paragraph
of Article 38.
A
RTICLE  54
The High Contracting Parties shall, if their legislation is not already
adequate, take measures necessary for the prevention and repression, at
all times, of the abuses referred to under Article 53.
               SCHEDULE II          (Sections 2, 11and 13)
G ENEVA  CONVENTION  FOR  THE  AMELIORATION  OF  THE  CONDITION  OF  THE  WOUNDED ,
SICK  AND  SHIPWRECKED  MEMBERS  OF  ARMED  FORCES  AT  SEA  OF  AUGUST  12, 1949
Relevant Provisions
CHAPTER VIII
Repression of Abuses and Infractions
A RT A RTICLE  50ICLE  50
The High Contracting Parties undertake to enact any legislation
necessary to provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing,
or ordering the commission of,  any of the grave breaches of the
present Convention defined in the following Article.
Each High Contracting Party shall be under the obligation to search
for persons alleged to have committed, or to have ordered to be
committed, such grave breaches, and shall bring such persons, regardless
of their nationality, before its own courts. It may also, if it prefers, and
in accordance with the provisions of its own legislation, hand such
persons over for trial to another High Contracting Party concerned,
provided such High Contracting Party has made out a prima facie case.
Each High Contracting Party shall take measures necessary for the
suppression of all acts contrary to the provisions of the present
Convention other than the grave breaches defined in the following
Article.
In all circumstances, the accused persons shall benefit by safeguards
of proper trial and defence, which shall not be less favorable than those
provided by Article 105 and those following  the Geneva Convention
relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War of August 12, 1949.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
A RTICLE  51
Grave breaches to which the preceding Article relates shall be those
involving any of the following acts, if committed against persons or
property protected by the Convention ; wilful killing, torture or inhuman
treatment, including biological experiments, wilfully causing great
suffering or serious injury to body or health, and extensive destruction
and appropriation of property, not justified by military necessity and
carried out unlawfully and wantonly.
SCHEDULE III (Sections 2, 11 and 13)
G
ENEV A  CONVENTION  RELATIVE  TO  THE  TREATMENT  OF  PRISONERS  OF  WAR  OF
A UGUST  12, 1949
Relevant Provisions
PART VI
EXECUTION  OF  THE  CONVENTION
SECTION I
G ENERAL  PROVISIONS
A RTICLE  126
Representatives or delegates of the Protecting Powers shall have
permission to go to all places where prisoners of war may be, particularly
to places of internment, imprisonment and labour, and shall have access
to all premises occupied by prisoners of war ; they shall also be allowed
to go to the places of departure, passage and arrival of prisoners who
are being transferred. They shall be able to interview the prisoners, and
in particular the prisoners representatives, without witnesses, either
personally or through an interpreter.
Representatives and delegates of the Protecting Powers shall have
full liberty to select the places they wish to visit. The duration and
frequency of these visits shall not be restricted. Visits may not be
prohibited except for reasons of imperative military necessity, and then
only as an exceptional and temporary measure.
The Detaining Power and the Power on which the said prisoners of
war depend may agree, if necessary, that compatriots of these prisoners
of war be permitted to participate in the visits.
The delegates of the International Committee of the Red Cross shall
enjoy the same prerogatives. The appointment of such delegates shall
be submitted to the approval of the Power detaining the prisoners of
war to be visited.

<!-- page 18 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 17
A RTICLE  127
The High Contracting Parties undertake, in time of peace as in time
of war, to disseminate the text of the present Convention as widely as
possible in their respective countries, and in particular, to include the
study thereof in their programmes of military and, if possible, civil
instruction, so that the principles thereof may become known to all
their armed forces and to the entire population.
Any military or other authorities, who in time of war assume
responsibilities in respect of prisoners of war, must possess the text of
the Convention and be specially instructed as to its provisions.
A
RTICLE  128
The High Contracting Parties shall communicate to one another
through the Swiss Federal Council and, during hostilities, through the
Protecting Powers, the official translations of the present Convention,
as well as the laws and regulations which they may adopt to ensure the
application thereof.
A
RTICLE  129
The High Contracting Parties undertake to enact any legislation
necessary to provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing,
or ordering the commission of, any of the grave breaches of the present
Convention defined in the following Article.
Each High Contracting Party shall be under the obligation to search
for persons alleged to have committed, or to have ordered the
commission of, such grave breaches, and shall bring such persons,
regardless of their nationality, before its own courts. It may also, if it
prefers, and in accordance with the provisions of its own legislation,
hand such persons over for trial to another High Contracting Party
concerned, provided such High Contracting Party has made out a
prima facie case.
Each High Contracting Party shall take measures necessary for the
suppression of all acts contrary to the provisions of the present
Convention other than the grave breaches defined in the following
Article.
In all circumstances, the accused persons shall benefit by safeguards
of proper trial and defence, which shall not be less favourable than
those provided by Article 105 and those following of the present
Convention.
A
RTICLE  130
Grave breaches to which the preceding Article relates shall be those
involving any of the following acts, if committed against persons or
property protected by the Convention : wilful killing, torture or inhuman
treatment, including biological experiments, wilfully causing great

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
suffering or serious injury to body or health, compelling a prisoner of
war to serve in the forces of the hostile Power, or wilfully depriving a
prisoner of war of the rights of fair and regular trial prescribed in this
Convention.
A
RTICLE  131
No High Contracting Party shall be allowed to absolve itself or any
other High Contracting Party of any liability incurred by itself or by
another High Contracting Party in respect of breaches referred to in the
preceding Article.
SCHEDULE IV (Sections 2, 11 and 13)
G ENEV A  CONVENTION  RELATIVE  TO  THE  PROTECTION  OF  CIVILIAN PERSONS  IN TIME  OF
W AR  OF  AUGUST  12, 1949
Relevant Provisions
PART IV
EXECUTION  OF  THE  CONVENTION
SECTION I
G ENERAL  PROVISIONS
A RTICLE  142
Subject to the measures which the Detaining Powers may consider
essential to ensure their security or to meet any other reasonable need,
the representatives of religious organizations, relief societies, or any
other organizations assisting the protected persons, shall receive from
these Powers, for themselves or their duly accredited agents, all facilities
for visiting the protected persons, for distributing relief supplies and
material from any source, intended for educational, recreational or
religious purposes, or for assisting them in organizing their leisure time
within the places of internment. Such societies or organizations may be
constituted in the territory of the Detaining Power, or in any other
country, or they may have an international character.
The Detaining Power may limit the number of societies and
organizations whose delegates are allowed to carry out their activities
in its territory and under its supervision, on condition, however, that
such limitation shall not hinder the supply of effective and adequate
relief to all protected persons.
The special position of the International Committee of the Red
Cross in this field shall be recognized and respected at all times.

<!-- page 20 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 19
A RTICLE  143
Representatives or delegates of the Protecting Power shall have
permission to go to all places where protected persons are, particularly
to places of internment, detention and work.
They shall have access to all premises occupied by protected persons
and shall be able to interview the latter without witnesses, personally or
through an interpreter.
Such visits may not be prohibited except for reasons of imperative
military necessity, and then only as an exceptional and temporary
measure. Their duration and frequency shall not be restricted.
Such representatives and delegates shall have full liberty to select
the places they wish to visit. The Detaining or Occupying Power, the
Protecting Power and when occasion arises the Power of origin of the
persons to be visited, may agree that compatriots of the internees shall
be permitted to participate in the visits.
The delegates of the International Committee of the Red Cross shall
also enjoy the above prerogatives. The appointment of such delegates
shall be submitted to the approval of the Power governing the territories
where they will carry out their duties.
A
RTICLE  144
The High Contracting Parties undertake, in time of peace as in time
of war, to disseminate the text of the present Convention as widely as
possible in their respective countries, and in particular, to include the
study thereof in their programmes of military and, if possible, civil
instruction, so that the principles thereof may become known  to the
entire population.
Any Civilian military, police or other authorities, who in time of
war assume responsibilities in respect of protected persons, must possess
the text of the Convention and be specially instructed as to its provisions.
A
RTICLE  145
The High Contracting Parties shall communicate to one another
through the Swiss Federa l Council and, during hostilities, through the
Protecting Powers, the official translations of the present Convention,
as well as the laws and regulations which they may adopt to ensure the
application thereof.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
A RTICLE 146
The high Contracting Parties undertake to enact any legislation
necessary to provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing,
or ordering the commission of,  any of the grave breaches of the
present Convention defined in the following Article.
Each High Contracting Party shall be under the obligation to search
for persons alleged to have committed, or to have ordered the
commission of, such grave breaches, and shall bring such persons,
regardless of their nationality, before its own courts. It may also, if it
prefers, and in accordance with the provisions of its own legislation,
hand such persons over for trial to another High Contracting Party
concerned, provided such High Contracting Party has made out a
prima facie case.
Each High Contracting Party shall take measures necessary for the
suppression of all acts contrary to the provisions of the present
Convention other than the grave breachers defined in the following
Article.
In all circumstances, the accused persons shall benefit by safeguards
of proper trial and defence, which shall not be less favourable than
those provided by Article 105 and those following of the Geneva
Convention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, of August 12,
1949.
A
RTICLE  147
Grave breaches to which the preceding Article relates shall be those
involving any of the following acts, if committed against persons or
property protected by the present Convention : wilful killing, torture or
inhuman treatment, including biological experiments, wilfully causing
great suffering or serious injury to body or health, unlawful deportation
or transfer or unlawful confinement of a protected person, compelling
a protected person to serve in the forces of a hostile Power, or wilfully
depriving a protected person of the rights of fair and regular trial
prescribed in the present Convention, taking of hostages and extensive
destruction and appropriation of property, not justified by military
necessity and carried out unlawfully and wantonly.
A
RTICLE  149
No High contracting Party shall be allowed to absolve itself or any
other High contracting party of any liability incurred by itself or by
another High Contracting Party.

<!-- page 22 -->

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006 21
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.