

<!-- page 1 -->

PART 1: SECTION (1) - GENERAL
L.D.B. 21/78(XVI)
THE   UNIVERSITIES   ACT,   No.   16   OF   1978
ORDINANCE  made by the  University Grants Commission under section 18 read with section 24 A of the Universities Act,
No. 16 of 1978.
                                                                                                                   Secretary,
University Grants Commission.
Colombo,
06th December,  2017.
ORDINANCE
01. This Ordinance may be cited as the Postgraduate Institute of Indigenous Medicine Ordinance No. 05 of 2017 and shall
come into operation with effect from 06th December 2017.
02. This Ordinance shall apply to the Postgraduate Insitute of Indigenous Medicine (hereinafter referred to as the "Insitute"
established by Order made by the Minister under section 24A (1) of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Act") and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2031/38 of 2017.
03. The Institute shall be attached to the University of Colombo, Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the "University").
04. Subject to the provisions of the Act, and of any appropriate Instrument  and the powers, duties and functions of the
University Grants Commission (hereinafter referred to as the "Commission"), the Institute shall have power to :-
wxl 2048$46 - 2017 foieïn¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'12'08
No. 2048/ 46 – FRIDA Y, DECEMBER 08, 2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
Government Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
1A - PG 3808 - 107(12/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'082  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
(a) admit students;
(b) provide for postgraduate instructios,  training  and  research  in  specialities of   Ayurveda,  Siddha and
Unani systems of Medicine  as  may be  approved by  the Commission upon  the recommendation of the
Institute and the University.
(c) determine with the approval of  the University and the concurrence of the Commission, the postgraduate
degrees, postgraduate diplomas, postgraduate certificates and other academic distinctions to be awar ded
in the serveral specialities of Ayurved, Siddha and Unani systems of Medicine or  relevant specialities;
(d) conduct with the approval of  the University, postgraduate examinations for the purpose of ascertain ing
the persons who have acquired proficiency in the several specialities of  Ayurveda,  Siddha and  Unanai
systems of Medicine or relevant specialities, and to recommend to the  University of persons  who  have
passed the examinations   and satisfied such other conditions as  the University may prescribe by By-laws
in consultation with the Institute, are eligible for the award of postgraduate degrees, postgraduate diplomas,
postgraduate certificates and other academic distinctions of the University;
(e) co-operate, by way  of  exchnge  of teachers,  students and  scholars or  otherwise  with  Universit ies or
Institutions in Sri Lanka or aboard, having objects similar or substantially similar to those of the Institute;
(f) recognize examinations passed and the period of learning or study pursued by persons seeking admission
to, or by  students of the Institute at Universities and  places  of  learning  of university   leve l,  as being
equivalent to such examinations and periods of learning or study in the Institute, or such part ther eof, as
may be prescribed by By-law, and to withdraw such recognition at any time;
(g) recommend  to  the   University   the creation, abolition  or  suspension  of    Professorships,    Associate
Professorships, Senior Lectureships, Lecturerships and other posts as may be required for the purposes of
the Institute;
(h) erect, equip, and maintain, for the porpose of the Institute, libraries, laboratories and other buildings
whether for instructional, training or research purposes;
(i) award fellowships, scholarships, medals and other prizes in consultation  with the University;
(j) make arrangements for conducting research and courses or parts of courses in places outside the University
and the Institute in accordance with any By-law providing for the same;
(k) recognize  with the concurrence of the University such persons as may be approved by the Institute, as
trainers and examiners of the Institute;
(l) demand and receive fees in accordance with any Rule providing for the same; and
(m) do all such other acts and things, whether  incidental  to  or  consequent  upon  the powers,  dutie s  and
functions aforesaid,  in  order to further the objects of the Institute;
05. The Officers of the Institute shall be the following:-
(a) the Director; and
(b) the holder of any  other post declared by the Ordinance to be a post, the holder of which, is an officer for
the purpose of this paragraph.
06. (1)The first Director shall be appointed by the Commission.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'08 3 A
PART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
(2)Every subsequent Director shall be appointed by the Commission from a panel of three persons recommended by
the  Board of Management of the Institute (hereinafter referred to as the "Board"). Where  a member  of the  staff of
a higher  educational  institution or   a  higher  educational  institute  is  appointed as  Director,  such  institution or
institute shall release such member of the staff so appointed to accept the post of Director:
Provided however, that no persons shall be appointed as Director of the Institute for more than two consecutive
terms.
(3)A Director shall, unless he vacates the  office earlier or is removed from the office under sub paragraph (4), hold  the
office for a period of three years reckoned from the date of his appointment or  until  he completes  his age  of  retirement,
whichever event; occurs earlier.
(4)A Director  shall be removed from the office by the Chairman of the Commission on a vote of censure pased by not
les than two-thirds of the total membership of the Board, at a special meeting convened for the purpose. The members
present at such special meeting shall elect from among themselves a person, other than the Director, to preside at
such special  meeing.
(5)A Director who resigns or  is removed from the office or completes his tenure may, if he was a member of the staff of
a higher educational institution or of a higher educational institute immediately prior to his appointment as Director,
revert to his substantive post in such higher educational institution or higher educational institute,Provided that he
has not reached the age of retirement.
(6)Where the Director, by reason of leave illness, absence from Sri Lanka, or  other  cause  is  temporarily  unable  to
perform the duties of his office, the Commission shall, within  seven days of  the occurrence of  such  inability  make
such arrangements as it may think fit for carrying on the duties of the office of the Director.  Until such arrangements
are made the Registrar of the University shall carry on the routine duties of the office.
(7)Where a vacancy occurs in the office of  the Director, the Commission shall, within seven days of the occurrence of
such vacancy, make such arrangements as it may think suitable for carrying on the duties of the office of the Director
until a permanent appointment is made. Until such arrangements are made the Registrar of the University shall carry
on the routine duties of the office.
07. (1)The Director shall be the principal executive officer and the principal academic officer of the Institue. He shall be an
ex-officio member of the Board and an ex-officio member of each Board of Study. He shall be entitled to convene, be
present and speak at any meeting of any other Authority or body of the Institute but shall not be entitled to vote  at
any such meeing unless he is a member of such other Authority or body.
(2)It shall be the duty of the Director,  in accordance with such directions as may from time to time be lawfully issued
to him in that behalf by the Board and each Board of Study, to ensure that the provisions of the Ordinance, the  Act
or any other appropriate instrument in so far as they relate to the Institute , are duly observed and effect  is given to
the decisions of the Board and each Board  of Study, and exercise all such prowers as he may deem necessary for the
purpose.
(3)It shall be the duty  of the Director to give effect, or  to ensure that effect is given  to the decisions of the Board and
each Board of Study.
(4)The Director shall be the Accounting Officer of the Institute.
(5)The Director shall be responsible for the maintenance of discipline within the Institute.
08. The authorities of the Institute shall comprise of the following:-
(a) the Board;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'084  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
(b) the Boards of Study;
(c) Speciality Boards; and
(d) such  other bodies as may be prescribed by the Ordinance to be such authorities.
09. The Board shall be the  academic and executive body of the Institute, and shall consist of the following persons:-
(1)The following ex-officio members namely:-
(a) the Director;
(b) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Higher Education or his nomine e;
(c) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject  of Indigenous Medecine or his nominee;
(d) the Secretary to the Ministry  of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance or his nominee;
(e) the Commissioner of Ayurveda;
(f) the Immediate Past Director of the Institute;
(g) the Directors of the Institute of Indigenous Medicine, Colombo established under the Act and Gampaha
Wickramarachchi Ayurveda Institute recognised under the Act;
(h) the heads of Siddha Units, University of Jaffna and Estern University established under the Act;
(i) the Director of the Bandaranaike Memorial Ayurveda Research Institute.
(2)the following other members, namely:-
(a) One  member each from  among  specialist  grade  doctors  of  Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani systems of
Medicine from the Department of Ayurveda elected by the Commissioner of Ayurveda.
(b) Four members  appointed by the commission from among persons who have distinguished themselves in
the fields of law, administration and finance.
(c) Two members nominated by the University Council from among the appointed members of such Council.
10. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall be the Director who shall preside at all meetings of the Board. If the Chairman
is unable to preside at a meeting the members shall select any member present to preside at such meeting.
(2) Any elected or appointed member shall, unless he vacates  the office earlier, hold the office for a term of three
years reckoned from the date of his election or appointment, as the case may be,and shall, unless removed from the office, be
eligible for re - election or re - appoinment :
Provided however, that if any elected or appointed  member vacates his office prior to the expiry of  his term, his
successor shall, unless he vacates his office earlier, hold the office for the unexpired portion of the term of the office of his
predecessor:
Provided further, that each elected members shall hold the office so long as he retains the status or membership
by virtue of which he was eligible for election as a member of the Board.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'08 5 A
PART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
(3) Any elected, member of the Board may resign from his office by writing under his hand addressed to t he
Director.
(4) Any appointed member of the Board may resign from his office by writing under his hand addressed to the
Chairman of the Commission.
(5) Any elected or appointed member of  the Board, who without leave of absence fails to attend three consecutive
meetings of the Board, shall be deemed to have vacated his office as a member of the Board, and the Commission shall
appoint a suitable person to fill such vacancy.
(6) The members of the Board shall be paid such remuneration or allowances as the Minister shall in consultation
with the Minister assigned the subject of Finance, determine.
(7) The quorum of any meeting of the Board shall be one-third of its total membership.
(8) The Board shall meet whenever necessary, so however that it meets on not less than eight occasions i n each
year.
(9) The Director shall whenever he thinks necessary or within one week upon the receipt by him of a written request
from not less than one - third of the total membership of the Board,convence a special meeting of the Board.
11. (1) Subjects to the provisions of the Act and of any appropriate instrument, the Board shall exercise the powers and
perform and discharge the duties and functions conferred or imposed on,or assigned to, the  Institut e by this Ordinance.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the  Act and of any appropriate instrument, the Board shall have control and general
direction of instructon, education, research and examinations in the Institute.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred upon it by sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) th e Board
shall exercise, perform and discharge the following powers, duties and functions :-
(a) to hold, control and administer the property and funds of  the Institute ;
(b) to regulate and determine all matters concerning the Institute in accordance with the provisions of the
Act and of any appropriate instrument ;
(c) to administer any funds made available to the Institute for its general administration and managemen t
and any other specific purposes;
(d) to receive and accept with the concurrence of the Commission, bequests, donations and grants of
property both movable or immovable made to the Institute ;
(e) to evaluate the annual report and the audited accounts of the Institute and to submit such report an d
such accounts to the University and the Commission;
(f) to prepare the financial estimates of the Institute and to submit such estimates to the University and the
Commission;
(g) to recommend to the University, in consultation with the relevant Board of Study, the postgraduate
degrees, postgraduate diplomas, postgraduate certificates and other academic distinctions which shal l
be awarded in the specialities of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani systems of Medicine, and the courses of
study and training to be followed, the examinations to be passed and  the other conditions to be satisfied
by students who wish to qualify for such postgraduate degrees, postgraduate diplomas, postgraduate
certificates and other academic distinctions ;

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'086  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
(h) to recommend to the University, in consultation with the Board of Study concerned, the procedure in
obtaining Board certifications in respect of a  candidate's specialisation;
(i) to draft  By - laws or rules for any matter in respect of which By-laws or rules are authorised to be made
and to submit such drafts to the Senate and the Council of the University for enactment:
Provided however, that no By-laws relating to courses of study and  examinations shall be drafted
except after consideration of reports from the Board of Study concerned;
(j) to provide buildings, premises, furniture, equipment and other materials needed for carrying on the work
of the Institute;
(k) to recommend to the Senate of the University in consultation with the relevant Board of Study, such
persons as are suitable for recognition as trainers and examiners of the Institute;
(l) to recommend to the Commission, after consideration of reports from the relevant Board of Study and
with the approval of the University -
(i) schemes for the re-organization of existing Boards of Study and Speciality Boards, and the estab-
lishment of new Boards of Study and Speciality Boards; and
(ii) the assignments of specialities of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani systems of Medicine to the respec-
tive Boards of Study ;
(m) to appoint such number of Standing Committees or ad hoc Committees as it may deem fit, and to specify
their terms of reference; to consider the reports of such committees and to either approve such repo rts
whether with or without modification, or to reject such reports;
(n) to determine, in consultation with the relevant Board of Study and with the concurrence of the Univer-
sity, the requirements for the admission of students to courses of study;
(o) to invest any moneys belonging to the Institute including any unapplied income, in any Security in
terms of the provisions of section 20 of the Trust Ordinance or any other written law, and to invest such
moneys,with the approval of the Commission in the purchase of immovable property in Sri Lanka or vary
such investments or to place in fixed deposits in any bank approved by the Commission, any portion of
such moneys not required for immediate expenditure; and
(p) to exercise all other powers of  the Institute, which are incidental to or consequential upon the powers of
the Institute as provided for in this Ordinance or any other appropriate instrument.
(4) No resolution shall be passed by the Board in relation to any academic matter unless the appropriate Board of
Study has first been given an opportunity of recording and conveying its opinion thereon to the Boar d:
Provided that, no resolution so passed shall be acted upon except with the concurrence of the Univer sity.
In this paragragh, ''academic matter'' means any matter which is subject to the control and general direction of the
appropriate Board of  Study.
(12) The Board shall establish Boards of Study for each of the following systems of Medicine and Specialty Boards
under the relevant Boards of Study : -
(a) Ayurveda Medicine;
(b) Siddha Medicine; and
(c) Unani Medicine.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'08 7 A
PART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
13. (1) The Board of Study of Ayurveda Medicine shall consist of the following persons :-
(a) the Director who shall be an ex-officio member;
(b) two members from the branch of Ayurveda of the Institute of  Indigenous Medicine, Colombo established
under the Act, elected from among the Senior Professors, Professors,  Associate  Professors,  and  Senior
Lecturers at the meeting chaired by the Director of the Institute;
(c) two members from the Gampaha Wickramarachchi Ayurveda Institute recognised under the Act, elected
from among the Senior Professors,  Professors, Associate Professors, and Senior Lecturers at the meeting
chaired by the Director of the Institute;
(d) Senior Professor,  Professor, Associate Professor, or Senior Lecturer from each Departments of study of :-
(i) Kaya Chikitsa;
(ii) Shalya Shalakya;
(iii) Prasutitantra Kaumarabhrithya;
(iv) Deshiya Chikitsa;
(v) Swastha Vrittha;
(vi) Dravya Guna Vignana;
(vii) Shareera Vignana;
(viii) Maulika Siddhanta,
In the Institute of Indigenous Medicine, Colombo established under the Act and Gampaha Wickramarachc hi
Ayurveda Institute recognised under the Act, nominated by the Director of the relevant Institute in that order on the
recommendation of the relevant Department of Study; and
(e) one Ayurveda specialist grade doctor each from the specialist grade of the following training centre s
nominated by the Commissioner of Ayurveda :-
(i) Ayurveda Teaching Hospital Colombo;
(ii) Ayurveda Teaching Hospital Gampaha;
(iii) Bandaranaike Memorial Ayurveda Research Institute.
(2) The Board of Study of Siddha Medicine shall consist of the following persons :-
(a) the Director who shall be an ex - officio member;
(b) two members from the Unit of Siddha Medicine, University of Jaffna established under the Act, electe d
from among the Senior Professors, Professors, Associate Professors, and Senior Lecturers at the meeting
chaired by the Head of the unit;
(c) two members from the Unit of Siddha Medicine, Trincomalee Campus, Eastern University established
under the Act, elected from among the Senior Professors, Professors, Associate Professors, and Senio r
Lecturers at the meeting chaired by the Head of the unit;
(d) Senior Professor, Professor, Associate Professor, or Senior Lecturer from each Department of :-
(i) Noi Naadal Chiktsai;
(ii) Virana Chikitsai;
(iii) Kuzhanthai Maruthuvam and Mahalir Maruthuram;
(iv) Gunapadam;
(v) Moola Thatthuvam,
In the Unit of Siddha Medicine, Jaffna and Trincomalee established under the Act, nominated by the Head
of the Unit in that order on the recomendation of the relevant Department of Study; and

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'088  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
(e) One Siddha specialist grade doctor each from the specialist grade of the following training centres
 nominated by the Commissioner of Ayurveda :-
(i) Siddha Teaching Hospital, Kaithady, Jaffna;
(ii) Siddha Teaching Hospital, Trincomalee;
(iii) Bandaranaike Memorial Ayurveda Research Institute,
(3) The Board of study of Unani Medicine shall consist of the following persons :-
(a) the Director who shall be an ex-officio member;
(b) two members from the Branch of  Unani Medicine of the Institute of Indigenous Medicine, Colombo
established under the Act, elected from among the Senior Professors, Professors, Associate Professor s,
and Senior Lecturers at the meeting chaired by the Director of the Institute;
(c) a Senior Professor, Professor, Associate Professor, or  Senior Lecturer from each Department of Study of.
(i) Moalijat;
(ii) Ilmul Jarahat;
(iii) Amraz -e-Niswan V a Qabalat V a Atfal;
(iv) Deshiya Ilaj;
(v) Tahaffuzi V a Samaji Tibb;
(vi) Ilmul Adviya;
(vii) Kulliyat,
In the Institute of  Indigenous Medicine, Colombo established under the Act, nominated by the Director of
the Institute  in that order on the recomendation of the relevant Department of Study; and
(d) One Unani specialist grade doctor  each from the specialist grade of the following training centres nomi-
nated by the Commissioner of Ayurveda :-
(i) Ayurveda Teaching Hospital Colombo;
(ii) Bandaranaike Memorial Ayurveda Research Institute.
(4) Appointment of members to the Board of  Study :-
(a) Nominees of an academic department in a Board of Study shall be selected by the respective Directors ,
Heads of undergraduate Institutes or Units in consultation with the academic staff members who satis fy
the requirements stipulated to be a trainer and forwarded to the Director of the Institute.
(b) Nominees from the training centre of the Ministry of Indigenous Medicine shall be selected from among
specialist grade doctors who satisfy requirements stipulated to be a trainer, at a meeting chaired b y the
Director of the Hospital or Head of the centre. Such names shall be forwarded to the Director of the
Institute by the Commissioner of Ayurveda.
(5) Any Board of  Study may, with the concurrence of the Board, co-opt maximum three persons for a period of one
year for a specified purpose. No person so co-opted shall have the right to stand for election or to vote at any meeting of such
Board of Study.
(6) (a) Any member of a Board of Study shall, unless he vacates the office earlier, hold the office for a term of three years
reckoned from the date of this election or appointment and be eligible for re-election or re-appointment :
Provided however, that if any elected or appointed member  vacates his office prior to the expiry of his term, his
successor shall, unless he vacates his office earlier, hold the office for the unexpired portion of the term of the office of his
predecessor;

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'08 9 A
PART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
Provided further, that each elected or appointed member shall hold the office so long as he retains the status or
membership by virtue of which he was eligible for election appointment as a member of the Board of Study, and shall cease
to be a member on resignation, retirement or transfer from the hospital, Institute, University or Department of Study.
(b) Any member of a Board of Study may resign from his office by writing under his hand addressed to the
Director.
(c) Any elected or appointed member of a Board of S tudy, who without leave of absence fails attend three
consecutive meetings of  the Board of Study, shall be deemed to have vacated his office as a member of the Board of Study
and the Director shall take such action to appoint a suitable person to fill such vacancy.
(d) In instances where  the designated number of members cannot be appointed to a Board of Study or a
Speciality Board due to any valid reason, the Board shall have the power to appont qualified persons to fill such vacancies
in consultation with the relevant Board of Study or the Speciality Board.
(e) The Board shall have the power to dissolve a Board of Study or remove a member of a Board of Study on
a vote of censure passed by not less than two - thirds of the total membership of the Board.
(7) (a) Each Board of Study shall have a Chairman who shall be elected by the members of that Board of Study from
among its members.
(b) The terms of the office of the Chairman shall be the term of the office of the Board of Study.
(8) (a) Each Board of Study shall have a Secretary who shall be a member of the Board of Study appointed by the Board
upon the recommendation of the appropriate Board of Study.
(b) The terms of the office of the Secretary shall be the term of the office of the Board of Study.
(9) The quorum of any meeting of any Board of Study constituted under subparagraph (1), (2) and (3) shall be one
third of the membership, excluding the co-opted members, if any.
(10) Each Board of Study shall meet whenever necessary, so however that it meets on not less than ten occ asions
in each year.
14. (1) Subject to the provisions of the Act and of any appropriate instrument, each Board of Study shall have control
and general direction of instruction, education, research and examinations in respect of the specialities of Ayurveda, Siddha
and Unani systems of Medicine concerned.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred upon it by sub-paragraph (1) each Board of Study
shall exercise, perform and discharge the following powers, duties and functions in the specialities of Ayurveda,
Siddha and Unani systems of Medicine concerned:-
(a) consider and report on any matter referred to it by the Board.
(b) present recommendations and a report to the Board on all matters connected with the courses of study
traning programmes or  programmes  and examinations in the  relevant speciality;
(c) recommend the appointment of committees, which may include persons other than members of the Board
of Study for the purpose of considering and reporting on any special  subject or  subjects  related to the
relevant speciality;
(d) recommend to the Board the requirements for the admission of students to courses of  study and examinatios;
(e) draft Regulations relating to courses of study and examinations in the relevant speciality and to su bmit
such drafts to the Board;
(f) recommend to the Board such persons who are suitable for recognition as trainers and examiners;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'0810  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
(g) recommend to the Board such persons who, having passed the prescribed  examinations  in  the  relevant
speciality and having satisfied other prescribed conditions, are eligible  for  the  award  of  postgraduate
degrees, postgraduate diplomas, postgraduate certificates and oher academic distinctions in that
speciality;
(h) recommend to the Board the mode and conditios of competition for fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions,
bursaries, medals and other prizes;
(i) recommend to the Board, the names of persons suitable for the award of fellowships, scholarships,
exhibitions, bursaries medals and other prizes; and
(j) recommend to the Board-
(i) schemes for the reorganization of existing Boards of Study, and the organization of new Boards of
Study; and
(ii) the assignment of specilities of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani systems of medicine to the
respective Boards of Study.
(3) With the approval of the relevant Board of Study, the Board shall establish Speciality Board in respect of
specialities and-
(a) each Speciality Board shall function under the general directions of a relevant Board of Study established
by the Board in respect of specialities of Ayurveda, Siddha, and Unani sytems of Medicine;
(b) where a  Speciality Board has been extablished in respect of a speciality in which instruction, education,
training and evaluation are carried  out under the general  direction  of  a  relevant  Board  of  Study,  such
Speciality Board shall consist of ten members as follows:-
(i) the Director;
(ii) six members to be nominated by the relevant Board of Study approved by the Board of whom at
least three members shall be specialist grade  doctors  from  the  relevant speciality  and shall  be
nominated from among   those  who  are  being,  or   had  been  employed   in  any  of   the
undergaduate  institutes, Units of  Ayurveda, Siddha or Unani sytems of Medicine established
under the Act or training centres of the Ministry of Indigenous Medicine;
(iii) three members nominated by the Board from among the specialist grade doctors in the relevant
speciality;
(c) each Speciality Board shall have a Chairman and Secretary who shall be elected by the members of the
Speciality Board from among its members and the tenure of the office shall be the tenure of the Speciality
Board;
(d) quorum of any meeting of a Speciality Board shall be one third of the total membership excluding the co-
opted members, if any;
(e) tenure of the  office of a Specility Board shall expire on the date of expiry of the tenure of  the office of the
Board of Study;
(f) each Speciality Board shall hold a minimum of six meetings each year;
(g) each Speciality Board may recommend co-opting of specialists for a specific purpose and for a specified
period and no person so co-opted shall have the right to stand for election or vote at any meeing of  the
Speciality Board;
(h) in instances, where a member of a Speciality Board who is not a  member of a relevant  Board  of  Study
concerned is assigned to present matters pertaining to the Speciality Board at a meeing  of  the  relevant
Board of Study such nominee shall be deemed to have been duly co-opted for  that  specitic  presenation
and on completion of such presentation he ceases to be a co-opted member;
(i) the Board shall have the power to dissolve a Speciality Board or remove a member of a Speciality Board
on a vote of  censure passed by not less than two thirds of the total membership of the Board.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'08 11 A
PART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
(4) Subject to the provisions of the Act, Ordinance or any appropriate instrument and the general direct ions and
control of the Board of Study each Speciality Board shall perform and discharge the following functions:-
(a) submit recommendations and a report to the relevant Board of Study on all matters concerned with courses
of study,training programmes, curricula and examinations related to the speciality;
(b) recommend the appointment of sub-committees, when relevant,  which  may  include  persons other  than
members of the Speciality Board for the purpose of considering and reporting on a special subject to the
speciality, if any;
(c) recommend to the Board of Study the requirements for admission of trainees to courses of study,  training
programmes and examinations;
(d) submit to the Board of Study draft regulations relating to courses of study and examinations;
(e) recommend to the Board of Study such persons who are suitable for recognition as trainers and examiners
in conformity with  the general rules and regulations governing such fuctions; and
(f) shall report on mattes being referred to the Speciality Board by the Board of Study concerned or the Board.
15. The  financial year of the Institute shall be the same  as the financial year of the Government.
16. (1) The institute shall have a fund to be called the Postgradute Institute of Indigenous Medicine Fund (hereinafter
referred to as the "Fund"), into which shall be paid-
(a) fees to be paid to the Institute in accordance with the provisions of ay appropriate instrument;
(b) income from endowments;
(c) moneys provided by  the Parliament and disbursed by the Commission as grants in aid  of the Institut e;
(d) all other moneys belonging  to the Institute from whatever source derved.
(2) A summary of all sums of money paid to the Fund within the course of a particular month, classified under the
appropriate heads of revenue, shall before the end of the next ensuing month be submitted by the Dir ector to
the Commission for its information.
17.It shall be the duty of the Director-
(a) to keep the accounts of the Insitute in such form and manner as may be prescribed by Ordinance;
(b) to receive  all moneys paid into the Fund and to credit such moneys to the proper heads of accounts;
(c) to make all authorized  payments;
(d) to prepare for the Board such triennil estimates as are required by the Commission and the annual financial
appropriations for the ensuing year:
Provided however, that income derived from grants made for specific purposes or from endowments for specific objects,
shall be separately accounted for in the accounts of the Institute, and that no payment shall be mad e from such income for
the general purposes of the Institute or for any purpose or object other than for  which such grants  or endowments were
respectively made.
18. (1) The Institute shall prepare an annual statement of accounts, and statistics relating to its activiti es in such
form and manner and containing such particulars as the Commission may from time to time specify.
(2) The books of accounts of the Institute shall be in the office of the Institute.
19. Such provisions of Part XIII of the Act as are relevant to the auditing of the accounts of a  higher educational
institution shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to the auditing of  the accounts of the Institute.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'0812  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
20. (1) The staff of the Institute shall consist of such officers and other employees as it may with the concurrence
of the University and the approval of the Commission deem necessary for the efficient exercise, discharge and performance
of the powers, duties and functions of the Institute.
(2) The staff of the Institute shall be provided on release by the University from among its own  staff  or  be
appointed by the Commission or the University, as the case may be. The provisions of part X of the  Act
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to appointment to the staff of the Institute.
(3) Where the services of an officer or other employee of the University have been provided to the Istitute on
a full-time basis, the Institute shall pay him the salary and the allowances  of  his  substantive post  in  the
University. In any other case, the Institute may pay the officer or other employee concerned, such
allowance as it may determine in consultation with the University and with the approval of the
Commission.
(4) The staff of the Institute shall be subject to the direction and the disciplinary control of the Dir ector.
21. If any question arises as to whether any person has been duly elected, appoined, nominated or co-opt ed or as
to whether any person is entitled  to be, a member of any Authority or other body of  the Intitute, such question shall be
referred to the Commission in the event the Board is unable to resolve the question raised whose decision there of shall be
final.
22. No act, resolution or proceeding of  any Authority or other body of the Institute, shall be invalidated merely by
reason of the existence of a vacancy or of vacancies among its members or of any defects in the  appoitment of such member.
23. Upon the coming into operation of this Ordinance, the power to grant and to confer postgraduate degr ees,
postgraduate diplomas, postgraduate certificates and other academic distinctions  in the specialities of Ayurveda Siddha and
Unani systems of Medicine shall be vested solely in the  University of Colombo, Sri Lanka.
Provided however,-
(1) that the University  of Colombo, Sri Lanka, shall grant and confer such   postgraduate degrees, postghraduate
diplomas, pstgraduate certificates and other academic distinctions only upon  the recommendation  of  the
Institute.
(2) that any University established or deemed  to  be  established  under  the  Act,  may   grant  and  confer  such
postgraduate degrees, postgraduate diplomas, postgraduate certificates and  other academic   distinc tions  in
any specialities, of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani systems  of Medicine in respect of which no Board of Study
has been established by the Institute under the provisions of paragraph 13.
(3) that any University established or deemed to be established under the Act, may grant and confer postgraduate
degrees based wholly or partly upon research in any  speciality of Ayurveda, Siddha  and  Unani  sys tems of
Medicine, whether or  not a Board of Study in respect of such speciality has been established by the Institute
under the provisions of paragraph 13; and
(4) that academic distinctions in the specialities of  Ayurveda, Siddha  and  Unani  systems  of  Medicine  my  be
granted by professional bodies by arrangment with the Institute and the University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, and
with the concurrence of the Commission.
24. In this Ordinance-
" Act" means the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978;
" appropriate instrument" means any Order, Ordinance, Statute, By-law , Regulation or Rule made in accordance with
the provisons of the Act;
"Commssion" means the University Grants Commision established under the Universities Act;
" Examiner" mean a person having five years experience after Board Cerfification or equivalent quali fications  or
eligible for privileges of Board Certification and who shall be in active service in any University or  in the Ministry of
Indigenous Medicine;

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'12'08 13 A
PART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  08.12.2017
" professional body" means an association, college or other body of persons in any speciality of Ayu rveda, Siddha
and Unani systems  of Medicine either incorporated by an Act of Parliament or recognised as such by the Board;
"Trainer"  mean a person having three years experience after Board Certification  or equivalent qual ifications  or
eligible for privileges of Board Certification and who shall be in active service in any University or in the Ministry of
Indigenous Medicine;
"Training Centre"  mean a hospital, ward or unit that provides instructions and training or instructions or training  in
a speciality approved by the Board and the Senate on the recommendation of the Board of Study concerned with reasonable
notice but without prejudice to any existing membership of a Board of Study;
"Speciality of Ayurveda Medicine" means Kaya Chikitsa, Shalya, Shalakya, Sthree Roga and Prasutitant ra,
Kaumarabhrithya, Deshiya Chikitsa, Swastha Vrittha, Agadatantra, Dravya Guna Vignana, Bhaisajya Kalp ana and Rasa
Shastra, Shareera Vignana, and Maulika Siddhanta or any other speciality approved by the Commision upon the recommedation
of the Institute and the University from time to time.
"Speciality of Siddha Medicine" means Siddha Maruthuvam, Aruvai maruthuwam, Siroroga  Maruthuvam, Pe n
Noyiyalum, Mahapettru Maruthuvam, Kuzhanthai Maruthuvam, Paramparai Maruthuvam, Samooha Nala Maruthu vam,
Nanjiyal, Gunapadam, Siddha Marunthiyal and Siddha Moola Thatthuvam or any other speciality aproved by the Commis-
sion upon the recommendation  of the Institute and the University from time to time.
"Speciality of Unani Medicine" means Moalijat, Ilmul Jarahat, Amraz-e-Ain Anf Uzn V a Halq, Amraze-e-Niswan V a Qabalat,
Ilamul Atfal, Deshiya Ilaj, Tahaffuzi V a Samaji tibb, Ilmul Sumoon, Mufrad Advia, Dawa Sazi V a Kushta Sazi, Thasreeh-ea-
Badan V a Munafe-ul-Aaza, Al Umoor al Tabaiyya or any  other speciality approved by the Commission upon the recommen-
dation of the Institute and the University from time to time.
12-806
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.