

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'02
PART  I :  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.02.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2056$41 - 2018 fmnrjdß ui 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'02'02
No. 2056/41 -  FRIDAY   FEBRUARY  02,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
My No.   PS/CSA/00/1/14
BY   HIS  EXCELLENCY   MAITHRIPALA   SIRISENA
PRESIDENT   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA
                                                                                                                MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
 Seal
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A- G  26159 — 22  (02/2018)
To:
1. Hon. Anil Gooneratne, Retired Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Mr. Ethauda Arachchige Gamini Rohan Amarasekara, Judge of the Court of Appeal
3. Mr. Piyasena Ranasinghe, Retired Judge of the High Court
4. Mr. Mallawaarachchige Don Anthony Harold, Retired Deputy Auditor General
5. Ms. Wasantha Jayaseeli Kapugama Geeganage, Director General, Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards
Monitoring Board
     Greetings!
Whereas, alleged irregularities committed in respect of the matter referred to in the schedule hereto have been
brought to my notice;
And whereas, noting that the scope of the investigation and inquiry into the said matter under this warrant would
not in any way impose a fetter upon the relevant authorities exercising their statutory and legal responsibilities and also
taking note that the relevant authorities are empowered in terms of the applicable written laws to consider and, where
possible, pursue available action, in terms of the applicable written laws, notwithstanding the inquiry and investigation
conducted  in terms of this warrant;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'02
PART  I :  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.02.2018
2A
And whereas, noting that this investigation and inquiry under this warrant is in addition to and without prejudice to
any measures that have been taken or which may be taken by relevant authorities including the Police, the Commission to
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption and the Attorney General;
And whereas, it has become necessary to inquire and investigate into such matter referred to in the schedule
hereto and to identify the persons, if any, who have been so involved in such irregularities committed in respect of the
matter referred to in the said schedule hereto;
And whereas, it has become necessary to identify the person, persons or entities, if any, responsible for such
irregularities committed in respect of the said matter referred to in the said schedule hereto;
And whereas, I am of the opinion that it is in the national interest to cause the conduct of investigation and inquiry
into such matter set out in the schedule to this warrant in order to determine what measures should be taken to ensure that
there will be no recurrence of such acts in the future;
And whereas, I am of the opinion that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to investigate,
inquire into and report on the said matter referred to in the said schedule hereto;
Now therefore, I Maithripala Sirisena, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing
great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, do in pursuance of provisions of Section 2 of the
Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) as amended, by these presents appoint, the said;
1. Hon. Anil Gooneratne, Retired Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Mr. Ethauda Arachchige Gamini Rohan Amarasekara, Judge of the Court of Appeal
3. Mr. Piyasena Ranasinghe, Retired Judge of the High Court
4. Mr. Mallawaarachchige Don Anthony Harold, Retired Deputy Auditor General
5. Ms. Wasantha Jayaseeli Kapugama Geeganage, Director General, Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing
Standards Monitoring Board
to be my Commissioners to investigate, inquire into and report on the following, namely:
a. the management, administration and conduct of  affairs of Sri Lankan Airlines Limited (hereinafter Sri
Lankan Airlines), Sri Lankan Catering Limited (hereafter Sri  Lankan Catering), and Mihin Lanka (Private)
Limited (hereinafter Mihin Lanka) in respect of the matter  referred to in the said schedule hereto;
b. whether there has been any malpractice, irregularity or non-compliance with or disregard of the proper
economic and financial prudence, norms, guidelines, procedures and best practices applicable in relation
to such management, administration and conduct of affairs in relation to the said matter referred to in the
said schedule hereto resulting in loss, damage or detriment, either direct or imputed, to the Government,
any statutory body or any other entity including Sri Lankan Airlines, Sri Lankan Catering, Mihin Lanka and
the nature and magnitude of such losses;
c. whether any contractual obligations related to Sri Lankan Airlines, Sri Lankan Catering, and Mihin Lanka
relating to the said matter referred to in the said schedule hereto have been entered into or carried out,
fraudulently, recklessly, negligently, imprudently or irresponsibly, without due professional care or due
diligence,  considering accepted norms, guidelines and best practices resulting in loss, damage or detriment,
either direct or imputed, , to the Government, any statutory body or any other entity including Sri Lankan
Airlines, Sri Lankan Catering, Mihin Lanka and the nature and magnitude of such losses;
d. whether proper economic and financial prudence, norms, guidelines, procedures, best practices and
adequate safeguards have been adopted to ensure that the  matter referred to in the said schedule hereto
resulted in obtaining optimum benefit, to the Government, any statutory body or any other entity including
Sri Lankan Airlines, Sri Lankan Catering, Mihin Lanka;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'02
PART  I :  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.02.2018
3A
e. the person or persons responsible for the act, omission or conduct, which has resulted in such loss,
damage or detriment, either direct or imputed, to the Government, any statutory body or any other entity
including Sri Lankan Airlines, Sri Lankan Catering, Mihin Lanka in respect of the said matter  referred to
in the said schedule hereto;
f. whether any inquiry or probe into the aforesaid matter referred to in the said schedule hereto had been
obstructed or prevented in any manner, resulting in loss, damage or detriment, either direct or imputed, to
the Government, any statutory body or any other entity including Sri Lankan Airlines, Sri Lankan Catering,
Mihin Lanka, and, if so, the person or persons responsible for such obstruction;
g. the procedures and guidelines which should be adopted in the future to ensure that such matter referred to
in the said schedule hereto are carried out with transparency and with proper professional care and
accountability with a view to secure optimum benefit to the Government, any statutory body or any other
entity including Sri Lankan Airlines, Sri Lankan Catering, Mihin Lanka;
h. whether there has been misuse or abuse of power, influence, interference, fraud, corruption and nepotism
or any other action or omission in relation to the said matter referred to in the said schedule  hereto;
i. make recommendations with reference to the said matter referred to in the said schedule hereto that have
been inquired or investigated into under the terms of this warrant.
And I do hereby appoint you, the said Hon. Anil Gooneratne Esquire to be the Chairman of the said Commission.
And I do hereby authorize and empower the said Commissioners to hold all such inquiries and make all other
investigations into the aforesaid matter referred to in the said schedule hereto as may appear necessary, and require you to
transmit to me within six (6) months from the date of this warrant a report/s thereon under your hand, setting out the
findings of your inquiries and investigations and your recommendations relating thereto.
And I do hereby direct such part of any investigation or inquiry relating to the aforesaid matter referred to in the
said schedule hereto, as you may in your discretion determine, shall not be held in public.
And I do hereby require and direct all public officers and other persons to whom you may apply for assistance or
information to render all such assistance and furnish all such information as may be properly rendered and furnished in
that behalf.
And I do hereby declare that provisions of Section 14 of the aforesaid Commissions of Inquiry Act shall apply to
the Commission.
Given at Colombo under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka on this 31
st day of January,
Two Thousand and Eighteen.
By order of His Excellency,
AUSTIN F ERNANDO,
Secretary to the President.
Schedule
Alleged irregularities in connection with Sri Lankan Airlines Limited (hereinafter Sri Lankan Airlines), Sri Lankan
Catering Limited (hereafter Sri Lankan Catering), and Mihin Lanka (Private) Limited (hereinafter Mihin Lanka) during
the period from 01
st January, 2006 to 31 st January, 2018 pertaining to;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'02
PART  I :  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.02.2018
4A
(a) Infusion of funds through share capital and borrowings including funding by the General Treasury, Bank of
Ceylon, People’s Bank and any other financial institution or entity, and investment of such funds.
(b) Establishment, operations, and winding up of Mihin Lanka.
(c) Termination of agreements between Sri Lankan Airlines and Emirates, The International Airline of the
United Arab Emirates, including reasons and ramifications thereof.
(d) Entering into, extension, and cancellation of agreements pertaining to the purchase, sale, lease, sale and
leaseback, transfer, exchange, release, and disposal of aircrafts and any other assets.
(e) Procurement of goods and services and re-fleeting of aircrafts including purchase, sale, lease, sale and
leaseback, transfer, exchange, release, and disposal of aircrafts and any other assets, value of which exceeds
Rs. 50 million.
(f) Hiring and appointment of agents, brokers, consultants, firms and any other individual or entity for the
provision of goods, services or any other task.
(g) Opening, maintenance and discontinuation of route network and offices in other countries.
(h) Transactions between Sri Lankan Airlines, Sri Lankan Catering and Mihin Lanka.
(i) Human resource management including recruitment, appointment, remuneration, promotion, transfer,
retrenchment, and retirement of personnel, appointment of  Boards of Directors, Chief Executive Officers,
Chairmen, and other senior management.
(j) Financial reporting, compliance with applicable accounting and auditing standards, and financial and
operational performance and condition.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.