

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1834$19 – 2013 Tlaf;dan¾ 29 jeks wÕyrejdod – 2013'10'29
No. 1834/19 – TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2013
1A – 18444 – 175 (2013/10)
My No.: CI/1812.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Bank of Ceylon, No. 01, “BOC Square”, Bank of Ceylon Mawatha, Colombo 01 of the one
part and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 24th day of  July 2012 is hereb y
published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter  131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised  Edition
1956).
V . B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
10th October, 2013.


<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT No. 26 OF 2012
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
BANK OF CEYLON of No. 1, “BOC Square”, Bank of Ceylon Mawatha, Colombo 01,
 of the one part
AND
CEYLON BANK EMPLOYEES’ UNION, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10,
of the other part
This Collective Agreement is made on this 24th day of July, 2012 by and between the Bank of Ceylon of the one part (hereinafter referred
to as “the Bank”) and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union of the other part (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union’).
Title: This Agreement will be known and referred to as “BANK OF CEYLON COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT WITH THE
CEYLON BANK EMPLOYEES’ UNION FOR THE PERIOD FIRST JANUARY , TWO THOUSAND TWELVE TO THIRTY FIRST
DECEMBER, TWO THOUSAND FOURTEEN. (01.01.2012 – 31.12.2014)”
1. Employer to be Covered and Bound.–  This Agreement shall cover and bind the Bank of Ceylon, which is a party to this
Agreement.
2. Employees to be Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind members of the Union in employment with the Bank
and who are employed in any of the categories for which a salary scale has been prescribed in this Agreement in the Annex hereto.
3. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall  come into force on First January Two Thousand Twelve (1st January,
2012) and thereafter continue to be in force, unless it is determined by either party giving six months notice in writing to the other provided,
however, that no party shall give such notice to the other party before the 1st day of July, 2014 and such notice shall not expire before the
31st day of December, 2014.
4. Matters Covered and Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits.–
(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters raised by the Union
in relation to the period 2012 – 2014 and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion
of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise any of the
matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement other than the matters relating to
non salary benefits which shall be discussed by the Management of the Bank with the Staff Officers’ Association and the
Ceylon Bank Employees Union and reach finality on or before 31st January 2013. After an Agreement has been arrived at, as
regards non salary benefits the terms and conditions of same shall be annexed to this Agreement, which shall from an integral
part thereof.
(b) The Union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any
of the terms and conditions of employement or benefits applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than by
mutual agreement with the Bank.
5. Salary Components.– As from 01.01.2012 each employee covered and bound by this Agreement shall be paid upon and subject
to the other terms and conditions herein contained a monthly salary which comprises the following components;
(a) Fixed Component linked to “Basic Salary” and related allowances.
(b) Variable Component linked to performance. (Please refer Section 5.2)

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
3A
5.1 Fixed Component
The Fixed Component comprises the following items:-
(i) Revised Basic salary as set out in the Annexure hereto.
(Increments will be granted continuously notwithstanding the maximum point given in the salary scales.)
(ii) Allowances
(a) In addition to the basic salary, the following allowances will be paid, effective from 01.01.2012.
(i) Cost of Living Allowance as per item ( b) below
(ii) Rent Allowance as per item (c) below
(iii) 10% of Basic salary, Rent Allowance and Cost of Living Allowance.
(b) The Cost of Living Allowance at the rate of Rs. 2.75 will be frozen as at December, 1999 at the index point of
2404.9.
Commencing January, 2000 every 1 point change over and above the Colombo Consumer Price Index (CCPI) of
December 1999 only will be computed at Rs. 3.00. If the index point drops below the December level, i.e., 2404.9
the computation should be at the rate of Rs. 2.75 per point.
(c) The Rent Allowance, which will be 20% of the Basic Salary.
5.2. V ariable Component.– Basis of determination of Variable component will be decided upon in the course of time.
6. Taxes on Emoluments.–  Paye tax on emoluments of staff will be borne by the Bank.
7. Conversion of the Basic Salary.–
(a) The Basic Salaries of all empolyees will be converted to the revised scale by applying the step for step (point by point)
method of coversion.
Eg. An employee who had been on the 5th step of the scale as at 31.12.2011 will be placed on the 5th step of the relevant
revised scale with effect from 01.01.2012.
(b) Non-Banking Stream personnel shall also be placed at the appropriate revised salary scale on the same basis.
8. Conversion Anomalies.–  The Bank of Ceylon and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union jointly agree to execute Collective
Agreement for the years 2012 - 2014 subject to referring to a Salary and Cadre Committee to examine the possible anomalies associated with
calculation of increments in the salary scales.
The Committee will be given a period of three months from the date of appointment to study and report the methods and the
implementation. The Committee will be appointed within one month from the date of execution of this agreement.
9. Other Commitments.–  The Union further agrees to assist, cooperate and support the Management of the Bank in every manner
to obtain the maximum contribution of its members to achieve the targets set out in the Business Plan of the Bank.
10. Where the existing terms and conditions of employment of an employee covered and bound by this agreement and any existing
concession extended the members of the Union are more favourable than the terms and conditions provided for in this Agreement, then
nothing in this  Agreement shall in any way affect or prejudice such existing terms and conditions of employment or such concessions shall
continue to exist, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein.
11. Where an employee was immediately prior to the date hereof entitiled to, becomes entitle on or after that date under or by virutue
of any law, contrary agreement, award or custom to any rights or privileges more favourable to those to which he/she would be entitled under
this agreement, nothing in agreement shall be deemed or construed  to authorize or permit the Bank withold, restrict or terminate such right
or privilege.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
For and On behalf of the

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
5A
11 – 433

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
My No.: CI/1399.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Agro Technica Limited, 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 of the one part and the United Tea
Rubber and Local Produce Workers’ Union, 513-2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 24th day of January 2011 is
hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (R evised
Edition 1956).
V . B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
09th October, 2013.
Collective Agreement No. 06 of 2011
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT  made this Twenty Fourth day of January Two Thousand and Eleven to take effect from the first day
of December Two Thousand and Ten pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act.
 BETWEEN
AGRO TECHNICA LIMITED, having its registered office at 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”) of
the
One part
AND
The united tea rubber and local produce workers’ union a registered Trade Union having its office at 513 - 2/1 Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo
05 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’) of the
Second part
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
Title: This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Agro Technica Limited Manual Worker’s Collective Agreement of 2010.
PART I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO AND
CONNECTED THEREWITH
1. Persons Covered and Bound.– This agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and the members of the Union who
are employed by the Employer as at the signing date of this Agreement in a manual or labouring capacity on monthly contracts of
employment and for whom express provision has been made in the wage scales set out in Schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of December Two Thousands and
Ten and shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determind by either party giving notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act in writing
to the other subject to the following provisos:–
(a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the Thirtieth day of November Two Thousands and
Thirteen and no notice given before that date shall be regarded as valid.
(b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lankan Rupee under any provisions  of law, a party shall be at liberty
to abrogate this Agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial Dispustes Act.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
7A
3. General Terms and conditions of employment. – During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this Agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of service be Written or Oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall come into being at any time after the  date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
4. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months.
Provided however that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee,
the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the
Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation the
Employer shall have the right  to  terminate the services of the Employee without notice. If the Employee’s services are not terminated for
unsatisfactory service during  the period of probation or extended probation and the Employees has not been confirmed  by the Employer
the Employee shall be deemed to be confirmed in his Employer’s service with effect from the day after the day on which the peri od of
probation or extended probation, as the case may be, ended.
5. Attendance.–
(1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on everyday (other
than a holiday) at the usual starting  time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
(2) If at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for  an Employee in his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform  work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other  work site of the
Employer where work is available.
(3) Irregular  attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
6. Hours of  work.– On a normal working day or on  a shift shall be nine (09) hours  inclusive of a half  hour  interval for a meal and
other intervals as at the date of this Agreement.
7. Forfeiture of wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer an Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such  failure occurs until he is again available for work.
8. Overtime.–
(1) If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable  overtime which has been authorized by the Employer.
Refusal to work reasonable  overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shall
constitute neglect of  duty for  which an Employee shall  be liable to appropriate disciplinay action.
(2) Overtime work (that is work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and a half (1 1/2)
times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (a) hereof.
9. Weekly Holiday and Short Working Day.–
(1) In respect of each week every Employee shall be allowed a paid holiday on a Sunday in that week as a  weekly holiday
provided however, that if an Employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any
period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit  and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s
wage in respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (b) hereof.
(2) In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall include–
(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to the Employee as annual holiday;
(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of clause 11 hereof;
(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
(3) The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) a day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided however, that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and
in such event that Employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in
accordance with the provisions of clause 16 ( b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that
Employee within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further, that in respect of not more than two (2) such
weekly holidays in any one calendar month  the Employer may with the consent of the Employee–
(a) instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that
Employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as
aforesaid, pay him one day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (b) hereof in lieu
of such alternate holiday,
or
(b) in case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday  as aforesaid,
in respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a
day’s wage as aforesaid, employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) that in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration–
(a) one and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (a)
hereof for the number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours exclusive of one (1) hour for a meal; and
(b) at double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 ( a) hereof for each
subsequent hour of work. The provisions of this sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside
the business premises of the Employer for periods exceeding twelve (12) days in respect of the duration of each
such period.
(4) Saturday shall be a non-working day only for Employees for whom it was a non-working day as at present. In their case
where and Employee does not qualify for a paid weekly holiday in terms of this clause he shall forfeit three fifth of his pay
for Saturday if he has worked only two days in the week; four fifth of his pay for Saturday if he has worked one day of the
week and shall receive no pay for the Saturday if he has not worked on any day in the week. For the purpose of this sub-
clause days worked will be reckoned in terms of sub-clause 2 above.
10. Annual Holidays.– Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages
Boards.
11. Public Holidays.–
(1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages Boards. Provided
however, that an Employee may be employed on a Public holiday in accordance with the decisions of the aforesaid Wages
Boards.
(2) If any public holiday which an Employee is eligible to under the provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day either
in the six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall be granted
to the Employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of clause 9 hereof.
(3) If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Saturday the
employee shall be granted a full alternate holiday with pay on the day immediately preceding such public holiday.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
9A
12. Casual Leave.–
(1) In respect of each year of employment during which any Employee has been continuously in employment that Employee
shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill health if that Employee’s
entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as ‘Casual Leave’) with remuneration for the
period or an aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual Leave and shall be
liable to pay such remuneration. Provided however, that not more than two (2) days Casual Leave shall be taken at any time
save and except upon the ground of ill health. Provided further that any Employee shall not be entitled to take Casual Leave
immediately preceding or immediately following any period of annual holidays. Provided further that in respect of any
Employee’s first year of employment including any period of probation he shall be entitled to Casual Leave for that year
computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months’ service.
(2) Casual Leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for the
application. Where an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for Casual Leave his difficulty shall be notified to
the Employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the Employee may be required to state the
reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him
Casual Leave.
13. Sick Leave.– In any year an Employee shall be entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days provided that –
(a) his illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer) and
(b) the employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 4 hereof. Provided however, that an Employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and Sick Leave not
exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.
14. Monthly Consolidated Wages in Lieu of CCPI Consolidation.–
(1) Subject to the provisions of Clauses 15 and 22 hereof, as from the First day of December Two Thousand and Ten, each
Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained, a monthly consolidated wage
on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedules 1 and 2 hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set out in Schedules 1 and 2 hereto and which shall thereafter stand revised in terms of this
Agreement include all allowances currently applicable to employees and those specifically consolidated in terms of Clause
16(2)(a) of the Collective Agreement No. 26 of 1988.
(3) This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
(4) ( a) The wages of employees who are in employment as at the date of this agreement will be revised as follows:–
(i) A sum of Rs. 500/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of December
Two Thousand and Ten.
(ii) A sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of December
Two Thousand and Eleven.
(iii) A sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of December
Two Thousand and Twelve.
(5) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka –
(a) prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging the
Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and
in terms of such written law;
(b) recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of whether
or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
2A – G18444

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
6. ( a) As a matter of goodwill it is agreed that an employee who is in employment at the date hereof shall receive an ex-gratia
payment of a sum representing the amount added to the wage of each individual employee by virtue of Clause 15(1)(i)
hereof multiplied X 4.
(b) This lump sum payment by way of notional arrears shall not constitute a part of an employee’s earnings for any
purpose whatsoever and shall not attract consequential payments such as overtime, Provident Fund, Trust Fund, etc.
15. Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages.–
(1) For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which and Employee shall receive with effect from the First day of December Two
Thousand and Ten on the basis of scales of consolidated wages set out in Schedules 1 and 2 hereto the following provisions
shall apply:
(i) to the salary payable to an employee as at the Thirtieth day of November Two Thousand and Ten an amount equal to
12.5% of the salary payable to an Employee as at Thirtieth day of November Two Thousand and Ten shall be added.
(2) Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point of the salary scales set out in the Schedules 1 and 2
hereto in the scale and grade applicable to him. If there is no corresponding point, he shall be placed on the next highest point
on the same scale and grade in monetary terms.
16. Wages for Periods less than One Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:–
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) for one half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
17. Productivity Bonus.– A productivity bonus of Rs. 2,300/- will be payable on the same terms and conditions of the current
scheme for the current levels of production in the respective sections. Not less than 17 days of average annual attendance per month. Persons
who exceed the leave quota will not be entitled to the productivity bonus.
18. Annual Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity.–
(1) A lump sum payment on an ex-gratia basis would be made at the end of each year of this Agreement on the following basis:–
(i) Rs. 14,000/- payable in November 2011
(ii) Rs. 14,000/- payable in November 2012
(iii) Rs. 14,000/- payable in November 2013
(2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on this Ex-gratia payments.
19. Provident Fund.–
(1) The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’ Provident
Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Employees’ Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980 where the Employer and Employee as at the
date hereof were contributing to Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employee’s Provident
Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
11A
20. Terminal Benefits.– The Employer will pay terminal benefits to Employees in accordance with the Gratuity Act No. 12 of
1983.
21. Bonus.–
(1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payment in the past
and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each
of his employees a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for the year immediately
preceding the signing of the Agreement No. 20 of 1982. If in any year the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus to
an amount less than the sum of money paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing
of Agreement No. 20 of 1982 the Union may canvas such reduction of bonus with the Employer concerned. If the Union is
not satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the Union may pursue this matter with the Employers Federation of Ceylon, If
the dispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with the Federation, the same shall be referred to a committee of three
(3) persons (hereinafter referred to as ‘Bonus committee’) which shall be constituted in accordance with the provisions of
subclause 2 for settlement in the manner hereinafter set forth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner General of Labour will
constitute a Bonus Committee which shall consist of three (3) senior accountants nominated by the Council of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10) years’ post
qualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the Institute of Char-
tered Accountants will be communicated by the Institute of Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner General of Labour,
the Employer, the Union and to the Federation. Thereupon the Commissioner General of Labour will communicate in writing
to each member of the Bonus Committee so constituted a statement of principles and procedures by which the members of
the Bonus Committee shall be bound in settling the dispute as to the reduction of Bonus.
(3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedures from the Commissioner General of
Labour the Bonus Committee shall in accordance with the said Principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of the
bonus by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should be
reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate its decision in writing to the Employer, the Union, the Federation and the
Commissioner General of Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute and the Union and/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of
Trade Union action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If however, the Bonus Committee is
divided in its decision then the decision of the Commissioner General of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on the
parties to the dispute and the Commissioner General’s decision shall be communicated in writing to the Federation, and the
Union or its numbers shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during the
Continuance in force of this Agreement.
(4) The Bonus committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus as in the year immediately preceding the signing of this
Agreement.
(5) The fees payable to the members of the Bonus committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to the
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner General of Labour.
(6) The payment of bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to employees in the year immediately preceding the signing
of Agreement No. 20 of 1982 shall be in the sole discretion of the Employer and shall not be called in question by the union
and/or its members nor shall the Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus scheme.
(8) At the request of the Commissioner General of Labour the council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka will
nominate three (3) chartered accountants with not less than ten (10) years of post qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms to serve on the Bonus Committee.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
22. Annual Increments.–
(1) The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in Schedules 1 and 2 hereto shall be
automatic, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality or
disciplinary action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case where an
increment is–
(a) deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;
(b) stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(c) suspended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being depen-
dent upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither
stopped nor deferred. then the suspension shell be treated as waived nad the full increment from the date of suspen-
sion thereof shall occur to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee has been
notified, in writing of a complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency,
fraud or misconduct which in the circumstances does not merit termination of employment.
(2) With effect from 1st December 2010 the incremental rates in schedule 1 will be revised as follows.
Craftsman Rs. 135/-
Skilled Rs. 125/-
Semi Skilled Rs. 105/-
Unskilled Rs. 95/-
Class B Rs. 105/-
(3) With effect from 1st December 2010 the incremental rates in schedule 2 will be revised as follows.
Grade 1 Rs. 95/-
Grade 2 Rs. 105/-
Grade 3 Rs. 125/-
Class B Rs. 105/-
23. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee, by
a letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
24. Suspension.–
(1) An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer –
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal;
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of business of the Employer;
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry;
(2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)( a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide the
Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold an inquiry
into the charge or charges in terms of clause 25 hereof.
25. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then –
(1) Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under clause 24 hereof or not, the Employee shall be furnished with
a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such Employee
and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than three (3) clear working days in which to give the answer or
explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
(2) Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
13A
circumstances it is reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish a written
answer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer, the
Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(3) If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
(4) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within ten (10) working days
from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
(5) After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except for
reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from
the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such
charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(6) If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that –
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 24(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespec-
tive of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the
charges in the show cause notice;
(b) The employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s
suspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employer is unable to make
a final order as its is necessary and desirable that matter be referred to the Police or other authorities for further
investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authorities or if in view of the
serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previously referred to the
Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or inquiries be
awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.
(7) If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make order under paragraphs (a)
to (c) of the preceding sub clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30) working
days from the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for a period
of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in excess of
thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding
sub–clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(8) In any case where the employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a) to
(c) of sub clause 6 within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from so doing
by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between the
Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for such further time
as may be agreed.
(9) The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub clauses 4 and 5 hereof where the Employer
proposes to warn the Employee or where the employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the Union
disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an inquiry the
Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then apply subject to
the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after the receipt of the
Employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.
(10) The Employer may, as an alternative to more serious disciplinary action recover from an Employee the cost of damage to or
loss of the Employer’s goods or property or percentage thereof, caused through the negligence of the Employee as deter-
mined at a domestic inquiry or on the admission of the Employee.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
26. Retirement.–  On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an
Employee who has retired may, in the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed–
27. Termination of Services.–
(1) Every contract, whether oral or written for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for work usually performed
by the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 4 hereof or unless otherwise expressly
stipulated) be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable
from month to month and shall be deemed  and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given
by either party to the other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period or
the failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.
28. Union Recognition .–  The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of any of its members who is
employed in any workplace of the Employer bound by this Agreement. In regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle
such as matters affecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the follo wing
provisions shall apply:–
(1) When the Union is representative of not less that forty per cent (40%) of the employees whose membership subscription is
not is arrears, the Employer of such employees will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and
negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty percent (40%)
of such employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with
the Union competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each such
Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one workplace and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one workplace but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in the
service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claims or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified memebers of such Union in proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of the
Employer in Sri Lanaka.
(3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishent of the Employer the Union is,competent to make
general claims or raise general matters, the same shall be determined by a referendum which shall be held by the Department
of Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the employer and the Union and the parties hereto.
29. Disputes Procedure.–
(1) In the first instance the Union shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer of such members and give
the Employer at least ten (10) working days time whithin which to reply. If in the Union’s opinion the Employer’s reply is
unsatisfactory the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
(2) When the union concludes that negotiations with the employer have been abortive it shall ask the Department of Labour to
intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange conference and/or discussions with a view
to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until the
Departmet of Labour reports failure.
(3) Subject to the provisions of clause 31 hereof all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties hereto
shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate, support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
15A
30. How Anomalies in the course of Implementing this Agreement shall be Dealt with.– Any anomaly, arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiaion between the Employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be settled by
negotiation, it shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regualations made thereunder.
31. Trade Union Action.– The Union and the Employees jointly and serverally agree with the Employer that during the continu-
ance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade union action against the Employer, in respect of any
dispute between the Union or the Employees and the Employer whether or not such dispute is related to the Agreement, except where such
dispute has been caused by an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the Union
is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union and/or its members or
is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and/or its members. Provided however that at least seven (7) days notice
in writing shall be given by the Union to the Employer, the Federation and  the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of
commencement of any intended strike or other form of trade union action consequent upon an act of the Employer which in the Opinion of
the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence
or the legitimate activities of the Union and/or its members is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and/or its
members.
32. V ariation of terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits.–
(1) The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree with he Employer that during the continuance in force of this
Agreement they will not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employmet presently applicable
to any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement as amended or altered in terms of this Agreement, or all or any
of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual
agreement.
(2) The Employer agrees with the Union and the Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or
any of the benefits presently enoyed by the Employees other than by mutual agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses 1 or 2 may be resolved by voluntary
arbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlemet by voluntary
arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.–  If in the opinion of the Employer and the Federation the Union shall commit a breach of
any of the terms of this Agreement, then an in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions
granted by the Employer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right
to restore such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide.
2. Domestic Inquiries.–  If an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 25 is a member of the Union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice:–
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘an
Observer’) to be present as an Observer without loss of wages for absence from work.
(b) If the Employer who is served with a show cause notice desires an ‘Observer’ to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may as him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
3. Union Meetings.–  The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union:–
(a) In respect of each meeting which the Union desires to hod at the Employer’ s premises, an application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose inter-alia, one or more of the
undernoted conditions:–
(i) That no person other than an employee in the service of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, office bearers of the Parent Union may, with the
previous approval of the Employer, attend;
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of the
Union is granted are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of the, or in connection
with a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other person at the Employer’s premises and the Union shall
indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave.–
(1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave–
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse to grant permission if , in his discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two Office Bearers of the
Union–
(a) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.
or
(b) To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, arbitrators or Labour Tribunals–.
without loss of wages for such absence.
(2) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union course or
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidays
which he wishes to utilize for the purpose.
5. Check Off.–
(1) The facility of check-off shall be granted, subject to Clause 1 of Part II hereof only so long as the Union represents no le ss
than forty (40) percent of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the wages due to such Employees the current
monthly Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the
amount so deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set
forth.
(3) Every employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No. 1 referred to as an “Authorization”.
(4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect in
the form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a ‘‘Revocation’’.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after  the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
17A
(6) As far as practicable deductions under and authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation canceling such
authorization. Provided however–
(a) that the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with subclause 5 or 6;
(b) that at his discretion the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check–off in any month in
which the deductions from the Employee’s wages in that month exceed the deduction permitted by Law.
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employee concerned by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to the
Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the
Union’s dues actually deducted.
FORM NO. 1
Name of Employer :               AGRO    TECHNICA   LIMITED
AUTHORIZATION
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the AGRO TECHNICA LIMITED COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2010 and I desire to avail
myself of the facility for check – off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the UNITED T EA
RUBBER & LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION, please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees................ (Rs.  ) in
respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should
please be made from my wages due immediately following the date hereof.
……………………… ………………………
(Date of Signing) (Signature of Employee)
…………………………… ………………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
FORM NO. 2
Name of Employer :               AGRO TECHNICA LIMITED
  REVOCATION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour  of
UNITED TEA RUBBER & LOCAL PRODUCE WORKER’S UNION with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following
the date hereof.
……………………… ………………………
(Date of Signing) (Signature of Employee)
3A – G18444

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
…………………………… ………………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to them.
WORDS MEANING
Branch Union The Branch Union at the factory
Check– Off The act of the Employer deducting in terms of Clause 5 of Part II the
subscriptions payable to the Union by an employee from the latter’s
pay.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee
(For convenience sometimes referred to as ‘he’ or its An employee covered and bound by this Agreement
grammatical variations)
Employer Agro Technica Ltd
Federation Employers’ Federation of Ceylon
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive an increment
Relevant Wages Board The Wages Board which covers the Trade in which the particular
employee is employed in.
Union United Tea Rubber & Local Produce Workers’ Union
W age The monthly wage according to the scale of consolidated wages in
Schedules 1 and 2 hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on
the succeeding Saturday night.
Y ear A continuous period of twelve (12) months
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
19A


<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
21A
4A – G18444
Schedule 1 (6)

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
Schedule 1 (6) Conti.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
23A
Schedule 2 (a)

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
Schedule 2 (a) continued

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
25A
Schedule 2 (b)

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013


<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fÊoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'29
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.10.2013
27A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
11 – 434