

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 771 
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 770
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"181 – 2020 cqks ui 19 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'06'19
No. 2,181 –  fRiday ,  juNE  19, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th july, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th june, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
767 - B 82031- 5,403 (06/2020)
N. B.–   (i) Part ii, iii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2180 of 12.06.2020 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
768
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service  : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions  : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
769
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a  candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a  candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. t ampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
770
Posts – v acant
bhIkSu uNIvERSITy Of SRI LAN kA, 
ANuRADhAPuRA
Invitation for Applications/Nominations 
Post of mahopadyaya (v ice-Chancellor)
iN pursuance of the Buddhasravaka Bhiksu university 
act, No. 26 of 1996 and the amendment of act, No. 15 of 
2012, and provisions of the university Grants commission 
circular No. 02/2020 of 04th May 2020 applications or 
nominations for the post of the MaHoP adyaya  are 
invited from the qualified Bhikkus who have possessed the 
following qualifications. 
01. Post-graduate degree in Buddhist Studies or in any 
other subject connected thereto from a recognized 
university on a research done within a period of not 
less than two years. 
02. Ten years of experience in the field of teaching. 
03. Possess a good knowledge of oriental languages. 
04. Shall be a disciplined upasampada Bhikku who has 
completed twenty years after upasampada. 
the Mahopadyaya shall be appointed for the period 
of three (03) years. He shall be a full time officer of the 
University and the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief 
Academic Officer thereof. The Mahopadyaya shall be ex-
officio member of the Uththarithara Sabawa and ex-officio 
member and chairman of both the council and the Senate. 
He shall  be responsible for the maintenance of discipline 
within the university. the Mahopadyaya shall be the 
Accounting Officer of the University, who shall comply 
with any determination or directive of the council. it shall 
be the duty of the Mahopadyaya to give effect or to ensure 
that effect is given to the decisions of the council and of 
the Senate. The Mahopadyaya shall hold office for a term 
of three years or until he completes his sixty fifth year 
whichever event occurs earlier. 
the applicants/nominees should be citizens of Sri Lanka 
and shall be less than 63 years of age to the application 
closing date. 
the Mahopadyaya is eligible to be placed on the 
highest salary scale of the university and be paid other 
allowances approved by the government and the university 
Grants Commission. He will also be provided an official 
vehicle with fuel allowance and residential facilities in the 
university premises. 
the following documents should accompany with the 
application/nominations :
 (i) a  completed curriculum vitae of applicant/
nominee including date of birth. 
 (ii) a  personal statement of vision for the development 
of the university and a brief account of what the 
applicant/nominee expects to achieve if appointed 
to the post of Mahopadyaya. 
 (iii) a letter of consent from the nominee in case of a 
nomination.
 (iv) a  letter from the employer indicating whether the 
applicant/nominee could be released in the event of 
his appointment to the post in case of the applicant/
nominee serving in public service, corporations, 
Statutory bodies and Higher Educational 
institutions other than the Bhiksu university of Sri 
Lanka. 
 (v) Where the incumbent Vice chancellor is an 
applicant or had held the post of Vice chancellor of 
the university before, such an applicant should also 
give a report highlighting accomplishments during 
his first period of the office. 
the council shall recommend three names from among 
Bhikku applicants/nominees who possess the qualifications 
specified above and in the order of marks obtained by the 
candidate and submit those names to the uththarithara 
Sabawa and the uththarithara Sabawa then shall select and 
recommend the name of one Bhikku applicant to the H. E. 
President through the Hon. Minister. 
the candidates short listed by the Evaluation committee 
and approved by the council shall be invited for a brief 
presentation of minimum ten (10) minutes duration but not 
exceeding fifteen (15) minutes to the University Council. 
applications/Nominations should be addressed to the 
"Registrar, Bhiksu university of Sri Lanka, Puttalam Road, 
anuradhapura" and sent under registered cover or hand 
delivered to reach him on or before 3.00 p. m. on 30th june, 
2020. 
the envelope containing application/nomination 
with relevant materials must be marked "Post of the 
Mahopadyaya" on its top left-hand corner. 
applications received after the closing date and 
incomplete will not be entertained. 
the previous paper advertisement published on the 
01.03.2020 in this connection is hereby rescinded. 
 u. d.
 DoDanwala, 
 Registrar and Secretary to the council,
 Bhiksu university of Sri Lanka. 
28th May, 2020.
06–269

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
771
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
TELECOmmuNICATIONS   REGuLATOR y  
COmmISSION   Of   SRI   LANkA    (TRCSL)
Examination for the Issue of Amateur Radio 
Operator’s License by the TRCSL - 2020
1. CATeGories of Amateur radio operator’ s License :
(a) amateur Radio operator’s advanced class License,
(b) amateur Radio operator’s General class License,
(c) amateur Radio operator’s Novice class License.
2. Minimum entry requirements.– Every candidate 
entering for the examination must be fourteen (14) years of 
age or over on the closing date of applications.
3. scheme of examination :
 (a)  Advance Class.– the examination consists of two 
parts :
  Part 1:- t wo (2) compulsory written papers to be 
undertaken at one sitting :
Paper i - advance Electrical t echnology and 
Radio communications (3 hours) ;
Paper ii - Licensing conditions, operating 
Practices and Procedures (2 hours).
  Part 2 :- Practical Morse code t est (05 words per 
minute).
 (b)  General Class.– the examination consists of two 
parts. t wo (2) compulsory written papers to be 
undertaken at one sitting :
Paper i - fundamentals of Electricity and Radio 
communications (2 hours) ;
Paper ii - Licensing conditions, operating 
Practices and Procedures (1 hour).
 (c)  Novice Class.– the examination consists of two 
parts. t wo (2) compulsory written papers to be 
undertaken at one sitting :
Paper 1 - Basic Electricity, Radio and Electronic 
theory (2 hours) ;
Paper ii - Licensing conditions, operating 
Practices and Procedures (1 hour).
4. Conditions of examinations.– the following 
conditions shall apply to all categories of amateur Radio 
License Examinations :
 (i) t o pass the examination, the candidates should 
pass all papers of the examination and minimum 
pass mark is 50% for each paper.
 (ii) candidates must pass the two (2) written papers 
of the examination at the same sitting.
 (iii) only those candidates who pass Part 1 of the 
examination will be allowed to appear for Part 2 
(Morse test) in case of advanced class.
 
5. Medium of examination.– the examination will be 
conducted in English Medium only.
6. examination Fees.– applicants who conform to 
the requirements of the examination are required to remit 
the examination fees mentioned in this notification to the 
"t elecommunications Regulatory commission of Sri 
Lanka". if further information in this regard is required, the 
applicants are requested to write to the tRcSL.
the examination fee is payable either by cash or d ebit/
credit (Master and Visa) card Bank draft from any 
Bank drawn in the name of the "t elecommunications 
Regulatory c ommission of Sri Lanka". the entry form must 
be sent by recorded delivery on registered post or delivered 
by hand. Official receipts must be retained as TRCSL will 
not consider any claim that form has been overlooked or lost 
unless proof of posting of delivery is produced.
fees are not refundable  or cannot be transferred from 
one examination to another at a later date. any candidate 
who withdraws his application or cannot appear for the 
examination due to any reason whatsoever will be required 
to pay approximate examination fee for any subsequent 
entry.
 Category of  Fee for Fee for  
 examination Part 1 Part 2
advance class 250.00 125.00
General class 125.00 -
Novice class 125.00 -
Note.– Excluding Government t axes and Levy. 
7. Closing Date of Application.– the examination will be 
held once a year. the date of examination will be informed 
by the commissioner of Examinations. applications must 
be made on the appropriate entry form obtained from the 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
772
under mentioned office, completed, and submitted to the 
address given below on or before the closing date mentioned 
below :–
director General,
tRcSL,
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
colombo 08.
 Category of License Last Date of entry
advanced class 
General class 31.07.2020
Novice class
 
Note : application format available at http://www.trc.
gov.lk/downloads/applications.html/
8. Attestation.– candidate's signature must be attested by 
one of the following :
a justice of Peace, commissioner of oaths, an attorney-
at-Law and Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the 
army, Navy or air force, Gazetted Officer of the Police, 
a person holding a permanent post in the State Service 
drawing a consolidated salary of not less than Rs. 493,920 
per annum. all other applications will be rejected.
9. Identification of Candidates.– a candidate will be 
required to prove his/her identity in the examination and 
for this purpose any of the following documents will be 
accepted :
 (a) a  valid identity card issued by the Postmaster - 
General ;
 (b) a  valid Passport ;
 (c) an identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons.
all candidates are required to act in conformity with the 
Provisions of the Examination act, No.25 of 1968.
any matters which has not been provided for under these 
Rules and Regulations will be settled at the discretion of the 
director-general of t elecommunications.
 director General,
 tRcSL.
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
colombo 08,
08th june, 2020. 
06-154
mINISTRy Of hEALTh & INDIGENOuS 
mEDICAL SERvICES 
dEPaRtMENtaL   EXaMiNatioN   foR   
PRELiMiNaRy   GRadE MEdicaL    officERS   
aNd   dENtaL   SuRGEoNS – MaRcH,  2020
it is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination 
should be passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary Grade 
before promotion to Grade ii, By dental Surgeons before 
confirmation in the Service and by the Medical officers 
in administrative Grade or Specialist Grade who have 
not completed previously this departmental Examination 
during a period of two years from the date of appointment 
to such post as per Section 08 of the Medical Service 
Minute of Sri Lanka in the Health Services published in the 
Gazette extraordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of 11.10.2014, will be held on 
26.07.2020 in Sinhala, tamil and English medium. the 
venue and the time of the examination will be notified along 
with the admission card.
02. Qualifications.– Medical Officers in the Preliminary 
Grade who have not completed the relevant examination 
and Dental Surgeons who are not confirmed in the service 
can apply for this examination. Medical officer appointed 
to a post in the administrative Grade or Speicalist Grade 
previously without having completed this examination also 
can apply for the above Examination.
03. Applications .– applications that should be prepared 
by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of this 
circular must be handed over to the Head of the institute on 
or before 25.06.2020. The applications that are certified as 
all the eligibilities have been fulfilled, should be forwarded 
to the director (Examinations), Ministry of Health and 
indigenous Medical Services, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385,                                                                                                                         
Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, colombo 
10, on or before 30.06.2020 through their Heads of 
institutions. And only the officers who have satisfied 
qualifications as at 30.03.2020 should apply for this. the 
Head of division should certify the accuracy of contents in 
each application. two self addressed envelopes in the size of 
9" x 4" inches, affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 45.00 
should be sent along with the application. (candidates can 
write their official or private address). Applications which 
are received late, incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using an 
A4 paper based on the specimen form of the 
application so as to recommended from 01 to 04(e) 
on the first front page and from 04(f) to 09 on the 
second page. Applications which do not conform 
to above will be rejected any information. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
773
04. examinati on fees :
 (i)  Candidates who sit the examination for the first 
time need not pay examination fees. However, in 
every subsequent sitting they should affix stamps 
to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps 
cage provided for in the application and cancel 
same by placing their signature and the date.
 (ii)  the fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer 
for any other Examination or refunded under any 
circumstances.
05. Admission to the examination :
 (i)  candidates whose applications have been 
accepted will be issued with admission cards. 
they should duly complete and submit same 
to the Supervisor at the Examination centre. 
otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the 
examination.
 (ii)  candidates should prove their identity to the 
Supervisor at the examination hall. for this 
purpose one of the following documents will be 
accepted :
 (a)  National identity card ;
 (b)  a formal identity card issued by the Ministry 
of Health or a relevant institution ;
 (c)  Valid driving License ;
 (d)  Valid Passport.
 (iii) if you did not receive your admission card 
due to any unavoidable reason you can trace 
your examination centre and the index number 
through the web site ; if you were able to trace 
your examination centre and the index number 
as mentioned above you are permitted to be 
presented at the examination centre in the web 
site together with a letter attesting your signature 
by your immediate superior officer and sit the 
examination by establishment of your identity. 
the applicants who have received the admission 
card should certify their signature and should be 
bought. the applicants who have obtained the 
certification on their signature will not be entitled 
to face the examination. 
  (Web site : www.health.gov.lk).
06. scheme of the examination. – the examination 
consists of four parts that is three written essay type question 
papers and a Sinhala/t amil oral test. Each part carries 100 
marks. a minimum of 50 marks should be obtained for each 
part to pass the examination and this examination could be 
completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of the 
examination in several sittings. At the first attempt officer 
should appear for all relevant subjects. 
07. syllabus of the examination  :
 7.1  Written examination  :
 7.1.1  establishments Code Questions Paper  :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer five 
(05) out of eight (08) questions.  
  syllabus :
 (i)  General Regulations of the department 
of Health Services in Health Ministry ;
 (ii)  orders and Regulations of the Public 
Service commission ;
 (iii) Establishments code :
 Part i - chapters Vi, Vii, Viii, iX, Xii, 
Xiii, XiV , XV , XVi, XVii, 
XViii, XXiii, XXiV , XXV , 
XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXX, 
XXXi, XXXii
 Part ii - chapters XLVii and XLViii ;
 7.1.2  Administration of Hospitals and 
Dispensaries Questions Paper :
  duration 1 1/2 hours. total marks 100. 
Should answers four (04) questions out of 
seven (07) questions.
  syllabus :
  Health Manual :
 (i) administration of Hospital and 
Public Health, 
 (ii) Management of Laboratory Services, 
 (iii) Management of drugs.
 7.1.3  Accounts Questions Paper :
  duration 02 hours. Should answers 04 
questions out of 07 questions.  

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
774
  syllabus :
  (i)  Regulations o f Stores accounts of the department of Health Services ;
 (ii)  Sections of finance in the Manual of the department of Health Services ;
 (iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health -  
chapter i - f . R. 1, 2, 78.
chapter ii - f . R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 115, 118, 119.
chapter iii - f . R. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 143, 
151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 189.
chapter V  - f . R. 200, 201, 215, 225, 238, 245, 255, 257, 260.
chapter Vi - f . R. 380, 381, 382, 383, 384, 385, 386, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393 394.
chapter Vii - f . R. 488, 493.
chapter Xiii - f . R. 715, 716, 756, 757, 758.
Procurement Guideline : 
chapter 1 - all Sections
chapter 2 - Section number - 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8.
chapter 3 - Section number - 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9.   
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : This oral test is conducted by the staff officers of the Departmental to measure the 
proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala medium officers to communicate in Tamil medium and 
the ability of the Tamil medium officers to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters that arise 
while discharging their normal duties is tested. duration 10 minutes. 
08. To follow the regulations related to examination Procedure.- candidates are warned against copying or 
attempting to copy from the script of another candidate or from any book or paper or notes whatsoever. No candidate should 
attempt to look at the script of another candidate and should not help any candidate either help another candidate or obtain 
help from another candidate or person. further mobile phones and the similar electronic equipments should not be used. any 
candidate who disregards this rule is liable to punishment. 
09. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized 
compaign/institution. the information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
N.B.– In case of any inconsistency between the texts Sinhala, Tamil and English the text in Sinhala 
language shall prevail. 
 dr. S. H. MunaSingHe,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Health and indigenous Medical Services. 
Ministry of Health  and indigenous Medical Services,  
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
10th june, 2020.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
775
For Office Use Only   
Specimen form of Application              
dEP aR tMENtaL   EXaMiNatioN  foR  PRELiMiNaR y  GRadE
MEdicaL   officERS  aNd  dENtaL   SuRGEoNS - MaRcH, 2020
01. (a)  (i)  full Name of the applicant (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  full Name of the applicant (in English capitals Block Letters) :
 (iii)  Name with initials (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (iv) Name with initials (in English Block Letters) :
   (b)  (i) designation (Please mark ( ) in relevant cage) :
   (i) Medical Officer   (ii) Dental Surgeon
 (ii)  date of internship appointment :–––––––––––––.
 (iii)  date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade ii :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “X” against the 
subjects not offered) :
 admin. of Hospitals and dispensaries Establishments code  accounts
 Sinhala Viva Voce t amil Viva Voce
03. Medium you sit for the examination  (Mark ‘ ’ in relevant cage)
 Sinhala :                     English :                       t amil : 
04.  (a)  (i) Present Station :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) this institution belongs to :  Line Ministry
       Provincial council
 (b)   (i) if Provincial cou ncil mention Province :–––––––––––.
   (ii) district of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
 (c) Mobile t elephone No. :
 (d) National identity card No. :
 (e)  Please mark  “” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (if any or 
several examination centres , out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
776
to absence of a sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers 
would be re-attached to a closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the director General of 
Health Services).
  colombo Kandana Hambantota ampara
  Kaluthara Galle Badulla Vavuniya
  Kurunegala anuradhapura Rathnapura Polonnaruwa
  Kandy Batticaloa jaffna trincomalie
 (f)  Whether two self-addressed envelopes in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 45.00 has 
been attached to the application to post the admission card? :––––––––––.
 (g)  (i)  Postal address to post the admission card (in Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Postal address to post the admission card (in English) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a)  Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
 (b)  If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
 (i)  i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge 
and, I need not affix stamps since, I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of                  
Rs. ………… since, I repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and 
not used.
 (ii)  i agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Ministry of Health and indigenous Medical 
Services for the conduct of this Examination and if, i was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the 
Examination, i agree with whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of the officer who handle the Personal File  : 
i certify that this application was handed over to me before the closing date  and particulars furnished by the applicant 
in this application are true and accurate according to the particulars in the personal file and a copy of this application is 
attached to the personal file. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Name and Signature.
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
777
08. Certification of Head of Institution  :
 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……….................. serves as 
a ................................... in this institution, and the particulars 
furnished by him/her in the application are correct according 
to the particulars in his/her personal file, and he/she sit the 
examination for the first time and he/she is eligible to sit 
this examination and he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of institution.
 (Rubber Stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
09.  Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/
specialized Campaign  :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss ………...........................…… serves 
as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/
campaign* and the particulars furnished by him/her* in the 
application are correct in accordance with the particulars 
available in his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to 
sit for the Examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of decentralized unit/
 Specialized campaign (frank/Rubber Stamp).
date :––––––––––––.
(* - delete words which are inapplicable)
06–214
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––
hEALTh SERvICE COmmITTEE Of PubLIC 
SERvICE COmmISSION 
ministry of health and Indigenous medicine
caLLiNG aPPLicatioN foR PRoMotioN of 
officERS iN SRi LaNKa ayuRVEdic MEdicaL  
SERVicE to SuPRa GRadE
aPPLicatioNS are called from ayurvedic Medical 
Officers serving at the line Ministries/ Provincial Council/ 
Local Government Institutions who have satisfied 
following qualifications as per the Service Minute of 
Sri Lanka ayurvedic Medical Service published by the 
Gazette extraordinary No 924/2 dated 20th May 1996, to 
be promoted to 16 vacancies of Supra Grade of Sri Lanka 
ayurvedic Service as at 01.07.2017.
01 Qualifications :
 1.1 Medical Officer category at Department of 
ayurveda:
 (a) Shall have experience in Hospital 
administration for not less than three (03) 
years: and
 (b) Shall have completed a satisfactory 
period of eight (08) years in Grade two of 
Medical Officer category in Department of 
ayurveda, and
 (c) Shall have obtained a certificate from a 
recognized university or a post graduate 
institute having completed a Post Graduate 
diploma course as mentioned in appendix 
ii of the Minute of Sri Lanka ayurvedic 
Medical Service or any other higher 
educational qualification.
 1.2 Medical Officer (Research) category at 
department of a yurveda:
 (a) Be an officer of Grade One in Medical 
Officer (Research) Category at Ayurveda 
Research institute
 (b) Shall have obtained a Post Graduate 
certificate from a recognized University or 
a Post Graduate institute recognized by the 
Government, as mentioned in appendix 
iii of the Minute of Sri Lanka ayurvedic 
Medical Service.
  or
 (c) Shall have completed a satisfactory 
period of eight (08) years in Grade two 
of Medical Officer category in Ayurveda 
Research institute, and
 (d) Shall have obtained a Post Graduate 
certificate from a recognized University or 
a Post Graduate institute recognized by the 
Government, as mentioned in appendix 
iii of the Minute of Sri Lanka ayurvedic 
Medical Service,
  or

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
778
 (e) Shall have completed a satisfactory period 
of fifteen (15) years as a doctor in public or 
provincial public service:
  or Shall have completed a satisfactory 
period of fifteen (15) years as a doctor in 
public and provincial public service: and
 (f) Shall have obtained a Post Graduate 
certificate from a recognized University or 
a Post Graduate institute recognized by the 
Government, as mentioned in appendix 
iii of the Minute of Sri Lanka ayurvedic 
Medical Service
  and
 (g) Shall be a medical officer with outstanding 
experience in ayurveda research.
 1.3 Medical officer (education) category at National 
institute of indigenous Medicine:
  (a) Shall be an officer in Grade One of Medical 
Officer (education) category at National 
institute of indigenous Medicine: and
  (b) Shall have obtained a Post Graduate 
certificate from a recognized University or 
a Post Graduate institute recognized by the 
Government, as mentioned in appendix 
iii of the Minute of Sri Lanka ayurvedic 
Medical Service.
   or
  (c) Shall have a satisfactory service period 
of eight (08) years in Medical officer 
(education) category at National institute 
of indigenous Medicine:
   or
  (d) Shall have completed a satisfactory period 
of fifteen (15) years as a doctor in public or 
provincial public service:
   or Shall have completed a satisfactory 
period of fifteen (15) years as a doctor in 
public and provincial public service: and
  (e) Shall have obtained a Post Graduate 
certificate from a recognized University or 
a Post Graduate institute recognized by the 
Government, as mentioned in appendix 
iii of the Minute of Sri Lanka ayurvedic 
Medical Service, and
  (f) Shall be a medical officer with sufficient 
experience in teaching
02.  Promotions of three (03) Medical Officer categories 
in Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service are made only to fill 
existing vacancies in the number of posts approved by the 
annual estimates.
 2.2  When the vacancies of the approved number of 
posts are filled, the promotions are made to be 
effective from 01st of january or 01st of july in 
every year.
Note: Special consideration shall be given for Seniority 
and experience.
03.  Number of vacancies are 16.
 (i) Since promotions are made to posts in Supra 
Grade fallen vacant in every six months from 
01.07.2014 to 01.07.2017 (ex. as at 01.07.2014, 
as at 01.01.2015, as at 01.07.2015 etc.) the 
Ayurvedic Medical officers who satisfy the 
qualifications on such dates can apply for the 
promotions.
 (ii) Ayurvedic Medical Officers who have satisfied 
above qualifications at the time of retirement, 
can also apply.
04 . applications prepared in line with the format given 
herein (application can also be downloaded at www.
ayurveda.gov.lk) shall be sent to reach commissioner for 
ayurveda, department of ayurveda, Navinna, Maharagama 
on or before 10.07.2020. the words “calling for applications 
to promote Officers in Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Officers 
to Supra Grades should be indicated on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope.
05 . the initial salary step of a post in Supra Grade 
is the 20th salary step of SL-1-2006 in accordance with 
Public administration circular No 6/2006 (Rs.2,935- 
10x645- 8x790- 17x1,050- Rs. 53,555) and the officers 
who are promoted to supra grade after 01.01.2016 shall be 
entitled for the 20th salary step of SL-1-2016 (Rs. 47,615- 
10x1,335- 8x1,630- 17x2,170- Rs. 110,895) as per the 
Public administration circular No. 03/2016.
06.  the mark scheme of the interview held for the 
promotion of officers in Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical 
Service, shall be as follows :
 6.1  Period of service : (Max.50 Marks)
  03 marks for each year in Grade ii which exceeds 
the minimum period of service mentioned under 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
779
01 above and 05 marks for each year served in 
Grade i.
  (When marks are given for seniority, provisions 
in Public Service commission circular No. 
01/2019 shall be followed for a period less than 
one year to allocate marks proportionately)
 6.2  Additional Educational Qualifications:
(Max. 15 Marks)
 
  For post graduate qualifications obtained from 
a local/foreign university or local/foreign post 
graduate institute recognized by the government 
on any of the subjects included in the Minute of 
ayurvedic Service,
 (a) Post Graduate diploma mentioned in the 
Service Minute - 05 Marks
 (b) Master of Science in a subject related to 
ayurveda Medicine - 08 Marks
 (c) M.Phil/ Md in a subject related to ayurveda 
Medicine -
  (Not obtained the certificate of academic 
board) - 10 Marks
 (d) M.Phil/ Md in a subject related to ayurveda 
Medicine - (Obtained the certificate of 
academic board) - 15 Marks
Note:  i. Marks are allocated for post graduate 
qualifications mentioned above obtained from 
a local/foreign university or local/foreign 
post graduate institute recognized by the 
government on any of the subjects included 
in appendix ii or iii of Minute of ayurvedic 
Service.
 ii. No marks shall be allocated for educational 
qualifications considere d under qualifications 
in 01 above.
 6.3 Statements:                         (Max. 10 Marks)
  for journals/ books/ publications at international/ 
national level which are published for the 
progress of the field of Ayurveda Medicine and 
recognized by the ayurvedic Medical council
 (a) for scholarly researches/publications in 
journals at international level (05 marks 
for each and maximum 10 marks) or
 (b) for a scholarly book published with 
relevance to Ayurveda field (05 marks for 
each and maximum 10 marks) or
 (c) For research articles relevant to the field 
with not less than 500 words published in 
journals/publications/newspaper at national 
level (mark for each and Maximum 10 
marks)
Note:
 i.  for the publications published with the 
participation of a few authors, the contribution 
of the applicant shall be clearly mentioned and 
the marks shall be given proportionate to the 
contribution made.
 ii. Publications which are with same or similar 
conclusions made on the basis of same data/ 
research shall not be considered separately. at 
such occasions, only one publication shall be 
considered for marks.
 iii. Publications mentioned above shall be submitted 
to a committee of experts at the Ministry of 
Health and indigenous Medicine to examine the 
relevance/ suitability to the field and the marks 
are given on the recommendations recieved.
 6.4 training (Maximum 15 Marks)
 (a) t raining courses held for not less than 02 
weeks on hospital management relevant 
to local/foreign Ayurveda field (01 Mark 
for each and maximum 15 marks) or
 (b) Experience in a post relevant to ayurveda 
Service Management where the officer 
was appointed formally by the appointing 
authority to act in the post (03 marks for 
each year and Maximum 15 marks)
 6.5 Other Qualifications : (Max. 10 Marks)
 (a) course on Second Language (Maximum 2.5 
marks)
 (b) course on Link Language/international 
Language (Maximum 2.5 Marks)
 (c) course on Management (Maximum 2.5 
Marks)
 (d) course in information technology 
(Maximum 2.5 Marks)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
780
Note :
 I. For a full time/part time Diploma with not less than 450 hours relevant to the fields mentioned above - 2.5 Marks. 
  for a full time/part time diploma course with not less than 150 hours - 1.5 Marks
  A Certificate course not less than 03 months - 0.5 Marks
 II. Marks shall only be given for the highest qualification mentioned above and the maximum marks to be obtained 
under other qualifications shall be 10.
07. Method of selection.– applicants who secure the highest marks in accordance with the marking scheme 
mentioned above shall be promoted to Supra Grade after verifying the educational and professional certificates, seniority, 
service experience and training certificates and documents of the applicants who have completed basic qualifications. 
08. The decision of the Health Committee of the Public Service Commission shall be the final with regard to any 
matter not covered by this notification. Further, in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English 
text of this Examination Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
on the order of the Public Service commission, 
  S. H. 
MunaSingHe, 
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of Health and indigenous Medical Services. 
in colombo, 
28th May, 2020.
SpeciMen application
application for proMotion of officerS in Sri lanka ayurveDic MeDical Service to Supra graDe
01. Name with initials :––––––––––––––.
02. full Name :––––––––––––––. 
03. date of Birth :––––––––––––––.  
04. National identity card :––––––––––––––. 
05. contact No.:  
06. address of the current Service Station :––––––––––––––.
07.  (i)  Have you been confirmed in Service ? :––––––––––––––.
  (ii)  Date of Confirmation in Service :––––––––––––––.
08.  (i)  current Post and Grade:  
  (ii)  date of appointment to relevant Grade:  
  (iii)  Period of Service in the relevant Grade:
   (y ears) :––––––––––––––.        (Months) :––––––––––––––.     (days) :––––––––––––––.
09.  Educational Qualifications relevant to the field :
institution Name of the Course Stream (As per Appendix II/III of 
the Minute of sri Lanka Ayurvedic 
Medical Service)
Duration Date of Completion 
(including the 
training period)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'06'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.06.2020
781
10.  Other Educational Qualifications :
institution Name of the Course Duration Date of Completion (including 
the training period)
11. Publications by the Officer in the field relevant to the post :
  (i) .....................................................
  (ii) ..................................................... 
12. Language Proficiency:
  (i) Second Language Proficiency (Sinhala/ Tamil) Year :––––––––––––––.
  (ii) Link Language year :––––––––––––––.
13. Particulars of No Pay Leave, if any:
reason for obtaining
No Pay Leave
Period of Leave
From To
Number of leave taken
Years :           Months :           Days :
14. Have you ever been subjected to disciplinary action during the period of service? (if yes,) :
Disciplinary Decision Period of offense committed as per the charge sheet
i declare that the particulars given above are true and correct. i hereby certify that i agree to all service terms and 
conditions mentioned in the circular of calling applications.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––––.
15. Recommendation of the Head of the institution :
the application to be promoted to Supra Grade of Sri Lanka a yurvedic Medical Service, submitted by Mr/Mrs/
Miss ................................... is hereby forwarded and i certify that the particulars mentioned therein are correct and that 
disciplinary actions have/have not been taken against the officer within the preceding 05 years.
 ––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and the Official Frank of the Head of the Institution.
date :––––––––––––––.
applications which are not in accordance with the specimen application shall be rejected without notice.
06–258
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEP aR tMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.