

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'20
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 20.10.2023
N. B.–   (i) Part III of the Gazette No. 2,222 of 01.04.2021 was not published.
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PRoVIncIAL  councILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
    Page
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...   —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... —
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant  ...  —
                                                                                                         Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.  ...               714
Notices calling for Tenders   ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices  ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
N.B.—    Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2354 of 13.10.2023  was not published. 
 
     
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette10th November 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th October,  2023.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
	 Gangani	Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
713 - B 82507- 5,403  (10/2023)
 wxl 2"355 - 2023 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'10'20                
 No. 2,355 - FRIDAy ,   OCTOBER  20, 2023                                                                                                         

<!-- page 2 -->

714
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'20
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 20.10.2023
examinations, Results of examinations, &c.
   
PRoVIncIAL  councIL  PubLIc SeRVIce commISIon
north Western Province
RecRuITmenT  of GRADuATeS  on PRoVIncIAL  bASIS  foR  The cLASS  3 GRADe I (A) 
of  SRI  LAnkA  TeAcheRS ’ SeRVIce foR  SInhALA , enGLISh AnD TAmIL  meDIum 
VAcAncIeS  exISTInG  In The PRoVIncIAL  councIL  SchooLS  of The 
noRTh WeSTeRn PRoVInce – 2023
ONLINE  applications are hereby invited from the eligible graduates for recruitment on Provincial basis to the post of Class 
3 Grade I (A) of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service as per the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service in North Western 
Provincial Council Public Service to fill the existing vacancies in the North Western Provincial Council schools. 
   
 01.  Graduates will be recruited on provincial basis for Sinhala, Tamil and English medium subjects and one applicant can 
apply for maximum 3 subjects. 
02.  The available number of vacancies for Sinhala, Tamil and English medium is given in the schedule and when applying 
for vacancies in the subject mentioned in the schedule, the degree qualifications specified in relation to the respective 
subject must be completed.
03.   Applicants should be careful about the subjects they can apply for according to their degree and should apply for the 
respective teaching vacancies only according to the major subject/subjects studied for the degree.     
   
 04.  Salary scale: 
  Salary scale applicable to this post is Rs.  31,490 - 6x445 - 7x525 - 2x600 - Rs. 39,035/- monthly combined salary 
scale in Segment GE 1-2016-A of the Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 (IV) dated 05.01.2022. Salaries 
will be paid placing on the salary step of Rs. 37,835/-, the fourteenth step of this salary scale.
05. Educational and Other Qualifications: 
 5.1 	Educational	Qualifications:
 I. Should have obtained a degree related to the subjects mentioned in the Schedule, and belonging to specialized 
subject areas recognized for teaching purposes, from a university or Degree Awarding Institute recognized by 
the University Grants Commission.
    And
 II.  should have passed Sinhala or Tamil Language and Mathematics in G.C.E. Ordinary Level Examination as a 
subject.
5.2   Physical and Mental Fitness:
  Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to perform duties as a teacher. 
  
 5.3 Age:
   Age should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years as at closing date of applications.  
5.4 	Other	Qualifications:
 I. Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 II. Should have an excellent moral character and physical fitness. 
 III. Should be able to serve in any area of North Western Province. 

<!-- page 3 -->

715
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'20
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 20.10.2023
 IV . Residency should be proved at the interview by a Residential Certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari, (DS 04 
Grama Niladhari Certificate) to be a permanent resident in North Western Province for a period not less than three 
(03) years by the closing date of applications.
 V .  In case the applicant does not have permanent residency for 03 years in the North-Western Province by the closing 
date of applications, if the spouse has permanent residency in  North-Western Province for 03 minimum years 
such applicants will also be considered (Spouse’s residential certificate( DS 04) and marriage certificate should 
be produced at the time of interview)
 
06.  Conditions of Service:-
 I. Selected graduate applicants will be appointed to the post of Class 3 Grade I (A) of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ 
Service subject to the general conditions which govern the appointments to the public / provincial public service, 
conditions stipulated by the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service Minute in North Western Provincial Public Service and 
to the amendments to same which have been made already or will be made in future.
 II.   This post is permanent. Appointees will be subjected to a policy decision taken by the  Government with regard 
to the pension scheme entitled for this post. 
III.      Appointees will be subjected to a probation period of 03 years.
 
IV .    Promotions will be made in terms of the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Teachers’  Service in North Western Provincial 
Public Service. 
 V . The Second Language competency level applicable to the post according to the Public Administration circular no. 
18/2020 dated 16.10.2020 should be obtained within 03 years from the date of appointment.
 VI.  Appointees should serve at least 05 years in the Educational Zone of the school to which the first appointment is 
given and cannot request for transfers during those 5 years.
 VII.  In the event that the school of first appointment is not a difficult or very difficult school, such appointees are bound 
to serve in a difficult or very difficult school for a period of at least 5 years at any time during the period of service.  
07.  Recruitment :
  
       7.1  Method of Recruitment:-
    Recruitments are made under the provisions of the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service in North  
 Western  Provincial Public Service.        
  7.2   Written Examination – This Examination will have two question papers. 
Subject No. Subject Maximum Marks Marks required 
to pass the 
examination
01 Aptitude Test (Duration: 01 hour) 100 40
02 General Knowledge (Duration: 01 hour) 100 40

<!-- page 4 -->

716
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'20
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 20.10.2023
Syllabus:
  Subject no. 01 - Aptitude Test 
 • This question paper will be prepared to test the skills and logical intelligence of the applicants. This paper will comprise 
of 50 multiple choice and short answer questions. (02 marks for each question and total marks is 100) 
  Subject no. 02 – General knowledge 
 • This paper will comprise of 50 multiple choice questions to test the general knowledge in social, economic, and 
political areas. (02 marks for each question and total marks is 100)  
  7.3         Examination Scheme:
 I Applicants are allowed to apply for this Examination either in Sinhala, Tamil or English medium. 
 II Every applicant should sit for both question papers. 
 III Every applicant should sit for all question papers in one language medium. This language medium should be the 
language expected for the appointment.
 IV Applicants who apply for English Language subject should sit for the examination only in English medium. 
 V Applicants are not allowed to change the language medium mentioned in the application, at a later stage. 
  
  7.4    Interview:-
  This interview will be conducted to test the qualifications mentioned in this Gazette notification, physical and mental 
fitness and to give marks for the class of the degree and additional qualifications. 
        (A)  Allocation of Marks for the Class of the Degree ( Maximum Marks 07 )
            1st Class                                       07 Marks
            11nd Class (Upper)                    05 Marks
            11nd Class (Lower)                    03 Marks
    (B) Allocation of Marks for Extra Qualifications (Maximum Marks 10)
Serial 
No. 
Criteria Maximum Marks
01 Obtained the Dhamma School Final Certificate or 
acceptable certificate equal to the said qualification in 
other religions.
05
02 Obtained government or government accepted Certificates 
for 1st, 2nd or 3rd place at National Level for co-
curricular activities such as Sports, Aesthetics.  
05
Total Marks 10
   7.5 Allocation of Marks for the Practical Test (Maximum Marks 08)
  Applicants should make a presentation not less than 5 minutes on a topic related to one of the applied subjects, at 
the practical test. The ability of expression of ideas and communication skills of the applicants will be considered 
especially at this test.  

<!-- page 5 -->

717
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'20
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 20.10.2023
08. Examination Centers:-
  This competitive examination will be conducted in the following cities.  If there is not enough number of applicants 
to set up an examination centre they will be directed to nearby examination centre.
District city city no. 
Kurunegala Kurunegala 1
Kurunegala Kuliyapitiya 2
Kurunegala Maho 3
Puttalam Puttalam 4
Puttalam Chilaw 5
   09.  Method of Selection:-
(A)  Selection will be done in accordance with the provisions of the Teachers’ Service Minute of the North Western 
Provincial Public Service.
(B)  In the event of an applicant has been selected for two (02) or three (03) subjects the North Western Provincial 
Public Service Commission will decide the subject to be appointed for such applicants.  
10.   Examination Fees:-
  A sum of Rs. 1200/- as the examination fee should be paid to any Divisional Secretariat in North Western Province 
to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the North Western Provincial Council and the receipt W.P.S.M. 02 
obtained from the Divisional Secretariat in favor of the applicant’s name should be affixed at the relevant place of the 
downloaded application. Receipts obtained by debiting to other institutions or Money Orders or Money will not be 
accepted other than W.P.S.M. 02 receipt and such applicants will not be allowed to sit for the examination. It should 
be noted that the examination fee is non-refundable under any circumstance and examination fees paid will not be 
allowed to transfer to any other examination. (Please keep a photocopy of the receipt for future reference).
11.  Method of Application :-
   11.1  (A)  Calling for applications for this recruitment will be done online through the website psc.nw.gov.lk. The application 
should be completed by visiting the website psc.nw.gov.lk and following the instructions given there. In addition, 
the online-application should be downloaded as PDF, get printed, and submitted as a hardcopy.
  (B)  The applied subject /subjects will not be allowed to change under any circumstance and one applicant will be 
allowed to submit only one online application.  
  (C)  The receipt of the examination fee should be pasted at the prescribed place in the downloaded hard copy and 
sent to North Western provincial Council Public Service Commission through registered post or courier service. 
(Keeping a photocopy of the downloaded hard copy will be useful)
  (D) Closing Date of Applications – 17.11.2023   
11.2   Duly filled downloaded hardcopy should be sent under registered post/courier service to reach the address 
mentioned below on or before 24.11.2023. 
Secretary, 
North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission,
Provincial Council Office Complex, 
Kurunegala.

<!-- page 6 -->

718
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'20
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 20.10.2023
  The words “Recruitment of Graduates for north Western Provincial Teachers’ Service on Provincial basis – 
2023” and the District of Residency should be clearly indicated in the top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application.
  The applicants who have paid the examination fee, submitted online applications on or before 17.11.2023 and forwarded 
the hardcopies will be issued with admissions to sit for the competitive examination. 
Allowing to sit for the examination will not be considered as an acceptance of qualifications.
11.3   Attestation	of	the	Signature	of	the	Applicant	:
  The signature of the applicant in the downloaded application form should be attested by a Principal of a Government 
School / a Justice of the Peace / Commissioner for Oaths / Attorney-at-Law / Notary Public / Commissioned Officer 
in the Armed Forces / an officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent staff  
grade post in the Public / Provincial Public Service whose initial basic salary is above Rs. 41,580/-.
  
12.  Identity	of	the	Applicants:	-	
  Every applicant should prove his / her identity for the examination, interview, and practical test using the below 
mentioned documents.
  (A) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons 
    or
  (B) A valid passport / valid driving license 
 Note: Applicants will be considered as ineligible for the examination if they fail to establish their identity                            
at the examination hall. 
13.  Applications should be filled with due consideration providing accurate information. Information will not be allowed 
to alter under any circumstances. If an applicant is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature is liable to be cancelled 
prior to, during or after the examination, or at any stage. If it is found that an applicant has furnished false information 
or intentionally omit accurate information, after appointment as a teacher, he/she shall be liable for dismissal or 
terminate from the Public Service at any time.
14.   An admission card and subsequently the calling letters for the interview and the practical test will be issued to the 
applicants who have paid the examination fee and submitted the online application and the printed copy on or before 
the due date, by the Secretary of North Western Provincial Public Service Commission, on the presumption that all 
applied applicants have fulfilled the required qualifications mentioned in the notification. The applicants who fail 
the interview and ineligible for the practical test will not be called for the practical test. Once the admission cards 
and calling letters are issued, a notification will be published in the website of the North Western Provincial Council 
Public Service Commission (www.psc.nw.gov.lk). In case the admission or the calling letter is not received at least 03 
days prior to the date of interview or practical test it should be notified immediately to the “Secretary, North Western 
Provincial Council Public Service Commission, Provincial Council Complex, Kurunegala” along with the following 
details.
 I. Full Name of the Applicant: 
 II. Address:
 III. National Identity Card Number:
 IV . Telephone Number of Applicant:

<!-- page 7 -->

719
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'20
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 20.10.2023
15.  The decision of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission will be final and conclusive on the 
matters pertaining to this notification and the matters not covered in this notification or any other matter not provided 
for in the notification.
16.  The North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission reserves the right to decide on conducting, 
postponing, or revoking this examination, or selecting or not selecting or the number of vacancies. 
17.  If there is any mismatch or inconsistency among the language phrases of this notification which is published in Sinhala, 
Tamil and English, the Sinhala text shall prevail in such instances. 
         By order of the North Western Provincial Public Service Commission, 
     
   E.M.P. Ekanayake,
 Secretary
 North Western Provincial Public Service Commission.
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala,
19.10.2023.
Recruitment of Graduates on Provincial basis for the class 3 Grade I (A) of  Sri Lanka Teachers’ 
Service for Sinhala, english and Tamil medium Vacancies existing in the Provincial council 
Sr. No. Subject Educational Qualifications
Primary Section 
(Grade 1-5 )
1 Primary I.    Bachelor of Arts General Degree or Special Degree with Sinhala Language / 
Sinhala Linguistics as a major subject throughout the course of study 
or
II.     Having obtained a credit  pass or above for Sinhala in G.C.E. (A/L) with any degree  
III.  Having obtained a distinction  pass for Sinhala in G.C.E. (O/L) and having 
obtained a credit  pass or above  for Mathematics in G.C.E (O/L)  with any 
degree          
Secondary 
(Grade 6-11 )
2 Science I.  Having  passed   A Level Biology, Chemistry and Physics with General or Special              
     Bachelor of Science / Applied Science Degree with  Biology / Chemistry/  Physics
    as a subject
II. Having obtained Credit pass  or above at G.C.E. (Advanced Level) for  Biology,
     Chemistry and Physics with any General or Special Bachelor of Science Degree
3 Mathematicts I.     Having passed G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Combine Mathematics / Mathematics 
with General or Special Bachelor of Science Degree with Applied Science /
Mathematics as a subject 
OR
II.   Having passed G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Combined Mathematics/Mathematics 
with a credit pass or above with any General or Special Degree.

<!-- page 8 -->

720
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'20
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 20.10.2023
Sr. No. Subject Educational Qualifications
4 First Language 
(Sinhala) & 
Literature
Bachelor of Arts General Degree or Special Degree with Tamil Language / Tamil 
Linguistics as a major subject throughout the course of study 
5 First Language 
(Tamil) & 
Literature
Bachelor of Arts General Degree or Special Degree with Sinhala Language / Sinhala 
Linguistics as a major subject throughout the course of study 
6 English Bachelor of Arts General Degree or Special Degree with English Language /English 
Literature/ English Linguistics as a major subject throughout the course of study 
7 History Bachelor of Arts General Degree or Special Degree with History, Archeology as a 
major subject throughout the course of study 
8 Geography Bachelor of Arts General Degree or Special Degree with Geography as a major 
subject throughout the course of study 
9 Oriental Music I.   Bachelor of Performing Arts General Degree or Special Degree with Oriental 
Music as a major subject throughout the course of study  
II.    Having obtained Credit pass  or above at G.C.E. (Advanced Level) for  
Oriental Music with Bachelor of Arts General Degree or Special Degree with 
Oriental Music as a major subject throughout the course of study 
10 Art I.  Bachelor of Fine Arts/ Performing Arts/ Visual Arts General Degree or Special 
Degree with Art  as a major subject throughout the course of study  
II.    Having obtained Credit pass  or above at G.C.E. (Advanced Level) for  Art  
with Bachelor of Arts General Degree or Special Degree with Art  as a major 
subject throughout the course of study 
11 Oriental Dancing I.   Bachelor of Performing Arts General Degree or Special Degree with Oriental 
dancing as a major subject throughout the course of study  
II.    Having obtained Credit pass  or above at G.C.E. (Advanced Level) for  
Oriental dancing with Bachelor of Arts General Degree or Special Degree 
with Oriental dancing as a major subject throughout the course of study 
12 Information & 
Communication 
Technology
Bachelor of Science/Management & IT/Arts/ IT General Degree or Special Degree 
with IT/Computer Science as a major subject throughout the course of study 
13 Agriculture & 
Food Technology 
Bachelor of Agriculture General Degree or Special Degree or Bachelor of Science 
General or Special Degree with Agriculture & Food Technology as a major subject 
14 Health & Physical 
Education 
I. General or Special Degree in Sport Science & Management /Physical Education
                   or   
II. General or Special Degree in Sports and Leisure Management

<!-- page 9 -->

721
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'10'20
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 20.10.2023
Sr. No. Subject Educational Qualifications
Tertiary Section 
(Grade 12-13 )
15 Accounting Special Degree in Accountancy/Accounting or Special Degree in Bachelor of Business 
Administration/Business Management/Science/Commerce with Accountancy/
Accounting as a subject throughout the course of study 
16 Business Studies Special Degree in Bachelor of Commerce/ Business Administration/Science/ Business 
Management with Subjects belong to the field of Business Studies/ Commerce  as a 
major subject 
17 Economics Special Degree in Economics
Recruitment of Graduates on Provincial basis for the class 3 Grade I (A) of  Sri Lanka Teachers’ 
Service for Sinhala, english and Tamil medium Vacancies existing in the Provincial council Schools 
of the north Western Province - 2023
Serial No. Subject Sinhala medium Tamil medium English medium
1 Primary 326 39 0
2 Science 53 2 3
3 Mathematics 57 19 2
4 Sinhala Language and Literature 21 0 0
5 Tamil Language and Literature 0 2 0
6 English 37 6 43
7 History 21 4 0
8 Geography 13 1 4
9 Oriental music 12 0 0
10 Art 24 4 0
11 Oriental dancing 12 0 0
12 Information and Communication 
Technology
23 10 3
13 Agriculture and Food Technology 14 3 0
14 Health and Physical Education 10 5 0
15 Accounting 5 1 0
16 Business Studies 3 0 1
17 Economics 4 1 0
Total 598 91 56
10-404
PRINTED   AT  THE  DEPARTMENT   OF  GOVERNMENT   PRINTING ,  SRI  LANKA .