

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1089
1089
wxl 1"661 - 2010 cQ,s ui 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'07'02
No. 1,661 – FRIDAY , JULY 02, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1092
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1093
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th July, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th June,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1090
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1091
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1092
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of  Births and Deaths
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births and Deaths Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd of August, 20 10.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
11th June, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for Address to which
Secretary’s Division which applications are called applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Birth and Deaths Medical District Secretary/Additional
Registrar of Beruwala Town in Registrar General District
Kalutara District Secretariat Kalutara
07-161
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths
TRINCOMALEE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1093
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd August, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
14th June, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for Address to which
Secretary’s Division which applications are called applications should be sent
Trincomalee Muthur Post of Registrar of Births and The District Secretary/The Additional
Deaths of Muthur Division Registrar General District
Secretariat Trincomalee
07-61
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS  REGULATORY
COMMISSION  OF  SRI  LANKA  (TRCSL)
Examination for the Issue of Amateur Radio Operator’s
License by the TRCSL
1. CATEGORIES of Amateur Radio Operator’s License :
(a) Amateur Radio Operator’s Advance Class License
(b) Amateur Radio Operator’s General Class License
(c) Amateur Radio Operator’s Novice Class License.
2. Minimum Entry Requirements.– Every candidate entering for
the examination must be fourteen (14) years of age or over on the
closing date of applications.
3. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Advance Class :- The examination consists of two parts
:
Part - 1:- Two (2) compulsory written papers to be
undertaken at one sitting.
Paper I - Advance Electrical Technology and Radio
Communications (3 hours).
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices and
Procedures (2 hours).
Part 2 :- Practical Morse Code Test(05 words per minute)
(b) General Class :- The examination consists of two parts.
Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting.
Paper I - Fundamentals of Electricity and Radio
Communications (2 hours).
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices and
Procedures (1hour).
(c) Novice Class :- The examination consists of two parts.
Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting.
Paper 1 - Basic Electricity, Radio and Electronic Theory
(2 hours) ;
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices and
Procedures (1 hour).
4. Conditions of Examinations.– The following conditions shall
apply to all categories of Amateur Radio License Examinations :
(i) To pass the examination, the candidates should pass all
papers of the examination.
(ii) Candidates must pass the two (2) written papers of the
examination at the same sitting.
(iii) Only those candidates who pass Part I of the examination
will be allowed to appear for Part 2 (Morse test) in case
of Advance class.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1094
9. Identification of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity in the examination and for this purpose any
of the following documents will be accepted :
(a) A valid Identity Card issued by the Postmaster - General ;
(b) A valid Passport ;
(c) An Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons.
All candidates are required to act in conformity with the
Provisions of the Examination Act, No.25 of 1968.
Any matters which has not been provided for under these Rules
and Regulations will be settled at the discretion of the Director-
general of Telecommunications.
Director General.
TRCSL,
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08,
07-41
5. Medium of Examination.– The examination will be conducted
in English Medium only.
6. Examination Fees.– Applicants who conform to the
requirements of the examination are required to remit the examination
fees mentioned in this notification to the "Telecommunications
Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka". If further information in
this regared is required, the applicants are requested to write to the
TRCSL.
The examination fee is payable either by a money order or a pay
order/draft from any Bank drawn in the name of the
"Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka". The
entry form must be sent by recorded delivery on registered post or
delivered by hand. Official receipts must be retained as TRCSL will
not consider any claim that form has been overlooked or lost unless
proof of posting of delivery is produced.
Fees are not refundable  or cannot be transferred from one
examination to another at a later date. Any candidate who withdraws
his application or cannot appear for the examination due to any
reason whatsoever will be required to pay approximate examination
fee for any subsequent entry.
Category of Fee for Part 1 Fee for Part 2
Examination
Advance Class 276.00 138.00
General Class 138.00 -
Novice Class 138.00 -
7. Closing date of Application .– The examination will be held
twice each year in April and October. The date of examination will
be informed by the Commissioner of Examination. Applications
must be made on the appropriate entry form obtained from the
under mentioned office, completed, and submitted to the address
given below on or before the closing date mentioned below.
Director General,
TRCSL,
276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08.
Category of License Last Date of Entry
Advance Class
General Class 30.07.2010
Novice Class
8. Attestation.– Candidate's signature must be attested by one of
the following :
A Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney-at-
Law and Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy
or Air Force, Gazetted Officer of the Police, a person holding a
permanent post in the State Service drawing a consolidated salary
of not less than Rs. 493,920 per annum. All other applications will
be rejected.
EFFICIENCY BAR  EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE – 2010(I)
01. IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants' Service
will be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations in
the month of October, 2010 as per provisions of Para 5.2 of the
approved service minue of Public Management Assistants'
Service published in the Government Gazette of the Democratic
Socialists Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1372/23 dated
24.12.2004.
3.0 This examination for officers in Class II of the Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo,
Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu,
Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla,
Ratnapura and Kilinochchi. The list of relevant towns and
town numbers are given below. The Commissioner - General
of Examinations reserves the right to cancel any center due to
insufficiency of candidates or any other reason and decide an
alternative as per the candidate's second preference of towns.
The relevant section of the application should be filled by
referring to the table of towns and town numbers given below.
It will not be allowed to change subsequently the town/towns
indicated :

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1095
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0. (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishement
imposed by the Commissioner-General of Examinations
for violation of these rules and regulations.
4.0. Eligibility.- Officers who have been appointed to posts in
Class II of Public Management Assistant’s Service are eligible to
appear for this examination.
5.0. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Applications should be sent by the
Registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department
of Examinations, Organization & Foreign Examinations
Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla , on or before 02nd August,
2010. The name of the examination should be indicated at the top
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Incomplete applications, too, will not be accepted.
6.0. Identity of the Candidates.–  Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner-General of Examinations. All candidates are bound
to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examination with regard to the conducting
of this examination. Further, candidates will be subjected to the
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for violation of those rules and regulations.
7.0. Applications.- Applcations should be prepared in a paper of
A4 size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page. The application could be typewritten but it should be
filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised not to send more than one application
or photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing the
specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make
sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
Officers appearing for the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sitings, Rs. 90
for the whole examination and Rs. 50 for only one subject should be
paid at any post-office islandwide to be credited to revenue head
20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The
receipt obtained thus should be affixed to the relevant cage of the
applications form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate. it will not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for
this examination in favour of another.
8.0. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled
the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates.  If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in
hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept
at your  possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent.
9.0. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, enabling them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0. Candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the
relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who
entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers
should be answered in the language medium of their education or in
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the language
medium of examination applied for, subsequently.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1096
11.0. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
(For further details, refer to Para. 5:2 of Public Management
Assistants’ Service Minute.).
12.0. For the purpose of the official language policy, all officers
should prepare and fill the application forms in the official language.
13.0. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will release
the results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and the lists of names of the candidates who have passed
the exam will be published in the Government Gazette of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14.0. Examination Procedure.-  Candidates should sit for a
written examination, which will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Marks Duration Subject
No.
(01) Office systems and 100 02 Hrs. 01
Procedure
(02) Accounting Systems
100 02 Hrs. 02
adopted in the
Government Offices
Total 200
14.1 Office Systems and Procedure.- This paper is intended to
test the candidate’s knowledge of office systems adopted
in Government offices and his/her ability of practical
application of the knowledge. This paper consists of two
parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple-choice questions, duration
is 30 minutes, 25 marks ;
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 03
out of 04 questions should be answered,
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.
14.2 Accounting Systems adopted in Government Offices.-
Candidate’s knowledge in Accounting Systems adopted
in Government office, books and records controlling
accounts and orders and instructions of the Treasury
issued in relation to that and his/her ability of practical
application of the knowledge will be tested. This paper
consists of two parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple-choice questions, duration
is 30 minutes, 25 marks ;
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 03
out of 04 questions should be answered,
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.
15.0. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final, in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration
& Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
  & Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
16th June, 2010.
Specimen Form of Application
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE – 2010 (I)
(As per this exam notification, only the officers in Public
Management Assistant's Service of the Combined Services shall
be eligible to forward applications)
(For office use only)
(Indicate the name and the number Town Town No.
of the town in which you wish to sit
for the examination as per Para 2.0 1.
of the Gazette notification) 2.
(This cannot be changed subsequently)
Medium of examination
Sinhala -2
Tamil -3
English -4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with Initials :————.
(In block capitals)
Eg : SILV A M. A.
1.2 Name with initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In block capitals)
1.4 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1097
2.0 Place of work and address :
2.1 Names and Addresses of the Office/Department/
Institution :————.
(In English Capital Letters)
2.2 Names and Addresses of the Office/Department/
Institution :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
:————.
(In block capitals)
3.0 Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting :
Subject Subject No.
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :————.
6.2 Number of the letter of appointment :————.
6.3 Date of entry into Class II of Public Management
Assistants’ Service :————.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––.
7.2 If not, the fee paid :————.
7.3 For affixing the receipt :
Affix the receipt securely here.
(It would be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
Note.- The candidates should affix stamps to the relevent value
and cancel them by placing their signature and date. Stamps should
not overlap each other.
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium
indicated above. The receipt obtained by paying
Rs. ...................... to a post office has been affixed hereto.
Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations of
the Examinations Act and also to the decision taken by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations regarding this
examination.
————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.
Note.- The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to sign on
behalf of such Head of Department.
A
TTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I certify that ....................................... who is an officer in my
office and who is known to me personally placed his/her signature
in my presence this ..................................... day of
..........................................., he/she has paid the relevant examination
fee and that the receipt has been affixed.
—–––––––––———,
Signature and official stamp of the
person attesting.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The particulars furnished by the candidate have been
examined ;
(ii) This officer belongs to combined services ;
(iii) The officer has *appeared/not appeared for the
examination earlier ;
(iv) *He/she has affixed the receipt obtained by paying the
relevant fee to this application form since *he/she has
appeared for the examination ; and
(v) The candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
————,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
07-174

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1098
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION  OF MINOR  EMPLOYEES   OF  THE  PUBLIC
SERVICE TO  CLASS  III  OF  THE  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE  –  2009
IT is related to the above examination notice published in the gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republci of Sri Lanka No. 1,654 of 14th
May, 2010 and the notice published in the Gazette No. 1,657 of 4th June, 2010 revising the above notice of examination.
02. No. (ii) under para 8.0 of the above examination notice and (a) and (b) of the note 3 under same para are hereby revised again
in the following manner.
"8.0 (ii) have completed a continuous, active and a satisfactory service period of 05 years immediately prior to 02.08.2010 and
the Head of Department should have certified that."
"Note - 3 (a) he/she should have earned all the increments during the five years immediately prior to 02.08.2010.
(b) he/she should not have suffered any disciplinary punishment during the five year period prior to 02.08.2010."
03. Moreover, it is hereby informed that the closing date for the applications, referred in para" 9.0-(iii)" in the notice, wil l be
extended up to 02.08.2010.
B. P. P . S. ABEYGUNARA THNA,
Director General of Combined Services.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
08th June, 2010.
07–01

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1099
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.07.2010
1100
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2010
JULY 02.07.2010 Friday — 18.06.2010 Friday 12 noon
09.07.2010 Friday –– 24.06.2010 Thursday 12 noon
16.07.2010 Friday –– 02.07.2010 Friday 12 noon
23.07.2010 Friday –– 09.07.2010 Friday 12 noon
30.07.2010 Friday –– 16.07.2010 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 06.08.2010 Friday — 23.07.2010 Friday 12 noon
13.08.2010 Friday –– 30.07.2010 Friday 12 noon
20.08.2010 Friday –– 06.08.2010 Friday 12 noon
27.08.2010 Friday –– 13.08.2010 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 03.09.2010 Friday — 20.08.2010 Friday 12 noon
09.09.2010 Thursday –– 27.08.2010 Friday 12 noon
17.09.2010 Friday –– 03.09.2010 Friday 12 noon
24.09.2010 Friday –– 09.09.2010 Thursday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.