

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'02
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.04.2013
1A
wxl 1804$13 - 2013 wfm%a,a ui 02 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2013'04'02
No. 1804/13  - TUESDAY , APRIL 02,  2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT  NO.  14  OF  2008
Notification under Section 3(2)
BY Virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act No. 14 of 2008 as
amended, I, Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, Minister of Investment Promotions, in consultation with the Minister whom the
subject of Ministry of Finance and Planning, has been assigned do by this Notification -
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesiad Act, the project to set up a refinery
to import raw sugar for refining and sale in the local market and export in the Free-Port Area of the Hambantota Port, Lanka
Sugar Refinery Company (Private) Limited (“Project Company”) entered into a Project Agreement with the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka  on 07th February 2013. The total investment of the Project is United States Dollars Two hundred and Twenty
Million (US$ 220 Mn.) such Project is in the National Interest and is likely to bring Economic and Social benefits to the
Country and further savings the foreign exchange for the Country ;
(2) Declare that the date of commencement of the Project shall be 07th February 2013 wherein the Project Agreement
between the Board of Investment and the Project Company has been executed. The implementation and commencement of
Commercial Operations of the Project shall be within Seven (07) years from the date of the said Project Agreement ;
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid Project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act No. 14
of 2008 as amended, the exemptions set out in the Schedule to this Notification shall apply to the project company.
SCHEDULE
(a) The Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006
A ten (10) year Corporate Income Tax holiday period under the Inland Revenue Act commencing from either
the first year in which the Project Company makes taxable profit or two (2) years after commencement of
Commercial Operations, whichever falls first. For avoidence of doubt, it is to be noted that the General Tax
regime applicable tax for export then prevailing shall be applicable in relation to the Project Company
implementing the Project after the expiration of the ten (10) years as setout above.
The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of withholding tax, on interest paid on foreign
loans obtained for capital expenditure and on Technical Fees paid to consultants employed in the Project.
The tax on dividend distributed to shareholders out of profits shall be exempted from income tax during the
said ten (10) years tax exemption period and one (01) year thereafter.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .04.02
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.04.2013
2A
The PAYE tax shall be exempted for a maximum number of Fifty (50) expatriate staff of the Project Company
as stipulated in the Agreement which shall be entered in to between the Project Company and the Sri Lanka
Ports Authority.
(b) The Value Added Tax Act (V AT) No. 14 of 2002
Shall not be applicable on the importation of Project related capital and construction goods and the local
purchases of Project related capital goods during the implementation period of the Project.
(c) The Port and Airport Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
Shall not be applicable on the importation of Project related capital and construction goods and the local
purchases of Project related capital goods during the implementation period of the Project.
(d) Nation Building Tax Act No. 10 of 2011
Shall not be applicable on the importation of Project related capital and construction goods and the local
purchases of Project related capital goods during the implementation period of the Project.
(e) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
(i) Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all capital goods imported in the name of the Project
Company implementing the Project in relation to items so importd solely for the purpose of the Project
other than the items mentioned in the Negative List. However the Items in the Negative List will be also
exempted from the Custom duty where such items are either not wholly produced in Sri Lanka or are
unavailable in sufficient quality, quantity and time lines for Project completion ;
(ii) All imports/local purchases of Project related capital goods required for the Project shall be exempt from
the payment of Customs Duty, provided that, the goods are consigned in the name of the Project
Company and are imported for the purpose of the implementation of the Project, the fulfillment of both
of the foregoing conditions being subject to vertification by the Board if the Board so deems fit,
Provided that this exemption shall not apply to any personal effects imported by the Project Company
for the private and personal use of any person in the Project Company, and provided that the Board
reserves the right to itself to cause or permit to be caused the examination of any imports for purposes
connected with this Agreement.
(f) Exchange Control Act and Regulations
The Provisions of Parts, I, IA, II, III, IV , V and VI of the Exchange Control Act shall not apply to or in relation
to the Project of the Project Company.
(g) Imports and Exports (Control) Act No. 1 of 1969
All imports of Project related capital and construction goods shall be exempted from customs duty as
approved by the Board for the purpose of the Project and be free from import restrictions under the Imports
and Exports (Control) Act No. 1 of 1969 as amended during the implementation period of the project referred
to in clause (7).
(h) The Project Company shall be exempted from special commodity levy on import of raw material at the point
of import.
L
AKSHMAN YAPA ABEYWARDENA, M.P.,
Minister of Investment Promotions.
Ministry of Investment Promotions,
Colombo,
27th March 2013.
04 - 446
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.