

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"060 - 2018 fmnrjdß ui 23 jeks isl=rdÞ - 2018'02'23
No. 2,060 -  FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY  23, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
    PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... 216
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
         P
AGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
215 -
N.B.—    Part IV (A) of the Gazette No.2,059 of 16.02.2018 was not published. 
 
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  16th March, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd March, 2018.
 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting). 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81255  - 5,403 (02/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.02.2018
216
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
North Western Provincial Probation and Child Care Services Department Statute No. .............of 2018 of 
the North Western Provincial Council
I do hereby notify the North Western Probation and Child Care Services Department Statute No. ...............of 2018 of North 
Western Provincial Council published hereunder will be presented in the Provincial Council of the North Western Province 
of the expiry of thirty days from the date of its publication in this 
gazette.
   Any person who wishes to make any representation regarding any of the provisions of this statute, shall forward the 
same to me within the said period of thirty days.
 L
AKSHMAN WENDARUWA,
 Minister,
 Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Social Welfare, 
 Probation & Child Care, Women’s Affairs and 
 Council  Affairs
 North Western Province.
Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Social Welfare,
  Probation & Child Care, Women’s Affairs and 
  Council  Affairs - North Western Province.
3rd Floor, Provincial Council Complex,
North Western Province Council,
Kurunegala.         
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL PROBATION AND CHILDCARE SERVICES  
STATUTE No. ……. OF ……….OF THE NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL  
A Statute to provide for the establishment of the rights of children by providing protection, guardianship, 
maintenance and welfare facilities to orphaned, destitute, and deserted children and for the maintenance 
of rehabilitation services for juvenile and youthful offenders referred by the Court and to provide for the 
matters incidental thereto or connected therewith.
 Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province as follows:- 
 01. This Statute may be cited as the North Western Provincial Probation and Childcare Services Statute 
No: .... of 20…. of the North Western Provincial Council. 
 02.    The objects of the  Statute are as follows: 
 (1) to establish the North Western Provincial Department of Probation and Childcare Services;
 
 (2) to establish and maintain the North Western Provincial Probation and Childcare Services Fund;
 
 (3)  to provide custody and care and establish the rights of orphaned, deserted or destitute and 
abused children living or likely to be orphaned, deserted destitute and abused within the  North 
Western Province;
Long title.
 Objects of the 
Statute.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –23.02.2018
217
 (4)  to take action to rehabilitate or to keep under probation the children who are charged with 
an offence and are uncontrollable or the offenders referred by the judiciary;
 
 (5)  to provide boarding facilities to orphaned, destitute, deserted,abused children and those who 
are charged with an offence for their protection and rehabilitation and to register, supervise, 
regulate and facilitate the Child Development Centers maintained on a voluntary basis or 
with a business purpose to provide daycare facilities;
 (6) to take all possible and mandatory action to protect and establish the rights of  every children 
living in the North Western Province and to prevent them from being abused; 
 
 (7) to formulate, implement and regulate standards to be maintained at all institutions in the 
North Western Province which provide childcare services; and
 (8) to establish, register and maintain one Children’s Society in each Grama Niladhari Division 
with a view to realizing the objects of the Statute. 
PART 01
 Establishment of the North Western Provincial Department of Probation and Childcare 
Services, its Composition, Powers and Functions
 03. There shall be established a Department to be called the North Western Provincial Department of 
Probation and Childcare Services (hereinafter referred to as the "Department") for the purpose of 
giving effect to provisions of this Statute.
  
04. (1)  Class I of ﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service shall be appointed to the post of 
North Western Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services to head of 
the Department established under Section 03 of this Statute (hereinafter referred to as the
‘Provincial Commissioner’). 
 (2) There shall be a staff in the Department to assist the Provincial Commissioner of Probation 
and Childcare Services,comprised of departmental of ﬁ cers, an Assistant Commissioner, 
two senior Probation Ofﬁ cers for the two Districts of Kurunegala and Putalama, a Probation 
Ofﬁ cer in-charge of each Probation Sub-ofﬁ ce established under and for the purpose of this 
Statute, Probation Ofﬁ cers and Development Of ﬁ cers covering the Divisional Secretariats 
within the area of authority of each Probation Sub-Ofﬁ ce and ofﬁ cers recruited on ad-hock  
exigency of service. 
 (3) The Provincial Commissioner may delegate the powers and functions vested in him under 
this Statute to the Departmental Assistant Commissioner, Senior Probation Ofﬁ cers, Proba-
tion Ofﬁ cers in-charge of Probation Sub-Of ﬁ ces, Probation Of ﬁ cers, and other of ﬁ cers of 
the Department to be exercised and executed. 
 (4) All of ﬁ cers appointed for the purpose of this Statute shall be deemed as Public Ofﬁ cers within 
the meaning of the Penal Code. 
Establishment 
of the North 
Western Provin-
cial Department 
of Probation 
and Childcare 
Services
North West-
ern Provincial 
Commissioner 
of Probation 
and Childcare 
Services and the 
Staff 

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.02.2018
218
  05. Functions of the North Western Provincial Department of Probation and Childcare Services shall 
be as follows:
 (1)  to register, supervise, regulate and facilitate the institutions providing protection and care for 
the orphaned, deserted, destitute and abused children; 
 (2)  to establish custody and protection of  the orphaned, deserted, destitute and abused children in 
the North Western province by providing boarding, care, education, nutrition and vocational 
training to them;
 (3)  to supervise - 
 (i)  the provision of wholesome food and drinks to the children described under Sub-section 
(1) of this Section in commensurate with their age; 
 (ii) the provision of formal and non-formal educational and vocational training  facilities 
to the children described under Sub-section (2) of this Section in commensurate with  
their age;
 (iii)  the provision of facilities relating to mental health and development of the children  
described under sub-section (1) of this Section;
 (iv) the provision of health facilities to the children described under Sub-section (1) above; 
 (v)  the provision of facilities relating to the development of creative, aesthetic and sporting 
talents of the children described under Sub-section (1) above; 
 (vi)  the provision of facilities relating to the spiritual, ethical and cultural development of 
the children described under sub-section (1) above; 
 (4)  to arrange for the recruitment of staff to V olunteer Child Development Centers to be made 
through a Board of Interview including a member nominated by the Provincial Director  when 
such recruitment is made;
 (5)  to take action to socialize children by handing over the guardianship or the custody of such 
children to the parents, legal guardians or to persons who are not legal guardians but are                 
relatives or non relatives and willing to undertake the guardianship or to adopt such children; 
 (6)  to implement and supervise the Foster- Parent programme and register ﬁ t-persons as foster-   
parents; 
 (7)   to maintain certi ﬁ ed schools under the Department to rehabilitate children convicted by the 
judiciary or uncontrollable children in terms of the provisions of this Statute or in any other 
law;
 (8)  to submit in the court the relevant reports on children convicted by the court and youthful 
offenders  under the provisions of any other law by maintaining a close supervision relating 
to various supervisory Orders such as Probation Orders, subsequent Orders, and Fit-Person 
Orders; 
 (9)  to register, supervise and regulate the daycare centers maintained within the North Western 
province to provide physical and mental protection of children between the age of 06 months 
to 05 years whose parents or guardians are unable to provide such protection during the day 
time; 
Functions of the 
Department 

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –23.02.2018
219
(10)  to provide necessary maintenance assistance and goods and equipment to daycare centers or 
institutions maintained by voluntary organizations registered under Sub-section 2(5) of this 
Statute and to provide required training to the staff of those daycare centers; 
 (11)  to maintain detention homes to provide  temporary custodianship and facilities to children 
on Court orders;
(12)  to maintain Child development centers to provide protection to pregnant girls under the age 
of 18 years and under-aged mothers and their children;
(13)  to provide nutritional and educational assistance to children who are deprived of protection, 
nutrition, and maintenance due to their being orphaned, deserted, destitute and abused and 
are not covered under any other law or Statute;
(14)  to organize and conduct awareness programmes  to safeguard rights of children and  minimize 
child abuse; 
(15)   to provide assistance under “Pilisarani” programme with a view to reverting the children 
institutionalized due to the non availability of a house for safe living back to their families 
or to preventing the destitute children from being institutionalized by retaining them within 
their own families;
(16)  to provide training and necessary facilities to engage in self-employment  in order to prevent 
destitute children from being institutionalized; 
(17)  to develop the staff and the physical resources of the institutions coming under Section 07 
of this Statute; 
(18)   to formulate and regulate standards to ensure that all the private educational institutions 
and hostels for children, religious centers that provide protection and care for children and 
other institutions established for the sake of children within the North western province are 
maintained for the utmost beneﬁ t of the children; 
(19)     to facilitate welfare activities, maintenance and educational activities for children referred by 
the judiciary for rehabilitation or children or with no custody or protection who are charged 
with offences; 
(20)   to make submissions as the guardian of the child to the court in adoption cases and to submit 
other reports to the court as directed by the court in civil proceedings relating to children;
(21)  to carry out a comprehensive investigation into complaints regarding a child abuse or molest-
ing or breach of rights of children in any of educational institutions within the north Western 
province and refer it for necessary legal action. 
06.  (1)  In the event the Provincial Commissioner or any other of ﬁ cer duly authorized by the                            
Provincial Commissioner requires the management or any other person of an institution to                 
produce information or records required for the purpose of realizing the objects and functions 
of this Statute, such management or the person shall provide such information or records to 
the Provincial Commissioner or any other ofﬁ cer authorized for the purpose. 
Powers of the 
Department 

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.02.2018
220
  (2)  The Provincial Commissioner or any of ﬁ cer duly authorized for the purpose by the Provincial 
Commissioner shall have the power to enter into any child development center and all other 
institutions providing educational, accommodation and various other services for children in 
the North Western province notwithstanding they being registered or not registered with any 
the government or provincial council institution and to conduct - 
 (a) an inspection; 
 (b)  an examination; 
 (c)  an investigation;
 (d)  a survey; or 
 (e) examine, take true copies or obtain information contained in documents, reasonably required 
for the purpose; and
 (f) do any action including take into custody of documents 
    for the purpose of this Statute.
 
PART II
Registration, Supervision and Regulation of Institutions 
providing services relating to Children
07. (1)  Child Development Centers and Daycare Centers maintained on a voluntary basis within the 
North Western Province for the purpose of execution of functions referred to in Section 05 of this 
Statute or all other institutions that are maintained with similar objective for the children and to 
provide services to children shall be registered with the North Western Provincial Department 
of Probation and Childcare Services.
  (2)   In the case of a Child Development Centre or an institution which is maintained with the 
ﬁ nancial assistance of a foreign Non-governmental organization or single branch of such 
organization or an organization of similar nature, they shall get registered with the Secretariat for the 
registration of non-governmental organizations of the Ministry of Social services of the Sri Lanka 
government prior to being registered with the North Western Provincial Department of Probation 
and Childcare Services. 
  (3)   All homes or institutions of the nature referred to in Section 7(1) and 7(2) above maintained on 
the day of coming into operation of this Statute shall be registered under this Statute. 
  (4)   All child development centers, daycare centers and institutions that provide services for children 
which are to commence operations within the North Western Province on any basis whatsoever 
for the purpose of execution of functions referred to in Section 05 of this Statute shall obtain the 
temporary registration of the North Western Provincial Department of Probation and Childcare 
Services prior to the commencement of operations.  
  (5)  All child development centers, daycare centers and institutions providing services for children 
which commence operations on the temporary registration shall within one year from the 
commencement of operations or such other period of time less than one year as speciﬁ ed by the 
Commissioner obtain the permanent registration. The Commissioner may grant the permanent 
registration to a child development center, daycare center or an institution providing services 
for children which has obtained the temporary registration under Section 7(4) above if the 
Commissioner is satisﬁ ed that such child development centre, daycare centre or an institution 
providing services to children has ful ﬁ lled the basic quali ﬁ cations and has met the minimum 
standards as may be speciﬁ ed by regulations made under Section 28 of this Statute.
Child develop-
ment centers 
and institutions 
to be registered 

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –23.02.2018
221
08. Any child development center, daycare center or an institution providing services for children 
which does not comply with the minimum standards speciﬁ ed by regulations made under Section 
29 of this Statute shall not be entitled to be registered.
09. When a Child development centre or an institution does not become eligible for the registration 
under Section 08 of this Statute, the Commissioner shall inform in writing to such child develop-
ment center or institution that the registration was rejected. 
10.  (1)  The Commissioner may cancel the registration of any child development center or institution if 
he determines that such child development centre or institution acts in contravention of objects 
of this Statute or does not comply with the standards speciﬁ ed by regulations. 
  (2)  The Commissioner shall inform the child development centre or institution of the cancellation 
of the registration in writing together with reason therefor. 
  (3)  When the Commissioner in pursuing action under Section 09 or 10(1) of this Statute becomes 
satisﬁ ed that any child development centre does not comply with the standards speci ﬁ ed by 
regulations made under Section 28 of this Statute may remove the children who receive the 
services of such child development centre.
11.     The management of any child development centre or institution which is dissatisﬁ ed by the deter-
mination of the Commissioner to reject the registration under Section 09 or cancel the registration 
under Section 10 of this Statute may within 30 days from the receipt of the notice thereof, make 
an appeal therefrom to the Minister in-charge of the subject. 
12.  (1)  The Minister may direct the Secretary to hear and determine any appeal made under Section  
 11 of this Statute. 
  (2)  The Secretary upon conducting a formal inquiry into an appeal may con ﬁ rm, revise or reject  
 the determination of the Commissioner. 
  (3)  The secretary shall deliver his decision regarding an appeal within three months from the                   
 receipt  of such appeal and the decision of the Secretary on an appeal is ﬁ nal and conclusive. 
13.  (1)     Any child development centre or institution of which registration was rejected under Section 
09 or canceled under Section 10 of this Statute shall wind up its operations within 30 days  
from such rejection or cancellation. 
  (2) Provided however that, when an appeal is made under section 11 of this Statute the winding 
up may be deferred until the determination of the appeal.
 
  (3)   When the determination of the Commissioner is con ﬁ rmed at the inquiry into the appeal  
under Section 12(2) of this Statute the child development centre or institution shall wind up  
its operations within thirty days from such decision. 
14. (1)   Every voluntary organization which is desirous to maintain a registered child development 
centre or institution under Section 07 of this Statute, shall enter into an Agreement with the 
Commissioner in respect of its child development centre or institution and the terms of the 
Agreement shall be speciﬁ ed by regulations. 
Temporary 
registration to 
be obtained 
Appeal from 
rejection or 
cancellation of 
registration 
winding up of 
child develop-
ment centers 
Regulation of 
institutions

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.02.2018
222
 (2)  The Minister or the Commissioner may issue by way of circulars or regulations instructions or 
directions or guidelines as may be deemed timely or opportune or expedient for the purpose 
of giving effect to the provisions of this Statute by the Minister or the Commissioner.  
 (3)  The management of every child development centre or institution registered for the purpose 
of this Statute shall ensure that its child development centre or institution follows or complies 
with the instructions, directions or guidelines issued under Section 14(2) of this Statute.
 PART III
North Western Provincial Childcare Services Fund
 15.  there shall be established and maintained a Fund to be called “North Western Provincial Childcare 
Services Fund” (hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”).
 
16.  (1) There shall be paid into the Fund:
 (a)  all sums of money received from the government as grants;
 (b)    any sum of money allocated by the Provincial Council by way of grant for the purpose 
of this Statute;
 (c)   all sums of money received as foreign add under Section 22 of Provincial Council Act;
 (d) all sums of money collected from concerts, lotteries and other approved means;
 (e) all sums of money and properties received as donations from any person or institution or 
organization; 
 (f) all sums of money received as interest or dividends for investments of monies of the 
Fund;
 (g) all sums of money received from courts.
  (2) All expenses incurred in the realization of objects of this Statute shall be a charge on the Fund. 
 
17 .   There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums as are required to defray any expenditure incurred 
only:
 (a)  to develop infrastructure at government Child Development Centers or voluntary child 
development centers registered with the Department; 
 (b)  to improve welfare services for the staff of government or voluntary child development 
centers, daycare centers or other institutions registered with the Department for the 
provision of services to children;
 (c)  to carry out studies, researches and training in relation to children; 
 (d) to train staffs engaged in activities relating to childcare;
 (e)  to strengthen the propaganda drive to bring the services of the Department closer to the 
public; 
 (f)  to develop infrastructure relating to protection and childhood development of the children 
at registered daycare centers; 
Establishment 
of the north 
western childcare                 
services Fund
Composition of 
the North West-
ern Childcare 
Services Fund
Paying out of 
the Fund

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –23.02.2018
223
 (g)  to produce printed documents, books, magazines and documentary ﬁ lms on the safe-
guarding of rights of children and minimizing of child abuse or admission of children 
to child development centers or on the ways and means of taking action for the utmost 
beneﬁ t of the children; 
 (h)  to implement alternate programmes and special projects to discourage application for 
admission to child development centers and to revert such children back to their families.;
 (i)  to uplift education of the children who are deprived of education due to poverty; 
 (j)  to provide ﬁ nancial assistance to an institutionalized child or to a child living in his/her 
house which cannot be covered by departmental provisions. 
18.  (1) An account shall be maintained in favour of the Fund in a State bank for the purpose of the 
Fund and all monies received to the Fund shall be deposited to the credit of the Account. 
   (2)  The monies which do not immediately require incurring expenses out of the Fund may be 
invested in a State bank or a State ﬁ nance institution.
19. The North Western Provincial Commissioner  of  Probation and Childcare Services shall be respon-
sible for the administration of the Fund. 
20. The ﬁ nancial year of the Fund shall be the calendar year.
21. The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating to the audit of accounts of public institutions 
and ﬁ nancial rules of the North Western Provincial Council shall apply to the audit of accounts of 
the Fund. 
22. The Minister shall within six months after the expiry of the calendar year table a report on the ad-
ministration of the fund in respect of the year, a copy of the audited statement of accounts for the 
year and a report of the Auditor General on the said accounts.
23. (1)  There shall be established a Board of Management to administer the Fund which shall be com-
prised of the followings appointed by the Minister in-charge of the Subject: 
 (a)  Secretary to the Ministry in-charge of the Subject;
 (b) Provincial Commissioner of Probation and childcare services; 
 (c)  Accountant of the Ministry in-charge of the Subject;
 (d) Assistant Commissioner or a senior probation Of ﬁ cer in service of the Department; 
 (e) Two members of the management of a voluntary Child Development Centre or Institution 
which maintains a registered Child development Centre in the North Western Province.
 (2)  The Secretary to the Ministry in-charge of the Subject shall be the President and the Provincial 
Commissioner shall be the Secretary of the Board of Management.
 (3)  The term of of ﬁ ce of a member appointed to the Board of Management under Section 23(1) (e) 
of this Statute shall be three (03) years from the date of appointment.   
 (4)  The membership of ﬁ ce of an ex-of ﬁ cio member shall cease upon the cessation of holding of 
the postby virtue of which he is a member of the Board of Management and the successor to 
such post shall be appointed to the vacant ofﬁ ce.
Accounts of the 
Fund
Administration 
of the Fund
Financial year of 
the Fund
Audit of ac-
counts of the 
Fund
Reports on 
accounts of the 
Fund
Appointment 
of the Board of 
Management 

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.02.2018
224
 (5)  The Minister may appoint another person referred to in Section 23(1) (e) of this Statute to hold 
such ofﬁ ce for the unexpired period of of ﬁ ce of any member who vacates or is removed from 
his ofﬁ ce.
 (6)  The term of of ﬁ ce of any member appointed to hold ofﬁ ce for the unexpired period of ofﬁ ce of 
any member resigned or removed from ofﬁ ce, shall be limited to the unexpired period of ofﬁ ce 
of the predecessor.
 (7)  The Minister is not debarred from reappointing a member who has already held of ﬁ ce for one 
term.
24 (1)   Any member appointed to the Board of Management under Section 23(1) (e) may resign from 
his ofﬁ ce on a written notice thereon to the Minister.
 (2)  The Minister shall remove any member appointed to the Board of Management under Section 
23(1) (e) if he is found to be convicted of a criminal offence by any court or found to be guilty 
of any misconduct.
 (3)   The Minister may if he not satis ﬁ ed with the performance of any member of the Board of Man-
agement remove such member at his discretion.  
25  No person who is or becomes - 
 (1)  member of Parliament, a Provincial Council or a Local Authority; or
 (2)  insane or insolvent or convicted of a criminal offence by a court;
 shall be eligible to be appointed to the Board of Management. 
26 The powers and functions of the Board of Management shall be as follows: 
  (1)    to make policy decisions on the administration of the Fund; 
  (2)  to provide instructions on matters pertaining to management, operation and implementation of 
affairs of the Fund; 
  (3)   to grant approval to incur expenses out of the Fund subject to ceilings speci ﬁ ed by the Governor 
for the purpose of implementation of duties and functions as provided for under Section 17 of 
this Statute;
  (4)   to submit to the Minister the Annual report on the management of the Fund and the audited 
annual statement of ﬁ nance. 
27  (1) The Board of Management shall meet at least once in every three months. 
  (2)   The quorum of the meetings of the Board of Management shall be three members. 
  (3)   The existence of vacancies in the Board of Management shall not hinder the conduct of meetings 
or the making of decisions at such meetings.
  (4)   The members of the Board of Management participating in meetings thereof may be remunerated 
at such rates as may be determined by the Minister on the approval of the Governor. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –23.02.2018
225
 PART IV
General
28   Where an offence under Section 30 of this Statute is committed, the Provincial Director or any 
other ofﬁ cer authorized by him shall have the power to institute action.
29  (1)  The Minister may make regulations relating to matter as may be required for the purpose
    of giving effect to provisions of this Statute. 
  (2)  Every regulation made by the Minister shall within thirty (30) days after its publication 
   in the Gazette, be brought forward before the Provincial Council for approval. 
  (3)  Any regulation which is not so approved by the Provincial Council shall be deemed to 
   be rescinded as from the date of disapproval but without prejudices to anything 
   previously made thereunder. 
  (4)  A notification of the date on which any such regulation is deemed rescinded shall be 
published in the Gazette.
 PART V
Offences and Penalties 
30  Any person who - 
  (1)   knowingly make any false or incorrect statement on any report or any other document made 
or furnished under any provisions of this Statute or any regulation made thereunder; 
  (2)  fails or refuses to furnish any  information or report required under this Statute; 
  (3) fails or neglects to comply with the orders or guidelines or directions of the Commissioner of 
Probation and Childcare Services without a reasonable cause; 
  (4)  impedes or obstructs any person from exercising, executing or carrying out powers, duties or 
functions vested in or assigned to such person by or under this Statute or any regulation made 
thereunder;
  (5)  breaches, or deliberately neglects to comply with and/or deliberately impedes any provision 
or regulation made under this Statute or any regulation made thereunder;
  shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute.
31 Where an offence under this Statute is committed, the Provincial Commissioner of Probation and 
Childcare Services or any other ofﬁ cer authorized by him shall have the power to institute action.
32 Any person who commits an offence under Section 30 of this Statute shall on conviction after sum-
mery trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a ﬁ ne not less than rupees ten thousand (Rs.10,000) and 
not exceeding rupees hundred thousand (Rs.100,000) or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 
06 months or to both such ﬁ ne and imprisonment. 
33 The provisions of the Provincial Council Act No.42 of 1987 shall apply to the allocation and incur-
ring expenses for the maintenance of institutions established under this Statute. 
power to insti-
tute action
Regulations
Offences
Penalties

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.02.2018
226
 PART VI
Interpretation 
34    In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires:-
  “abduction” caries the same meaning as de ﬁ ned in the Penal Code (Chapter 15);
   “abuse” carries the same meaning as de ﬁ ned in -
 (a)   the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1995;
 (b) the provisions relating to employment of children of the Employment of Women, Young 
Persons, and Children Act No.22 of 1995; 
 (c) any provision of the Children and Young Persons Ordinance;
 (d)  any provisions of the Compulsory Education Regulations No. 01 of 1997;
 “centre for child mothers and pregnant children below the age of 18 years” means a centre established 
under Subsection 4(11) of this Statute,  “Certi ﬁ ed School” means a centre established under 
Subsection 4(6) of this Statute; 
“child” means any person male or female below the age of 18 years,  “Child Development Centre” 
means any institution or child development centre which receives and provides protection and 
care for orphaned, deserted, destitute and abused children maintained by registered voluntary 
organizations and any institution or development centre which receives and provides protection 
and care for orphaned, deserted, destitute and abused children and pregnant girls, and child 
mothers maintained by registered voluntary organizations;  
 
“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services appointed to the 
North Western Provincial Department of Probation and Childcare Services under Section 4(1) 
of this Statute; 
 “daycare centre” means an institution which has facilities to provide protection and care for children 
between the age of 06 months and 05 years whose parents/guardians are incapable of providing 
protection during the day time; 
 “deserted” when applied to a legitimate child means a child, deserted by both parents or by one par-
ent, the other being dead or incapable of acting as a parent or a child both of whose parents are 
incapable of acting as parents and when applied to an illegitimate child, means a child deserted 
by his/her mother or a child whose mother is incapable of acting as a parent; and  when applied 
to a child whose guardianship has been vested in another person on a court order, means a child 
deserted by the guardian concerned; 
“destitute” means a child whose parents receive public assistance from a Government Department or 
from a Local Authority or one of whose  parents is incapable of engaging in any employment 
due to illness established on a medical certiﬁ cate, the other is having no stable income or a child 
one of whose parents is adjudged as mentally ill on a medical certi ﬁ cate, the other is having 
no stable income or a child whose parents are separated and the mother or father who hold the 
guardianship of the child on a court order or otherwise is having no stable income or a child 
whose parents do not receive  any assistance but are recommended by the Grama Niladhari or 
the  Probation Ofﬁ cer to receive such assistance;

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2018'02'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –23.02.2018
227
 “ﬁ nance institution” means a licensed institution to receive cash deposits which is a 100% govern-
ment shareholding;
 “Fund”  means the Fund established under Section 15 of this Statute;
“Governor” means the Governor of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Minister” means the Minister in-charge of the subject of Probation and Childcare Services of the 
Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
 “orphan” when applied to a legitimate child means a child, both of whose parents are dead, or one 
of whose parents is dead, the other being incapable of acting as a parent; and when applied to 
an illegitimate child, means a child whose mother is dead or incapable of acting as a parent, 
 “Probation Ofﬁ cer” means -
(a)  an ofﬁ cer appointed under Section 17 of Probation of Offenders Ordinance No. 42 of 1944;
(b)  a voluntary probation ofﬁ cer appointed under Section 17(2);
“Provincial Receiving Child Development Centres “ means an institution maintained by the Depart-
ment of Probation and Childcare Services to provide protection and care for orphaned, deserted, 
destitute and abused children under the age of 05 years; 
“Protected Home” means a Child Development Centre established under Subsection 4(10) of this 
Statute; 
 
 “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Ministry in-charge of the subject of Probation and Childcare 
Services of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province; 
“State Bank” means the Peoples’ Bank, Bank Of Ceylon, and National Savings Bank;
 “voluntary organization” carries the same meaning as de ﬁ ned in the V oluntary Social Service                
Organizations (Registration and Supervision) Act No. 31 of 1980. 
35 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
02-610
Sinhala text to 
prevail in case of 
inconsistency.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.