

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1353
1353
wxl 1"767 - 2012 cQ,s 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'07'13
No. 1,767 – FRIDAY , JULY 13, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1356
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1357
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd August, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th July,
2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1354
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1355
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1356
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th August, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
20th June, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Passara Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kanyan) of Yatikinda Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Debedda Division Badulla.
07–273
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1357
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 13th August, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
28th June, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/ Additional
and Deaths for Wellawatta Division Registrar General, District
Secretariat Dam Street,  Colombo 12.
Colombo Sri Jayawardhanapura Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/ Additional
Kotte (General) of Kotte North Area Registrar General, District
in Colombo Division Secretariat Dam Street, Colombo 12.
Colombo Homagama Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/ Additional
(General) of Salpiti Koralaya Registrar General, District
and Births and Deaths of Secretariat Dam Street,
Mattegoda Division Colombo 12.
07–436
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
SRI  LANKA  AYURVEDIC  MEDICAL  SERVICE
Efficiency Bar Examination for - 2012
IT is hereby notify that an Efficiency Bar Examination for Ayurvedic
Medical Service (For Ayurvedic Medical Officers) will be held in
Colombo by the Department of Ayurveda.
01. Candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed
by the commissioner of Ayurveda.
02. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appendix to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Application should be sent by those
who are qualified according to the service minute of the Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service, by the registered post through the
respective heads of institution to reach the "Registrar, Examination
Division, Department of Ayurveda, Navinna, Maharagama on or
before 10.08.2012 "Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service - 2012" should be indicated at the top
hand corner of the envelope containing the application. Applications
received after the closing date will be rejected.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not to pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 200 should be affixed for the whole examinations for subsequent
sittings and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 per subject should be
affixed if not applying for the whole examination. The stamp should
be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the date.
Under any circumstance the fees will not be refunded of transferred.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1358
03. Identity of the candidates .- Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by Department of
Registrar of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport.
04. The Commissioner, Department of Ayurveda will issue the
timetable and admission card to all candidates whose applications
have been accepted candidates should get their signature on the
admission card attested in advance and submit to the supervisor of
the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not
be permitted to sit for the examination. If a candidate has not
received his/her admission card at least seven days (07) before the
day of examination. He/She should without delay inform the
"Rejistrar Examination Division, Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna, Maharagama" about the non-receipt of admission cards
along with the following information.
(i) Name of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Full name of the candidate :––––––––––.
(iii) Postal Address :––––––––––.
(iv) Post Office, Registration Number and Date of dispatch
:––––––––––.
05. Scheme of Examination.– (According to the service minute
of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Serivce).
(I) Financial Regulation - One paper based on the following:
(i) Financial Regulation of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka Part I (Except Chapter X).
(II) Establishment Code – One paper based on the following  :
(i) Chapters - I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIII, XIV ,
XXIII, XXVII, XXIX, XXX, XXXII of the V olume I
of the Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka ; and
(ii) Chapters - XLVII and XLVIII of Part II of the
Establishments Code of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
(III) Hospital Administration - One paper based on the
following :
(i) General rules and regulations relevant to the hospitals ;
(ii) Cleanliness in hospital ;
(iii) Rules and Regulations relevant to the patients ;
(iv) Supply proper meals to the patients ;
(v) Administration of drug manufactures ;
(vi) Rules and Regulations regarding the admission of
patients ;
(vii) Knowledge of the duties of all the employees in the
hospitals ;
(viii) General administration in hospitals ;
(ix) General administration of the Department of
Ayurveda ;
(x) Regulation of the stores accounts of the Department
of Ayurveda.
(xi) Manual of procedure of the Deapartment of Ayurveda.
(IV) Official Languages - Oral test. Sinhala/Tamil (15 minutes):
(i) For officers who joined the service in Sinhala medium :
(a) Answering the Tamil questions in Tamil Language.
(b) Translate Tamil sentences to Sinhala Language.
(c) Translate Sinhala sentences to Tamil Language.
(ii) For officers who joined the service in Tamil medium :
(a) Answering the Sinhala questions in Sinhala Language.
(b) Translate Sinhala sentences to Tamil Language.
(c) Translate Tamil sentences to Sinhala Language.
Note.– Candidate must obtain 40 marks to pass in each subject.
P. S. K. R. W
EERAKOON,
Commissioner of Ayurveda,
Department of Ayurveda.
Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna,
Maharagama,
June, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
E
FFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR SRI LANKA AYURVEDIC
MEDICAL SERVICE – 2012
Index No. :
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
Sinhala – S    Tamil – T
01. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
04. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil letters)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute (In English
capital letters) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1359
EXAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION  OF  OFFICERS
IN CLASS II OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS’  SERVICE
TO CLASS I  – 2011
IT is hereby notified that the qualifying examination for promotion
of officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants’ Service to
Class I will be held in the three language, i. e. Sinhala, Tamil and
English by the Commissioner General of Examination in October,
2012.
2.0  Examination for promotion of officers in Class II of Public
Management Assistants' Service to Class I will be held at the centers
in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu,
Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla,
Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The towns and their numbers are given
below :
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
Any center without a sufficient number of candidates will be
cancelled. It will not be allowed to change the “town” indicated in
the application form subsequently.
07. Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute - (In
Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
08. (i) Post :–––––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the letter of appointment :–––––.
09. Subject you offer :
Number Subject Subject No.
10. Have you been passed examination in previous sittings, any of
the following subjects, financial Regulations/Establishment
Code/Hospital Management/Oral Examination Tamil/Sinhala).
If, so, index No. and Date :–––––––––––.
Subject Index No. Y ear
11. Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :––––––––.
If not, value of the stamps affixed :–––––––––––.
Stamp cage :
Stamp to the value of Rs. 200 whole examination and
Rs. 50 for each subject.
Note.– The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant value and
cancel them by placing their signature and date, stamps should
not overlap each other.
I declare that the above particulars are true that I am eligible to
appear for the examination, in the language medium indicated above.
I also certify that the Rs. ............... stamps affixed here to are
genuine and have not been used before. I agree to abide by the rules
and regulations of this examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– The  candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department/Institute or an officer authorized to sign on
behalf of such Head of the Department.
Attestation of the Signature
I do hereby certify that ....................... who forward this
application is an officer attach to my office/known to me personally
and that he/she placed his/her signature before me on .................
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
07–277
–––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1360
Establishment Procedure. – A practical knowledge on matters
contained in V olume I and II of the Establishments Code is expected
of the candidate. This paper consists of two parts.
Part I - 08 questions that require short answers  (25 marks)
Part II - Answers should be supplied to 03 out
of 04 semi-structured type questions (75 marks)
Public Finance Management.– The objective of this paper is to
test the following. It consists of two parts :
(a) Practical knowledge on financial regulations ;
(b) Basic knowledge on auditing ;
(c) Basic bank practice ;
(d) Basic knowledge on store keeping.
Part I - 08 questions that require short answers (25 marks)
Part II - Answers should be supplied to 03 out
of 04 semi-structured type questions (75 marks)
Case Study – Candidates are required to answer a multiple
choice, short answers and semi-structured essay type paper designed
to analyze measures to be taken to a problem relating to office
administration. Cases for study will be provided and the questions
to be answered will be as follows :
Part I - 05 multiple choice type questions (05 marks)
Part II - 05 questions that require short
answers
(05 marks)
Part III - 05 semi-structured type questions (90 marks)
General Paper.– The objective of this paper is to test the General
knowledge of the candidates on current affairs, both local and
international. The paper consists of three parts.
Part I - 32 multiple choice type questions (16 marks)
Part II - Short notes should be provided under (36 marks)
two topics out of the four (04) given
Part III - Answers should be provided for 02 (48 marks)
essay type questions out of the
four (04) given
Note :–
(i) Candidates should answer these papers in the language
medium of entry to the service or any other official
language.
(ii) Candidate should score a minimum of 40 percent
(40%) of marks in each subject and an aggregate of
160 or more to pass the examination.
3.0 (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates are bound by
the rules and regulations stipulated by him in respect
of holding this examination. Issuance of an admission
card to a candidate should not be regarded as an
acceptance of his/her eligibility to sit the examination.
(ii) A set of rules and regulations for the candidates is
published separately in the gazette notification. Any
candidate who violates these rules and regulations will
be liable to a punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
(iii) The decision of the Commissioner General of
Examinations shall be the final decision regarding holding
examination and issuance of results.
(iv) The post and service station of the candidate, at the
time he/she applies for the examination will be
applicable for all matters relating to examination and
any changes which occur in the past and service station
after sending the application will not be considered.
4.0 Candidates are required to satisfy following qualifications
to sit the examination :
(i) Should be an officer who has completed an active service
of ten years (10) in Class II of Public Management
Assistants’ Service and a satisfactory service of five (05)
years as at the closing date of applications.
(ii) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination held
for officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants’
Service.
Note.– The date of examination will be reckoned as the date
on which the successful candidates qualify for promotion
to Class I of the service. However, any candidate who
passes the examination without possessing above
qualifications will be treated an ineligible for promotion
to Class I.
5.0 Scheme of Examination. – Candidates should sit a written
examination consisting of the following subjects :
Subjects Marks Duration
(i) Establishments Procedure 100 1 1/2 hours
(ii) Public Finance Management 100 1 1/2 hours
(iii) Case Study 100 1 hour
(iv) General Paper
100 1 hour
Total 400

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1361
6.0 Commissioner General of Examinations will issue results of
the examination to the Director General of Combined Services and
the names of successful candidates will be published in the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
7.0 Applications should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared by the
candidate him/herself. Application prepared thus by the candidate
should be sent through the respective Head of Department by
registered post to the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka
Examinations Department, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, so as to reach
him/her on or before 13th August, 2012. A certificate to prove the
satisfactory service of the officer should be sent along with the
application. The respective Head of Department should satisfy
him/herself that the application has been perfected accurately and
the service certificate has been duly signed by him/herself. The
top-left corner of the envelope containing the application should
clearly bear the name of the examination. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected.
8.0 Identification of Candidates .– Candidates are required to
prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor of each subject they appear. For this purpose,any  one
of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
Candidature of any candidate who fails to submit any one of the
above, can be cancelled by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, at his discretion.
9.0 Applications.– Application form should be prepared on a
paper of “A4” size in such a way that headings number 1.1 to 1.9
appear on the first page Application form may be typewritten but
should be filled clearly and legibly by the candidate himself in his
own handwriting. It is compulsory to indicate the title of the
examination appearing the specimen in English language, too, on
both Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that
have not been perfected properly will be rejected without notice. It
is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the
application form perfected by him/herself complies with the
specimen given in the examination notice and further it would be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
Candidates who are sitting this examination for the first time
need not to pay examination fees. However, at consequent sittings,
candidates are requried to paste stamps to the value of Rs. 400 on
the application for each sitting and to cancel them duly by placing
signature and date. This should be paid at any District/Divisional
Secretariats in the island to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13
of Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt should be
affixed in the relevant cage. It would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt. Under no circumstances, this fee will be
refunded or transferred in respect of another examination.
The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies
of the time table and admission cards for the examination to all
candidates who have sent in duly completed applications before
the closing of applications. Candidates should get their signature
on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without admission
cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification
will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations
as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations : i. e.– photocopies of the application,
receipt of the paid examinations fees and the receipt of the registered
letter. Receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request, furnishing a fax number to which the
admission cards should be sent.
10.0  Heads of Departments should grant duty leave to candidates
to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations enabling them to present themselves at
the examination. Traveling expenses will not be paid in this respect.
11.0 For the purpose of the official languages policy, all the
candidates are required to prepare and perfect their own applications
in the official language.
12.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final in respect of any matter not provided for in this
examination notice.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARA THNE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
27th June, 2012.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1362
Specimen  Application  Form
    (For office use only)
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE TO CLASS I -  2011
Town Town No.
(Indicate the town and the corresponding No. in which you
intend to sit the examination, as per para 2.0 of the gazette
notification).
Language Medium of examination:
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage. It will not be allowed to
change this subsequently).
1.0 1.1 Name with Initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) Eg: SUNIL, A.B.
1.2 Name with Initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.4 Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.5 Have you changed your name after entering the Public
Service ? If so, indicate the previous name :–––––––––.
1.6 Place of work and Address :
1.6.1 Name and the address of Office/Department/
Institution :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.6.2 Name and the address of Office/Department/
Institute :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.7 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant nubmer in the cage.)
1.8 Date of Birth :
Year :        Month :      Date :
1.9 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 Present Post :
2.1 Post :–––––––––––.
2.2 Number and the date of the appointment letter :–––––.
2.3 Date of entry to class II of above service :
Year :        Month :      Date :
2.4 Have you earned all increments duritng the period of
your service ? If not, give particulars :–––––––––––.
2.5 If you have suffered any punishment whatsoever, state
particulars in brief :–––––––––––.
2.6 If you have been released for service in a corporation or
any statutory Board, furnish such particulars :––––––.
2.7 If you have availed yourself of no pay leave for
employment abroad or any other purpose, furnishe such
particulars :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ?
:–––––––––––.
3.2 If not, value of the cash receipt (affixed) :–––––––––––.
Stamp Cage :
If you are not sitting the examination for the first time,
affix the cash receipt of Rs. 400, paid as the
examination fee.
4.0  Declaration of candidate :
I do hereby declare that,
(i) The above particulars furnished by me are true and correct
to my knowledge and faith and,
(ii) I am an officer in class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service and I have been appointed to Class II of Public
Management Assistants' Service on ................ and,
(iii) I have completed a 10 years active period of service as at
13th August, 2012 and 5 years satisfactory period of the
service on that date and,
(iv) I am sitting the examination for the first time/cash receipt
has been affixed.
I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false and incorrect, I am liable to disciplinary action
taken against me. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1363
imposed by the commissioner General of Examination on conducting
of this examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate
(See the footnote).
Date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– 1. Period of service in class II/II "A" of General
Clerical Service or its parallel Services before
absorption to the Public Management Assistants'
Service should be taken into account when
computing the period of service in class II of Public
Management Assistants' Service.
2. The applicant should place his/her signature in the
presence of the relevant Head of Department or an
officer authorized to do so on behalf of him.
ATTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who
serves at my office is personally known to me and that he/she
signed in my presence on.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the person attesting
and official frank.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) Mr.Mrs./Miss ............................ has completed a 10 years
period in class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service as at 13th August, 2012 and ;
(ii) He/she is eligible to sit the examination as per the
notification published in the Gazette of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated .................
(iii) Number of the appointment letter of class II is
..................... (indicate number of the appointment letter)
as per his/her personal file and ;
(iv) The particulars furnished by him/her in chapters 1.0 and
4.0 above, have been checked and found to be correct
and ;
(v) He/she is sitting the examination for the first time/cash
receipt of the fees for the relevant examination has been
affixed.
*(Delete words inapplicable)
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Department
and official frank
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
07–374
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment of the students for the training of the
Professions Supplementary to Medicine and Para Medical
Services – 2012
THIS is a revision to the Gazette Notification of Democratic Socialist
Repubilc of Sri Lanka No. 1,762 dated 08.06.2012 published by
the Secretary to the Ministry of Health.
01. Closing date for receiving the applications will be extended
up to 27.07.2012.
02. The student Training Courses that are mentioned as code
numbers in the relevant Gazette Notification will be applied for the
professions Supplementary to Medicine and Para Medical Services
as follows.
THE PROFESSIONS SUPPLEMENTARY TO MEDICINE
Code Name of the T raining Course
No.
1 Medical Laboratory Technologist
2 Physiotherapist
3 Occupational Therapist
4 Radiographer
10 Pharmacist
PARA MEDICAL SERVICES
Code Name of the T raining Course
No.
5 Public Health Inspector
6 Public Health Midwife
7 Elector Cardio Grapher
8 Elector Encephalo Grapher
9 Public Health Laboratory Technician

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
1364
11 Ophthalmic Technician
12 Dental Technician
13 Entomological Assistant
14 School Dental Therapist
03. "It is compulsory to serve in the Province where first
appointment is granted until completion of 10 years from the first
appointment date" should be applied for "It is compulsory that
serving in the service station where the first appointment is granted
for 10 years from the first appointment". In the 13th Sentence.
* Also the following section should be included as 13(1) :
The grade 3 salary scales will be relevant for the recruitment
posts.
Those salary scales are given below.
The salary scales will be different in accordance with the
promotional steps.
* For the Professions Supplementary to Medicine had been
mentioned as Code No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 10 and for the Paramedical
Services had been mentioned as Code No. 11, 12, 13, 14 :
Grade - Rs. 15,440 - 5 x 180 - 5 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360
= Rs. 28,260.
Code Name of the Training Course
No.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
* For the Paramedical Services ahd been mentioned as Code
No. 5, 6 :
Grade - Rs. 15,260 - 6 x 180 - 4 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20x 360 =
Rs. 28,260.
*For the Paramedical Services had been mentioned as Code
No. 7, 8, 9 :
Grade - Rs. 15,080 - 7 x 180 - 3 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 =
Rs. 27,780.
The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Health will be the
final decision if there is any arisen fact that is not covered from this
Gazette Notification.
Dr. R
A VINDRA RUBERU,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
The date of June, 2012.
07–459