

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1713$15 - 2011 cQ,s 07 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2011'07'07
No. 1713/15 - TUESDAY ,   JULY   07,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
UV A     PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Statute of “Industrial  Development  of Uva Province” of No. 09 of 2011 of the Uva Provincial Council
THE above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 26th May, 2011, has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 16th of June, 2011 and which is hereby published for the
notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA,
Secretary,
Uva Provincial Council.
23rd of June, 2011,
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
King Street,
Badulla,
Industrial Development precept No.  09 of  2011  of  Uva provincial council
The precept to supply rules and regulations and implement them for the development” promotion and
supervision of textile industry, small industry, cottage industry and micro industry” operated in the Uva
province.
Uva provincial council of Democratic socialist republic of sri lanka declare thus
1. This precept is called as the precept No. 09 of 2011" to develop and promote the industries
within Uva province and would be empowered from the date of the approval of Hon. Governor
of Uva province.
2. The aims of this precept would be as follows
Full Name
Brief name and
date of
empower
The aims
3 - PG  001265

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2011
2A
(1) To make Uva province an attractive province for industries, by developing new industries,
by developing further the industries already in operation in Uva province and  establishing
new industries and enabling their profits to reach maximums.
(2) To increase employment opportunities in the province to avoid poverty along with uplifting
the living conditions of employees of the industrial field and uplifting the output rate of
industries while increasing the share to the national economy.
3) To encourage establishment of new micro, small and middle level industries and difusion
of small industries while giving priority to protect hereditary industries of Uva province.
4) To register all textile industries, small industries, light engineering industries, ornamental
and light toys industries, artistic productions industries and cottage industries, at provincial
department and issue certificates of registration, in whatever conditions they are running
at present.
5) To output a vocational trained youth by recruitment of suitable youth of the area, for
vocational training at production centres of wood work, textiles, light engineering and
pottery, coir, eakle and cane productions under the department of industrial development.
6) To identify the current necessities for vocational training of the area and design vocational
training courses accordingly, and supply the youth of the area a formal training in various
fields,
3. To fulfill the aims of precept, the Governor of Uva province may appoint suitable and capable
officers, to the institute already established as the department of industrial development (which
will be called as “the department”  hereupon) to carryout the following duties.
(1) The director of industries, who will be called as “the director” hereupon’ will be the head
of the department, which was established per section 03. He/she ought to be an officer of
class I of Sri Lanka administrative service and would be appointed by the Governor of Uva
province. To assist him/her an officer belongs to class II of SLAS and an officer of class III
of SLAS would be appointed by the Governor as the deputy director and the asst. director
respectively.
(2) The director may entrust any of his/her powers, duties, or any other means of power or
duty assigned to him/her under this precept, to the deputy / assistant director of industries
or any other responsible officer.
(3) The rules and regulations of provincial council Act No. 42 of 1987 and the powers issuing
by the Governor of uva province and the public services commission of Uva province
would be relevant in appointing the staff of the Department transferring and promoting
them and in controlling their discipline.
(4) The Minister is empowered to issue orders to implement the rules and regulations declared
under this precept.
(5) When an appeal is made against any order or decision made by the director of industries,
the secretary is entitled under this precept, to change those orders or decisions as his/her
wish.  In every such occasion the secretary’s decision would be the final.
Establishment
of industrial
development
department
Powers of the
director
Director of
industries and
the staff
Secretary's
Powers
Ministry’s
Powers

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2011
4. The duties and responsibilities of the department would be as follows -
(1) Development of skilful energy relevant to the industrial field.
(2) Development of micro, small and middle level industries.
(3) Development of hereditary industries
(4) Re erect the infected industries.
(5) Development of infrastructure relevant for the development of industries.
(6) Development of technology relevant to the industrial field.
(7) Institutional development relevant to the industrial field.
(8) To design and implement industrial friendly rules and regulations.
(9) Development of out put of the industrial field.
(10) To be the coordinator in supplying industrial financial facilities.
(11) To carryout training and research relevant to the industrial field.
(12) Development of marketing relevant to the industrial field.
(13) Promotion of interlink between state and private sector of the industrial field.
(14) Promoting of export, relevant to the industrial field
(15) Name the centres prevailing under the department ,so as to fulfill the aims and to match the
current situations, as Human and economical development centres (textile, woodwork,
light industry/pottery /coir and eakle) and implement creative programme
5. The powers needed to fulfil the aims of  the department  under this precept ,and to carryout the
work entrusted to it ,should belong to the  department  under limits of written law.
6. The director is entitled to apply for the staff needed by and by accordingly to the needful of the
department.
7. The advisory board of the provincial, Industrial Development Department:
(1) The Minister should appoint an advisory board to counsel the minister for the benefit of
the Development of industries of Uva province, which will contain 11 members.
(2) This advisory board shall contain with the following persons.
(i) The secretary of the Ministry of Industries of Uva province.
(ii) The  provincial Director of industries
(iii) Two individuals who are industrial friendly, named by the Minister
Powers of the
Department
Advice board of
the Department
Duties of the
Department.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2011
4A
(iv) The co -ordinating officer of  Uva province of National crafts council
(v) The chairman of Uva provincial Economic and Industrial Board.
(vi) Instructor from each government technical college of  Badulla and  Monaragela
Districts.
(vii) The chairman of Uva provincial crafts council.
(viii) A lecturer from entrepreneurship promoting section of Uva Wellassa University.
(ix) One member from state banks of Uva province.
(3) Officially, the Chairman of this  advisory board would be the secretary of Uva provincial
industrial Ministry.
(4) The director of Industries would be the secretary of this  advisory board officially.
(5) The membership  period would be for three years.
(6) The membership period would be concluded due to resignation ,death ,end of period or
removal by the Minister.
(7) The Members may reappointed after their period  is over.
(8) The  quorum of a meeting should be seven.
(9) It is entitled to form district industrial development committees, divisional industrial
development committees and industrial development centre committees, in connection
with this advisory board.
(10) It is the duty of the advisory board to forward suitable observation, prescription and
advice to the  Hon. Minister in charge of the subject of  industries and to development.
(11) The advisory board  should meet at least once a month.
8 The provincial department of industrial development is an institute subtitled in accordance with
the  bribery act and should be strictly relevant to the rules and regulations  at that Act.
9. All officers and staff of provincial industrial development department shall be considered as
public servants in accordance with the code of penal.
PART  -   02
Offences and Penalties
10. Any person guilty for breaking or ignoring  any rule  or regulation or order  made under this
precept or entered in this precept or disturbing any person who is engaged to carryout the matters
of the precept ,would be an offender under this precept.
11. All offences made under the rules and regulation of this precept  would be considered under the
prevailing common law of the country and shall be liable for punishments and ordered under that
law.
Duties of the
advisory board
Considered as
public servants
Offences
penalties

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2011
PART   03
12. Common regulations
(1) It should be considered that all asset provided to the institutes of the province ,belong to
the department ,would be considered  as the asset ensigned to the  Provincial  Industrial
Development Department from the date prior to the date of implementation  of this precept,
under it’s rules and regulations.
(2) Except below section (3), the buildings and land of training, marketing and service centres
should not be used for other purposes.
(3) When it is needed to occupy these institutes for other important matters, the prior approval
of the secretary should be obtained with the consent of the Director of industries.
13.
(1) The regulations of the Provincial Council Act No .42 of 1987 would be relevant in providing
and spending of financial facilities for maintaining the institutes established under this
precept.
(2) The capital and continuous allocations needed to  carryout main duties of the provincial
department  would be allocated from the annual budget of  the  Uva Provincial Council.
(3) Middle period funds should be obtained in harmony with the central ministry ,to organize
the relevant subjects within the province.
(4) Income gained by organizing annual  exhibition, bazaars, fairs etc. would be deposited in
the provincial director Account.
(5) The funds donated by nongovernment organizations interested in uplifting the living
conditions of the people engaged in the rural industrial field, would be obtained for the
relevant fields.
(6) The department would be taking necessary steps to obtain material and to carryout projects
introduced through non government organizations.
(7) There should be no obstacle in obtaining foreign financial and material aid for work of the
department under written regulations.
14. Calendar year would be the financial year,(i.e from January 1st to 31st  December)
15. The director should forward an annual management report to the Minister with the consent of
the provincial secretary of industries ,including the steps taken to develop industries, within the
province, problems arose and the steps taken to solve them ,within two months of the following
year
16. The Minister is entitled to issue written special or normal orders regarding implementing the
powers of the department and the department should carry out them.
17.
(1) Every order formed by the Minister should be published in the Gazette and would be
implement from the date of published or from a date given in it.
Asset of the
department
Needed financial
aid for
operations.
Financial year
Management
reports
Powers of the
Minister to issue
orders

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2011
6A
(2) The orders published in Gazette should be forwarded to the  Provincial Council for approval
at the earliest. If any order is disapproved, it should be considered as amended from the
date of disapproved, without damaging prior work done under it.
3) The date of ,any order amended  thus ,should be republished in the  Gazette.
18. Auditing would be done in accordance with section 23 of the Provincial Council Act No. 42 of
1987
19. Unless another expression is needed, the words used in this precept should be understood as
thus:
(1) The Minister  - The provincial minister in charge of the subject of industries and textiles of
Uva Province.
(2) Secretary of the ministry - The secretary in charge of the subject of industries and textiles
of the Ministry of Uva Province.
(3) The Director - The director in charge of the subject of industries and textiles of Uva
Province.
(4) Deputy Director- Deputy director in charge of the subject of industries and textiles of Uva
Province.
(5) Assistant  Director-The assistant  director in charge of the subject of industries and
textiles of Uva Province.
20. If  any  Complication is risen among  the  Sinhala and  English  words or phareses used in this
precept ,the  Sinhala version should be accepted.
07-539
The meaning of
words
The Auditing
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.