

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1543
1543
wxl 1"926 - 2015 cQ,s ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'07'30
No. 1,926 – THURSDAY , JULY 30, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1546
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1556
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 21st August, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
August,  2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.—  Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,925 of  24.07.2015 was not published.
Note.—  Trincomalee, Pankulama Morawewa South Sirigajabaa Gal Len Rajamaha Vihaarastha Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 12, 2015.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1544
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1545
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1546
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th August, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
09th of July, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Dompe Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Addi tional Registrar
of Siyane Korale East and Births and General, District Secretariat,
Deaths of Dompe Division Gampaha.
07–1368
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1547
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th August, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
09th of July, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Wattala Post of Muslim Registrar of Marriages D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Aluthakuru Koralaya South General, District Secretariat,
Division in Wattala-Mabola Area Gampaha.
07–1367
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1548
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 30th August, 2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
14th July, 2015.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Panwila Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Addi tional Registrar
Panwila Division and Post of Marriage General, District Secretariat,
Registrar of Panwila Divisional Kandy.
Secretariat Area (Kandyan/General)
Kandy Pathadumbara Post of Births and Deaths Registrar District Secretary/Addi tional Registrar
Udagampaha East and West Division General, District Secretariat,
and Post of Marriages Registrar Kandy.
(Kandyan/General) of Pathadumbara
Divisional Secretariat Area.
07–1497
–––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1549
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 30th August, 2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
14th July, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla W elimada Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
Division General, District Secretariat,
Badulla.
07–1496
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th August, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
08th July, 2015.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1550
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Kekirawa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Addi tional Registrar
in Kekirawa and Tibbatuwewa Area of General, District Secretariat,
Kalagam Palatha Division Anuradhapura.
Anuradhapura Galnewa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Addi tional Registrar
in Negampaha Area of Kalagam General, District Secretariat,
Palatha Division Anuradhapura.
07–1366
––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  PORTS  AND  SHIPPING
Directorate of Merchant Shipping
RECRUITMENT TO THE VACANCIES IN THE FOLLOWING POSTS
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who possess qualifications for recruitment to the vacant Posts in the
Directorate of Merchant Shipping of the Ministry of Ports and Shipping :
1. Vacant Post :
Designation Recruitment Grade Number of Posts
Assistant Shipping Officer Grade III 03
2. Qualifications and Experience :
Educational Qualifications Experience
A degree in Science, Commerce, Economics, Management or The experience in the field Naval will be treated as
Law from a University recognized by the University additional/special qualification
Grants Commission
(a) Physical Fitness .– Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to perform duties of the post and to serve
at any part of Sri Lanka. Selected applicants will be subject to a medical examination.
(b) Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be Sri Lankan citizens ;
(ii) Applicants should be of excellent character ;
(iii) Applicants should have fulfilled all required qualifications for the recruitment to the post in every aspect on or
before the closing date of applications. The applications of those who have not fulfilled the basic qualifications
will be rejected.
3. Age.– Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age. This age limit does not apply to those
who are already in the Public Service.
4. Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,215 -10x215 -4x240 - 7x320 - 15x360 - Rs. 25,965 (MN 4-2006(A))
5. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made on the order of merit of the total marks obtained by applicants at the
structured interview marking scheme of which is as follows :–

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1551
Headings under which marks will be awarded Maximum marks
1. Additional educational qualifications 20
2. Experience 25
3. Diploma Certificate obtained from a recognized Institution in International Law, Maritime law, 20
International Conventions on Maritime
4. Educational qualification in English or Sinhala/Tamil languages 10
5. Computer Literacy 20
6. Skills demonstrated at the Interview 05
Total Marks 100
6. Conditions of Service :
(i) Efficiency Bar Examination :
The relevant Efficiency Bar Efficiency Bar Nature of the Efficiency
Examination Bar Examination
1
st Efficiency Bar Examination Before the expiry of three (03) years from recruitment to Written Examination
Grade III
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination Before the expiry of three (03) years from promotion to Written Examination
Grade II
3rd Efficiency Bar Examination Before the expiry of five (05) years from promotion to Written Examination
Grade I
(ii) Official Language Proficiency :
Grade Prescribed Proficiency
1. Official Language Officers who joined the service in a medium of language which is not an official language should
acquire the prescribed proficiency in the official language within the probation period.
2. Other Official Language Should have acquired the relevant level of language proficiency as per Public Administration
Circular No. 07/2007 and other Circulars incidental thereto.
(iii) This post is permanent and pensionable. You should contribute to the Widows' and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(iv) The appointment will be subject to a probation period of three (03) years.
(v) General conditions stipulated in Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 2009-02-20 and the provisions of the Establishments Code should be applicable to
every appointment of the selected candidates.
(vi) Every recruitment should be subject to the approved Scheme of Recruitment and to the amendments made thereto in
future.
7. Method of Application :
(i) Applications prepared in conformity to the Specimen Application appearing at the end of this notification should be
sent under registered cover to reach the Director General of Merchant Shipping, Directorate of Merchant Shipping,
No. 43/89, 1st Floor, Bristle Building, York Street, Colombo 01, on or before 31.08.2015. The post should be written
on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
(ii) Applications of those who are in the Public Service should be forwarded through the respective Head of the Department.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1552
In the event of any inconsistency or disparity between the Sinhala and Tamil or English texts of this Gazette Notification, the
Sinhala text should prevail.
Director General of Merchant Shipping,
Directorate of Merchant Shipping.
No. 43/89, 1st Floor, Bristle Building,
York Street, Colombo 01.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
(For office use only)
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT SHIPPING OFFICER (ASSOCIA TED SERVICE CATEGORY - GRADE III) IN THE DIRECTORA TE OF MERCHANT SHIPPING OF
THE MINISTRY OF PORTS AND SHIPPING
01. Name of the Applicant :
Name with initials at the end (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
Full Name (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone No. :
(a) Official Address :––––––––––––.
Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
(b) Private Address :––––––––––––.
Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
Mobile Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––, Date :––––––––––––.
04. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. Civil Status : Married/Unmarried/Widowed :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualification and Additional Qualification :
Qualification Year obtained Qualification Subject Stream Grade Name of Institution Rem arks
09. Professional Qualification :
Qualification Year obtained Qualification Subject Stream Grade Name of Institution
10. Particulars of Experience :
Institution Served Post Functions of the Post in brief Period of Service

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1553
11. Education Qualifications obtained pertaining to English or
Sinhala/Tamil :
Qualification Y ear obtained Grade Name of
Qualification Institution
12. Proficiency in Computer Literacy :
(a) Degree :––––––––––––.
(b) Diploma :––––––––––––.
(c) Certificate Course :––––––––––––.
13. Have you been convicted for any offence by a Court :––––––.
I, do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application is true and accurate. I am aware that if any information
furnished by me in this application is found to be false or inaccurate
before I am selected. I am liable to disqualify for selection and I will
be subject to relevant course of action if such revelation is made
after the recruitment.
–––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
14. Attestation of the signature of the candidate :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... is
personally known to me and placed his/her signature in my presence
on ...............................
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer.
Name :––––––––––––.
Occupation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
15. Attestation of the Head of the Department/Institution :
(This is applicable only for those who are already in the Public
Service)
I, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is
working in this Ministry/Department/Institution, is presently
working in the post of .................................. and his/her work and
conduct are satisfactory, no disciplinary action is pending or
contemplated against him/her. In the case of his/her being selected
for the post he/she can/cannot be released from the service.
––––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department or
Authorized Officer (Seal).
Date :––––––––––––.
07–1519
–––––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Recruitment to the Executive Category of Grade III
(Limited) Post of Assistant Registrar of Companies in the
Department of Registrar of Companies under the Ministry
of Industry and Commerce
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons who have following
qualifications mentioned under No. 2, for fulfill 01 (one) vacancy in
Executive Category of Grade III post of Assistant Registrar of
Companies in the Department of Registrar of Companies.
1. Recruitment Procedure.– Applicants, who got highest marks
on the results of structured interview, held by the Interview board,
out of the applicants who full filled the qualifications, mentioned in
the notification, will be recruited for the number of one (01) vacancy
by the Public Service Commission.
2. Qualifications :
2.1 Educational and Professional Qualifications :
(i) Being and Attorney-at-Law or being a Company
Inspector in the Department of Registrar of
Companies ;
and
(ii) If he/she is an Attorney-at-Law, should have 5 years
active experience at the Department of Registrar of
Companies. If he/she is a Graduate Company
Inspector, should have 10 years active experience at
the Department of Registrar of Companies.
2.2 Physical Fitness.– Every candidate shall have sufficient
physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka or Abroad and discharge the duties of the post.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1554
2.3 Other :
(i) Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Must have excellent moral character.
(iii) All qualifications, needed to recruit to this post,
should have been fulfilled as at the closing date of
applications.
3. Conditions of employment and service conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute
to the Widows/Widowers and Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) Appointment will be subjected to a acting period of one
(01) year. As mentioned in the Scheme of recruitment, 1st
Efficiency Bar Examination should be fulfilled within 03
years from the appointment to Executive Category of
Grade III post of Assistant Registrar of Companies.
(iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014
and circulars, incidental thereto, proficiency in other
official language, in excess to the language, recruited to the
service, must be obtained, within 05 years from the
appointment and the officers who recruited by the
language other than official language should obtain
prescribed official language proficiency within the period
of probation.
(iv) This  appointment is subjected to procedural rules of
Public Service Commissions, the Establishment Code of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial
Regulations and Departmental other orders.
4. Salary Scale.– Salary Scale of Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x 790 -
17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 is entitle for this post according to the
SL-1-2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006.
5. Structured Interview :
(i) Structured Interview will be conducted by the Interview
Board appointed by the Public Service Commission.
(ii) Following marking scheme will be based for the structured
interview.
Scoring Areas Maximum Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications 30
02. Additional Professional Qualifications 10
03. Proficiency in English 25
04. Additional Experience 30
05. Skills in the interview 05
100
6. Method of Application :
(i) Application should comply with the specimen application
and if not which will be rejected without notice. Applicant
should prepare their application, in their own handwriting,
in both sides of A4 size paper with No. 01 to 07 appearing
in 1st page and rest in next pages. A photocopy of the
application is keeping with you will be useful.
(ii) Applications should be sent under registered cover to
reach the Secretary, Ministry of Industry and Commerce,
Galle Road, Colombo 03 on or before 14.08.2015.
Applications, received after that date will be rejected.
The envelope enclosing the application should be marked
“Application for the Executive Category of Grade III
post of Assistant Registrar of Companies in the
Department of Registrar of Companies (Limited)” on the
top left hand corner.
(iii) Applications, without conformity with the specimen
application form, will be rejected. Inquiries about
applications lost or delayed will not be accepted.
(iv) All the applicants, deemed as qualified, who have
submitted application on due dates, will be called for the
interview by the Secretary of the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce. Even though it is not considered that the
applicant is fulfilled the required qualification.
7. Identity of the candidate .– Following identity cards will be
accepted to certify the identity of his/he, in the interview :
(i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration
of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport.
8. Furnishing false information.– Your candidature will be repealed,
if any information mentioned in the application, being detected as
incorrect or false, before the recruitment. If such information being
detected after the recruitment, action will be taken to demise from
the service, subject to the procedure relevant thereto.
9. If there is any matter not mentioned in this notice, the final
decision of such matter will be taken by the Public Service
Commission. Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or
not to fill vacancies.
10. In the event of any inconsistence between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this notification, Sinhala text shall prevail.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Industry and Commerce.
Galle Road,
Colombo 03,
31st July, 2015.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1555
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE CATEGORY OF GRADE III (LIMITED) POST OF ASSISTANT REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES UNDER THE MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE
01. 1.1 Name with initials, initials at the end (in English Capital Letters) :–––––––––––––.
1.2 Full Name (English) :–––––––––––––.
1.3 Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
02. 2.1 Permanent Address (in Capital English) :–––––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.3 Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Date of Birth : Year :–––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––––.
3.2 Age as at 14.08.2015 : Years :–––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––––.
04. 4.1 Sex : Write the relevant number in the box : Female 0
Male 1
4.2 Whether married/unmarried  :–––––––––––––.
05. 5.1 Whether a Sri Lankan citizn (by descent or registration) :–––––––––––––.
5.2 Nationality :–––––––––––––.
5.3 National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
06. Mention the language you sat for the interview/examination for the post of ........................ Service/Class as at 14.08.2015 :––––––––.
07. 7.1 Have you complete the qualifications mentioned in paragraph 02 of the Gazette ? :–––––––––––––.
7.2 Professional qualification and experience :–––––––––––––.
Either 2.1(i) or 2.1(ii) in the paragraph 2.1 of the Gazette, what is your qualifications ? :–––––––––––––.
7.3 Professional Qualification :–––––––––––––.
Date of sworn at Supreme Court as Attorney-at-Law :–––––––––––––.
Registration Number :–––––––––––––.
7.4 Professional experience as at 14.08.2015 : Years :–––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––––.
7.5 Service/Grade which qualify for the application :–––––––––––––.
Existing Post :–––––––––––––.
Grade :–––––––––––––.
Class/Category :–––––––––––––.
Appointment Date :–––––––––––––.
Permanent Date :–––––––––––––.
If the service periods are relevant for application, give particulars in following table :
Name of Service/Grade Date of Appointment
7.6 Period of satisfactory service as at 14.08.2015 of approved service under paragraph 02 of the Gazette :–––––––––––––.
7.7 Educational Qualifications (if necessary) :
Name of the Degree University/ Registration Internal/ Subjects Class of the Effective date of
and  Year Institute Number External pass the degree
08. 8.1 Whether you have been convicted in a court :–––––––––––––.
8.2 If yes, details :–––––––––––––.
B 4 - B 80969

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1556
09. Certificate of Applicant :
I, hereby declare that I have not been penalized for any disciplinary
action (except warnings) and that the satisfactory service in
Department of Registar of Companies is ............................ years
(five/ten) as at 14.08.2015 according to the paragraph 2.1(ii) of the
Gazette and all increments have been earned (except increments
imposed by the service or Department examinations) within previous
five/ten years before 14.08.2015.
I, hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate and examination fees payment
receipt, numbered ............................. and dated ..............................
is attached herewith. I agree that if any particulars contained therein
are found to be false and incorrect, before the interview I’m liable to
disqualify and dismissal.
–––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
MINISTRY  OF  FOREIGN  AFFAIRS
Competitive Examination for Filling Vacancies in the
Public Management Assistants’ Service Cadre in Sri
Lanka Missions/Posts Abroad – 2014(2015)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited to sit for the competitive
examination conducted by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to fill
vacancies in the home-based Public Management Assistants’ Cadre
in Sri Lanka Missions abroad, from eligible officers of the Public
Management Assistants’ Service, Provincial Public Management
Assistants’ Service and Local Government Public Management
Assistants’ Service, to be held in Colombo in November, 2015.
2. Eligibility.– Applicants should meet the following eligibility
criteria :–
(a) Should be an officer of the Class I of the, Public
Management Assistants’ Service/ Provincial Public
Management Assistants’ Service/ Local Government
Management Assistants’ Service or an officer who has
completed 05 years satisfactory service in the Class II of
the Public Management Assistants’ Service/ Provincial
Public Management Assistants’ Service/ Local
Government Management Assistants’ Service, on the date
of application ;
(b) The post and the workplace of the applicant at the time
of applying for the examination, will be applicable with
regard to all aspects of the examination. After submitting
the application, any changes thereto shall not be
considered ;
Note.–  Officers in other Management Assistants'
Services, not belonging to the above mentioned
services, are not eligible to apply.
(c) Age should be less than 56 years on the closing date of
applications ;
(d) Should have  completed the First Efficiency Bar
Examination of the class II of the Services mentioned
under section (a) on the date of application ;
(e) Should have earned on the due date, all the annual
increments, falling within the five years immediately
preceding the date of application ;
(f) Should not have  been subjected to any form of
disciplinary punishment, other than warning.
Note.– (i) Those who are presently serving in Sri Lanka
Missions abroad are not eligible   to apply for
this examination.
(ii) If an applicant who is eligible at the time of
forwarding his/her application, is   subsequently
promoted to a Class/Grade higher than Class I of
the Public Management Assistants’ Service/
Provincial Public Management Assistants’
10. Certificate of the Department Head (According to personal file) :
I, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................................
who forward this application, have not been penalized for any
disciplinary action (except warnings) and that the satisfactory service
in Department of Registrar of Companies is ........................... years
(five/ten) as at 14.08.2015 according to the paragraph 2.1(ii) of the
Gazette and all increments have been earned (except increments
imposed by the service or Department examinations) within previous
five/ten years before 14.08.2015 and that the qualifications have
been completed for the interview according to the Gazette notice and
placed his/her signature to the application in my presence on
...........................
––––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Department Head and
Common Seal.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Position :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
07–1264
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1557
Service/Local Government Public Management
Assistants’ Service or appointed to a post in any
other service, will cease to be eligible to fill a
vacancy in the Home-Based Public Management
Assistants’ cadre at Sri Lanka Missions abroad.
It is the responsibility of such applicant to
promptly inform the Secretary, Ministry of
Foreign Affairs in the event of any change in his/
her official status that might have an impact on
his/her eligibility under the clause ( a) of this
paragraph.
(iii) Preference will be given to officers with experience
in accounts and  establishment work and have a
good working knowledge of English / other foreign
languages (written and spoken). Working
knowledge in other foreign languages will be
considered as an added qualification.
(iv) Computer skills will be an added qualification
and the extent of such skills must be stated in the
application.
3. Method of Selection.– Selection will be made on the basis of
the written examination to be conducted by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations and the interview to be conducted by the
Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will be held in Colombo.
The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations will be
final with regard to conducting of examination and issuing the results.
3.1. Written Examination .– The written examination will
consist of the following papers each of which will
carry 100 marks.
Subject Paper Duration
No.
01 Financial Systems 2 hours
02 Establishment Code & Office Procedure 2 hours
03 English 2 hours
04 General Knowledge 1 hour
Note.-01. Accounting .– This question paper which will
consist of objective and subject type questions is
set to test the candidate’s  practical knowledge of
financial operations and accounting procedures
of a Government institution. All questions should
be answered.
02. Establishment and Office Procedure .– The
questions in this objective and structured type of
paper, are set to test the candidate’s practical
knowledge of establishment and office procedures
of a Government institution. All questions should
be answered.
03. English.– This question paper is designed to test
the candidate’s  knowledge in comprehension and
written communication. All questions should be
answered.
04. General Knowledge.- This paper will consist of
MCQs and short answer type questions on
political, social, cultural and economic
environment, history and geography of Sri Lanka
as well as current, international affairs. The
candidates should answer all questions.
3.2. Interview
3.2.1. The interview will carry 100 marks and will be
conducted by a Board appointed by the Secretary,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
3.2.2. Those candidates who have obtained 40% marks or
above in each paper with a total aggregate of 200 or
above at the written examination will be eligible to
be called for the interview.
3.2.3. The list of applicants prepared in the alphabetical
order who have  qualified for the interview as per
para 3.2.2. will be sent to the Secretary, Ministry
of Foreign Affairs by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
After receiving interview marks, the result sheet
prepared on the basis of merit order of total aggregate
marks obtained by the applicants at the written
examination and the interview, will be sent to the
Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
In addition to that, examination results will be
personally conveyed to all the applicants who
appeared for the Examination.
4. Terms of Engagement
4.1 Candidates after being selected to fill the vacancies,
will be required to serve initially at the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs in Colombo for a specified period of
one year, prior to being posted to a Sri Lanka Mission
abroad.  If the work and conduct of a candidate during
this initial period of service at the Ministry are found
to be unsatisfactory, his/her selection is liable to be
cancelled.
4.2 Posting will be decided on the basis of requirements
of respective Missions and the officer’s suitability
and competence (in foreign language etc.).  In deciding
such posting, there is no obligation on the part of the
Ministry to consider the officer’s personal needs and
grievances (children education etc.) and the officer
should report for duty at the Mission assigned by the
Ministry, irrespective of  their personal preferences.
4.3. An officer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka
Mission abroad, is normally required to serve abroad
for a period of three years on the  terms and conditions
stipulated by the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
and to enter into an agreement to that effect. On
completion of the their tour of duty, the officer should
return to Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1558
4.4. The selected officers while serving at a Sri Lanka
Mission abroad, will continue to receive their
substantive salaries paid in Colombo.  In addition, the
officer will be paid an overseas allowance during their
period of service abroad.
 4.5. Once an officer is selected, cost of return air passage
from Sri Lanka to the country of posting,
accommodation and other facilities during his/her
service abroad, in respect of the selected officer,   his/
her spouse and for a maximum of two children  who
are below 21 years of age and dependent on the officer
only, will be met by the Government as determined
by the Secretary/Foreign Affairs.
5. Method of application
5.1 The application forms should be  prepared on an A4
size paper as per the specimen appended to this
notification, containing items from 01-05 on the first
page, 06-15 on the second page and the rest on the
third page. Applications which are not in conformity
with the specimen and those not providing the required
details will be rejected without any notice. Applicants
are advised to keep copies of their applications.
5.2  On the applications in Sinhala and Tamil, the name of
the examination should be clearly indicated in English,
in addition to Sinhala or Tamil.
5.3 Applications should be forwarded through the
respective Heads of Department with the
recommendation and endorsement from Head of
Department on the eligibility of the applicant for
service in Missions abroad and the correctness of
details given in the application. The Head of
Department should also state whether the applicant,
if selected, can be released immediately from the
present post.
5.4 Applications should be forwarded by registered post
to reach the "Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Organization & Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, P. O Box 1503, Colombo"
on or before 01st  September, 2015 and should be marked
"Examination for Selection of Management Assistants
to fill vacancies in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad" on the
top left hand corner of the envelope.
6.Examinations Fees.– Examination fee of Rs. 400/- should be
paid at any Post Office / Sub Post Offices in Sri Lanka to the credit
of Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations, and the receipt obtained should be pasted in the
relevant cage of the application. Details of the receipt such as
number, the office money is paid to, date and the amount paid,
should be indicated in the relevant space.  Receipt obtained by
paying examination fees through any other mode of postal/money
orders or stamps will not be accepted.  It will be appropriate to
keep a photocopy of the receipt. Under no circumstances will  the
examination fees  be refunded.
7.Incomplete applications will be rejected.  No allegation that
an application has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
No applications received after the closing date will be accepted.
8. Admission to sit for the Examination
8.1 Applications will not be acknowledged.
8.2 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to all the applicants who are within
the age limit specified in the notification provided.
The duly perfected applications should forwarded on
or before the closing date  with the receipts for
payment of the due examination fee  affixed on to
them.  As soon as the admission cards are issued to
the prospective candidates, a notification will be
published in the newspapers by the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka to that effect.  Applicants
who have not received their admission cards at least
prior  to three days of the examination, should  inform
the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka as
instructed in the newspaper notification. Such
applicants may inquire from the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka about the non-receipt of
admission cards, indicating the applicant’s name in
full, address, National Identity Card  No. and the
name of the examination applied for along with the
photo copies of the application form, the receipt issued
on payment of examination fees and the receipt issued
when sending the application by registered post.
Outstation applicants are advised to fax a letter of
request together with the above details to the
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka to enable the
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka to fax a copy
of your admission card.
8.3 A candidate presenting himself/herself for the
examination must produce his/her admission card with
attestation of signature to the Supervisor of the
Examination Centre.  A candidate who fails to produce
his/her admission card as mentioned above will not be
permitted to sit for the Examination.
8.4 A candidate must sit for the Examination at the
Examination hall assigned to him/her.  All candidates
should surrender their admission cards on the first
day of the examination to the supervisor.  A set of
rules to be observed by all candidates is published in
the Gazette. The candidates are subjected to all rules
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations. If such rules or regulations are
violated, the candidate would have to face a penalty
imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1559
The decision of the Commissioner General of
Examinations will be final with regard to the conduct
of examination and the issuance of results.
8.5 Issuance of admission card to a candidate shall not be
in any way treated as that candidate had satisfied all
the qualifications for the examination.
9. Medium of Examination
9.1 The Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English medium. Candidates will not be allowed
to change the medium applied to, subsequently.
9.2 A candidate is required to answer all question papers
in one language only, except the English Language
paper.
10. Penalty for Furnishing False Information
10.1 If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate are
found to be false within his/her knowledge, or if he/
she willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she will
be liable for dismissal from the Public Service, and
therefore, he/she will be ineligible to sit for the
examination.
10.2 If a candidate is found to be ineligible to sit for this
examination at any stage prior to, during or after the
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be rejected.
11. Identity of Candidate.– A candidate will be required to prove
his/her identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor for each subject he/she offers.  For this purpose any of
the following documents will be accepted :–
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) Valid Passport.
12. Decision of the Secretary of Foreign Affairs will be the final
in this regard.
13.  In case of any divergence in the text of this notification
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English, the Sinhala text will prevail.
C
HITRANGANEE WAGISWARA,
Secretary,
Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
P.O. Box 583, Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
31st July, 2015.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
A
PPLICA TION FOR THE COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR FILLING
VACANCIES IN THE PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’ SERVICE CADRE
IN SRI LANKA MISSIONS/POSTS ABROAD – 2014(2015)
PART A
The Service you belong to:
(Give the relevant number in the Box)
Public Management Assistants’ For office use
Service-1
Provincial Public Management
Assistants’ Service-2
Local Government Public Management
Assistants’ Service-3
Medium in which the applicant wishes to sit for the examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Give the relevant Number in the Box)
1.0 Name :
1.1 Last Name with initials : Mr/Mrs/Ms :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)  Eg:  SILV A  M.A.
1.2 Name in full (In English block letters) :–––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.0 Address:
2.1 To which address Admission cards should be sent (In English
block letters)  :–––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
2.3 Official Address (In English block letters) :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
3.03.1 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Give the relevant number in the Box)
3.2 National Identity Card No:
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at the closing date of application:
Years : Months : Days :
4.0  4.1 Service : Public Management Assistants Service/Provincial
Public Management  Assistants Service /Local Government
Public Management Assistants Service (Delete whichever is
inapplicable) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2015
1560
4.2 Date of first appointment to the Public Service/ Provincial
Service/Local Government Service and Language medium.
(Delete whichever is inapplicable) :–––––––––––.
5.0 5.1 Civil Status:
Married – 2
Single – 1
(Give the relevant number in the Box)
5.2 If married, number of children :–––––––––––.
Their dates of birth and ages :–––––––––––.
6.0 If the spouse is employed, give details :–––––––––––.
7.0 Educational Qualifications (with language medium)  :–––––––.
8.0 Date of Promotion to :
8.1 Class II :–––––––––––.
Date of completion of the First Efficiency Bar Examination
of Class II :–––––––––––.
8.2 Class I  :–––––––––––.
8.3 The Class which the applicant is currently attached to and
the date of appointment for the same :–––––––––––.
9.0 Present Annual Salary :–––––––––––.
10.0 Experience (Give the number of years) :–––––––––––.
10.1 Accounts :–––––––––––.
10.2 Establishment Procedures :–––––––––––.
11.0 Proficiency :
Reading Writing Speaking
(a) Sinhala Language
(b) Tamil Language
(c) English Language
(d) Any other Foreign Language
12.0 Ability :
12.1 Typing (Sinhala/Tamil/English) :–––––––––––.
12.2 Computer Literacy (Give details) :–––––––––––.
13.0  If the applicant has previously served at any Sri Lanka Mission
abroad, give the names of the Mission with dates :––––––––.
14.0  Any other qualifications :–––––––––––.
15.0  The receipt issued by the District/Divisional Secretariat on
payment of examination fees should be affixed in the below
cage  (retain a photocopy of the receipt)
1. Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
2. District/Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––.
3. Date :–––––––––––.
4. Amount :–––––––––––.
16.0. Applicant’s Certificate:
I do hereby declare that I have earned all increments falling due
in the 5 years immediately preceding 01.09.2015 and have not been
subjected to any disciplinary punishment, except warning.  I also
declare that to the best of my knowledge the information furnished
in this application is true and accurate. I am aware that if any
information is found to be incorrect or false, before, during or after
the examination, the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the
right to cancel my candidature/ or appointment.
I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination
and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior
to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible
according to the regulations of this examination.
I further declare that I will be subjected to the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
in relation to examination procedure and issuing results.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
PART B
(To be filled by the Head of Department)
I declare that I have verified that Mr./Mrs./Miss…….………….,
is in Class I/Class II of the Public Management Assistants Service/
Provincial Government Public Management Assistants Service/Local
Government Public Management Assistants Service –
(a) has earned all increments during the 5 years immediately
preceding 01.09.2015 ;
(b) and has not been subjected to any disciplinary
punishment during the 5 years immediately preceding
01.09.2015 and that the information furnished in the
application is true. I hereby certify that the examination
fees have been paid and the receipt is attached herewith.
Recommendation :
(i) Applicant’s  suitability for service in Missions abroad ;
(ii) Whether he/she can or cannot be released, if selected.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department
with the Official Frank.
Designation  :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
07–1568
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.