

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'03'04
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.03.2015
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1904$40 – 2015 ud¾;= 04 jeks nodod – 2015'03'04
No. 1904/40 – WEDNESDAY, MARCH 04, 2015
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No.: CI/1703.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement (in Sinhala, English and Translation into Tamil)  entered into between Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Limited,
No. 21, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 of the one part and the Insurance Employee’s Union, No. 288, Union Place, Colombo 02 and  Sri Lanka
Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya, 341/21, 4th Floor, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya of the other part on 22nd  day of August 2014, regarding the
Non Executive Grades  is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
HERATH YAP A,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
23rd  February, 2015.
Collective Agreement No. 32 of 2014
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT FOR  NON  EXECUTIVE  GRADES  2013 - 2016
 BETWEEN
SRI  LANKA  INSURANCE  CORPORATION  LIMITED
AND
MEMBERS OF
INSURANCE  EMPLOYEE’S  UNION
AND
SRI  LANKA  NIDAHAS  SEV AKA  SANGAMAYA

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'03'04
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.03.2015
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Title
2. Date of Operation and Duration
3. Persons Covered and Bound
4. Rights and responsibilities of employer
5. General terms and conditions of employment
6. Variation of terms & conditions of employment or benefits
7. Salary revision
8. Transport Incentive
9. Cost of Living Allowance
10. Annual Bonus
11. Statutory Contribution
12. Work Practices
13. Grievances and Dispute Handling procedure
14. Trade Union Action
15. Consequences of Termination of Agreement
16. Breaches of Agreement
17. Interpretation of Agreement
18. Definitions
19. Signatories to this Agreement
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT FOR  NON  EXECUTIVE  GRADES  2013 - 2016
 BETWEEN
SRI  LANKA  INSURANCE  CORPORATION  LIMITED
AND
MEMBERS OF
INSURANCE  EMPLOYEE’S  UNION
AND
SRI  LANKA  NIDAHAS  SEV AKA  SANGAMAYA
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT is made and entered  into on the 22nd August, 2014 between SRI LANKA INSURANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED., having its Registered office at No. 21, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 (hereinafter referred to as the
‘Employer’) of the one part and THE  INSURANCE EMPLOYEE’S UNION AND SRI LANKA NIDAHAS  SEV AKA SANGAMAYA
being trade unions duly registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance and having their registered offices at No. 288, Union Place, Colombo
02,  and 341/21, 4th Floor, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya respectively, (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Unions’) of the other part Witnesseth:
WHEREAS the Unions have shown to the satisfaction of the Employer that they  represents a majority of the Non Executive Grade
Employees employed by the Employer and employer acknowledges same.
AND WHEREAS it  is the desire of both the Unions and the Employer to enter into an Agreement which will ensure
(a) Smooth facilitation of the Employers trade and business with a view of enhancing operational efficiency, productivity and
maintaining the competitive position of the Employer in the insurance industry.
(b) Address the salaries wages and conditions of employment to suit the current circumstances
(c) Create peace and harmony at the workplace NOW THEREFORE for and in consideration of the above premises and the
mutual terms and conditions hereinafter set out, the Unions and the Employer agrees as follows:
1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known and referred to as ‘‘THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT FOR NON EXECUTIVE
GRADES 2013 - 2016’’.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'03'04
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.03.2015
3A
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Collective Agreement shall be effective from the First day of December Two Thousand
Thirteen, and may be terminated by either party with one month’s written notice (Thirty Days) to the other, provided however that neither
party shall  give such notice prior to the Thirtieth day of November, Two Thousand Sixteen. Any notice of termination of this Agreement
given by  either party, prior to the Thirtieth day of November, Two Thousand Sixteen, shall not be regarded as valid notice and shall be of
no avail.
The parties acknowledge that the terms agreed herein shall continue to be honored notwithstanding the segregation of the Employers
business by application of the segregation rules contemplated in the Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2011. If
the parties so desire the Employer will foster and encourage the new legal entities to be established in pursuance of segregati on rules, to
subscribe to the terms herein embodied. Should the parties desire to renew this agreement or revise the terms hereof, negotiations on same
shall only commence by First November, Two Thousand and Sixteen.
03. Persons Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Unions and all members of the Unions
in the NON EXECUTIVE Grade Staff who are employed on permanent contracts of employment by the Employer at its work places in
Colombo Head Office, Branches and other locations and who are members of the Unions as at 22nd of August 2014 and thereafter.
04. Rights and Responsibilities of Employer.–  Selection, placement, distribution, transfer and promotion of personnel, laying
down of working hours as per statutory laws, working programmes, planning and control of branch operations, introduction of new policies
or improved operational methods, expansion of business facilities, establishment of quality and operating standards, maintenanc e of
efficiency, the consequence thereof, maintenance of discipline in the work place and for that purpose taking necessary disciplinary action
against staff within the framework of the existing law, regulations and standing orders, as well as other inherent rights of an employer are
exclusively the rights and responsibilities of the Employer.
Recruitment, selection, placement and promotions of employees will depend only on company requirements. In determining the
requirements, the company shall have regard to prior experience qualifications, skills attributes and acceptance of prospective candidate by
the nature and the calling of the respective position or the job. It is agreed by the company that the foregoing aspects shall be implemented
through the respective committees appointed by the Board of Directors.
05. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall, as from the date hereof and
during the continuance in force of this Agreement, be deemed to  be included in all the contracts of employment between the Employer and
the Employees covered  and bound by this  Agreement, Provided, that in the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms and
conditions of this Agreement and any pre-existing terms and conditions or practices, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall prevail.
06. V ariation of Terms and Conditions of Employment or Benefits.–
(a) The Unions and their members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not seek to vary or add to all or any of the
practices, terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by  this
Agreement or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the workers covered and bound by  this Agreement, other
than by mutual Agreement.
(b) This Agreement shall be deemed to be a full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as all matters  raised by
the Unions or incidental thereto and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion of
this Agreement.
07. Salary Revision.–
1. With effect from the First day of December, Two Thousand Thirteen, employees covered and bound by this Agreement shall
be paid salaries in accordance with the salary ranges set out in Schedule 1 hereof. The annual increments payable to
employees shall also be in terms of those applicable to the respective ranges.
2. To ascertain the salary revision of an employee covered and bound by this Agreement with effect from 01.12.2013 on the
salary ranges set out at schedule 1 hereof, the following method of conversion shall apply.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'03'04
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.03.2015
(a) The employees who are currently below the minimum point of the salary range shall be adjusted to the minimum point
stipulated in schedule 1 as applicable to the respective grade in which the employees are currently placed.
(b) A 23.3% increase shall be effected on the current or the adjusted base as the case may be in respect of employees covered
by this agreement.
(c) Thereafter, as a once and for all adjustment that will not be repeated hereafter, a sum of Rs. 135/= per each completed year
of service as at 01st December 2013 will be added to salaries of Employees and bound.
(d) Provided that in case of employees whose salaries have been revised in terms of (a), (b) and (c) hereof, but such total
salary revision is less than interim allowance paid, the company shall consider the salary revision to be Rs. 5000.
(e) It is also agreed by the Unions and the employees covered and bound that the interim allowance granted with effect from
01st of February 2014 to the respective employees  as applicable shall not be paid henceforth. In calculating the salary
arrears, the aggregate of the interim allowance already paid to the employees shall be deducted against the arrears
payment.
(f) It is also agreed by the Unions and the employees covered and bound that the foregoing adjustment addresses all their
perceived anomalies and that they shall not raise any demands related to such matters hereafter.
(g) It is agreed by the parties that payment of arrears. i.e. from  01.12.2013 shall be limited to the increase of the basic pay
and EPF/ETF.
(h) With effect from 01st December 2014, the monthly salaries of employees covered by this agreement shall be further
increased by 5%.
(i) With effect from 01st December 2015, the monthly salaries of employees covered by this agreement shall be further
increased by 5%.
08. Transport Incentive.– It is agreed by the employer to extend the Transport Incentive to those non executives who are not
enjoying any other travel related benefits.
The forgoing provisions shall not apply to non executives who are presently enjoying the  travel related benefits. Provided that, in
the case of those already receiving any other transport related benefit and whose revision falls below the equivalent of 10% of salary, the
company will make good any shortfall.
09. Cost of Living Allowance.–
(a) The Employer shall pay a monthly cost of living allowance at the rate of Rs. 67 per point of variation beyond the base year/
month relevant November 2013 (176.5), if any, based on the monthly variation of the CCPI figures released.
(b) To arrive at the figure due for the month of December 2013, and it is agreed by the employer to consider making the payment
by computing any upward variation of points multiplied by Rs. 67 and add Rs. 649 hereafter considered as the minimum
rupee figure.
(c) Thereon, the monthly cost of living payment will be computed on the basis of the upward movement of the CCPI beyond
the base year, if any, and in such instances, the difference of monthly figures will be multiplied by at the rate of Rs. 67 per
point.
For instance, since the CCPI figure for the month of December 2013 was also 176.5, and there being no variation considering
the base year/ month also to be 176.5, the monthly cost of living payment would only be Rs. 649. This is in keeping with the
agreed terms for the commencement of the scheme.
Thereafter, to arrive at the amount payable in the month January 2014, the variation if any, of the figures for the months of
December 2013 and January 2014 should be ascertain. Since the variation is only one completed point (i.e. 177.5 minus 176.5),
the amount payable for the month of January 2014 shall be Rs. 716. (i. e. Rs. 67 + Rs. 649).
On the other hand, if on any occasion a high figure is arrived, and a low variation is recorded in terms of the CCPI in the following
month, the amount payable shall be the minimum rupee figure Rs. 649.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'03'04
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.03.2015
5A
(d) In the event, the CCPI (2006/7) is discontinued, it is agreed by the employer to freeze the last payment made and make
a monthly cost of living payment in terms thereof.
(e) In the event The Government make any changes to Colombo Consumer Price Index it is agreed that necessary adjustments
will be made accordingly.
10. Annual Bonuses.- Annual profit bonus may be paid at the discretion of management subject to availability of adequate profits,
however not exceeding the bonuses paid in 2013 December / 2014 April, which amounted to the equivalent of 3 1/2 months basic salary in
total. The bonus policy previously followed on un-availed medical leave shall continue to extend for the duration of this agreement.
11. Statutory contributions.-Contributions made by the Employer and Employee on statutory payments such as EPF, ETF and
gratuity will continue at the same rates as in year 2010.
12. Work Practices.- Both the Employer and Unions agree that the work practices of the company shall be those that are specifically
stipulated in contracts of employment of employees including job descriptions, existing policies, practices, both existing and those that may
be varied from time to time by the company due to new policies being introduced or in view of amendments to existing policies, procedures,
practices, and job descriptions to meet  requirements of the company.
Provided however, prior to effecting any changes the company will notify the Unions.
Overtime work shall only be performed as per the requirements of the company.
13. Grievances and Disputes Handling Procedure .- In the event of any dispute or grievance arising between an employee or
employees and the Company or between the Union and the Company, the Grievance Handling Procedure of the Company shall be followed
for the settlement of such dispute or in resolving such grievance in the first instance.
14. Trade Union Action.- The Unions and the staff who are members of the unions covered and bound by this Agreement jointly
and severally agree with the Company that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any form of trade union
action in respect of matters covered or dealt under this Agreement and also not engage in any action that can bring the institu tion into
disrepute and harm the goodwill of the Company in general.
Provided that, in the case of a dispute or grievance not covered by this agreement, it is agreed by parties to resolve such dispute or
grievance in terms of the dispute resolution procedure set out in Clause 13 hereof and thereafter by resorting to conciliations proceedings
before the Commissioner General of labour under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, prior to engaging in any form of Trade Union
action in relation to such dispute or grievance. The Unions shall give two days prior notice to the Company in writing prior to taking any
Trade Union action.
It is also agreed by the Unions and the staff who are members of the unions that, in the event they decide to take trade union action
as a last resort, they shall still carry out essential skeletal services of the company.
15. Consequences of Termination of Agreement .– On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, facilities and
concessions enjoyed by the Unions and/or their members under this Agreement shall  ipso facto  cease Employee benefits as per the
Collective Agreement will remain unchanged provided workmen continue with the agreed work practices, terms and conditions stipulated in
this Agreement.
16. Breaches of the Agreement.– If in the opinion of the Company and the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, either of the Unions
or its members have committed a breach of this Agreement, then and in such event the Company reserves to itself the right to withdraw all
or any of the facilities or benefits granted to the employees or Unions, 7 days after raising such breach the Union in writing,  without
prejudice to the Company’s right to restore such facilities or benefits upon such terms and conditions as the Company and the Employers’
Federation of Ceylon may decide. The Unions will be entitled to dispute the justification of such withdrawal.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'03'04
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.03.2015
If, in the opinion of the Unions, the Employer has committed a breach of this Agreement, then and in such event the Unions would
have the right to refer such matters to the Commissioner of Labour.
17. Interpretation of Agreement.– Any dispute over the interpretation of this Agreement shall be settled by conciliation before the
Commissioner-General of Labour or by voluntary arbitration in terms of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act (1950).
18. Definitions.– Unless the context otherwise requires the following words shall have the following meaning:
(a) ‘Employee’ or ‘Staff’ shall mean an employee in the permanent grades in the NON EXECUTIVE categories and covered
and bound by this Agreement.
(b) ‘Dispute’ shall have the same meaning as an ‘Industrial Dispute’ in the Industrial Disputes Act (1950) as amended or in any
Act enacted by the Parliament to replace the Industrial Disputes Act subject to the proviso that it shall not include a dispute
involving a variation of this Collective Agreement.
(c) Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender.
(d) Words importing the singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa.
Signatories to this Agreement
In witness whereof parties have set their hand hereunto on this 22nd August, Two Thousand and Fourteen at Colombo.


<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'03'04
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.03.2015
7A
03 - 562
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA