

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … -
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 772 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"437 – 2025 uehs ui 16 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'05'16
No. 2,437 –  FRIDAY, MAY, 16, 2025
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  "GAZETTE"
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th June, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd May, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 K. G. Pradeep  Pushpa  Kumara,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
02nd January, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
769 - B 082681 - 5,403 (05/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
770
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
771
Rules  and   Instructions   for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
772
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, PROVINCIAL COUNCILS AND LOCAL 
GOVERNMENT 
Direct Recruitment To The Grade III  Of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service On Professional Qualifications  
And Merit – 2021 (2025)
APPLICATIONS  are called for recruitment to the post of Accountant in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service as 
per paragraph 7.4 of the Minute of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service published in Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.1,670/33, dated 10.09.2010. The application prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form annexed to this notification should be sent by registered post to the Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government on or before 16 th  June 2025. The words “Application for direct recruitment for 
the posts in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service” should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelop 
enclosing applications.
02. Method of Recruitment         
Applications will be called through a public notification from the persons who possess the following qualifications and 
the officers will be selected on the results of a Structured Interview conducted by an interview board appointed by the 
Public Service Commission in order to fill not more than 43 vacancies in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service 
on merit basis as per professional qualifications. Candidates can appear at the structured interview in a language he/she 
prefers.
03. Conditions of Service
Selected candidates will be appointed to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service subject to the Procedural Rules 
of the Public Service Commission, conditions stipulated in the Minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service published 
in the Gazette  of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,670/33, dated 10.09.2010 and the amendments 
made thereto or to be made hereafter. 
 (i) This appointment is permanent and pensionable. You should be subjected to the policy decisions made by the 
Government with regard to the pension scheme you are entitled to, in the future. Further, you should contribute 
to the Widows’ and Orphans’/ Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme. You should make the contributions as 
prescribed by the Government from time to time.
 (ii) Officers should acquire language proficiency as per Public Administration Circular No. 18/2020 
 (iii) This appointment is subjected to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, Establishments Code of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government, other regulations of the 
Government, Circulars and instructions and revisions made to the above from time to time.
 (iv) The language medium of appointment will be the language medium in which the candidate appears for the interview.
04. Salary Structure and Monthly Salary Scale 
As per the salary circular  Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025, this post is entitled to the monthly salary scale – 
Rs.82,150 – 10  x  2,400 -  8  x  2,940 - 17 x 3,900 - Rs.195,970/-, as per the salary Category SL 1-2025. 
(Salaries are paid as per the categorization under Schedule I of Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025 dated 
25.03.2025, as mentioned in Schedule III therein as at 01.01.2025)
05. Professional Qualifications
 (i) Should have passed the final Examination of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka 
  or
Posts - Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
773
 ii. Should have passed the Final Examination of an Institute of Chartered Accountants in a Commonwealth Country. 
  or
 iii. Should have passed the Final Examination of an institute of Chartered Management Accountants in a Commonwealth 
Country  
  or
 iv. Should have passed the Final Examination of the institute of Chartered Certified Accountants. 
  or
 v. Should have passed the final Examination of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants of United Kingdom
06. Physical Fitness
All candidates should be physically fit in all aspect to serve in any part of Sri Lanka. 
07. Other Qualifications 
 i. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 ii. Should be of excellent moral character
 iii. A person holding priesthood in any of the religious sect will be ineligible to face the structured interview as per 
7.4.2.6 (iii) of the minute of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service.
 iv. Date of Eligibility
  A candidate will be deemed to have fulfilled necessary qualifications for appointment to the service if he has 
completed the above necessary qualifications in all aspects as at the date of publication of the Gazette notification 
calling for applications. Copies of certificates should be attached to the application in support of qualifications.
08. Age Limit
Candidates should be not less than 22 years and not more than 35 years on the date of publication of the Gazette 
notification. 
09. Candidates should forward the following documents along with the application
a) A copy of the birth certificate
b) Copies of the highest educational and professional certificates
c) Two character certificates obtained within 06 months (one of them should be from a Justice of the Peace)
10. Structured marking scheme for direct appointment on merit basis 
Marks will be allocated strictly for one of the highest qualifications gained in addition to the basic professional 
qualification. 
Serial Nos. Subject Marks Maximum Marks
01 Additional Professional Qualifications 
I. Being a Higher Diploma Holder in Accountancy or 
Commerce obtained from the Sri Lanka Technical College/
Sri Lanka Institute of Higher Technical Education.
II. A pass in the Licentiate II /Intermediate examination/ 
Accounting and Business Certificate II/ Business Level of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, a pass 
in the Stage II examination of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants, a pass in the Professional Part 
I examination of the Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountants.
15
20
50

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
774
Serial Nos. Subject Marks Maximum Marks
III.  A pass in Final Part I examination of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, A pass in the Stage 
III examination of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants or a pass in the Professional Part II examination 
of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
IV .  Having obtained the Associated Membership of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants or Association of 
Chartered Certified Accountants or any other recognized 
professional qualifications. 
V.   Possession of a Fellowship of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka or Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants or Association of Chartered 
Certified Accountants or any other recognized professional 
qualifications.
30
40
50
02 Educational Qualifications 
I. General Degree - Pass
II. Special Degree -Pass
III. General Degree with 2nd Class 
IV . Special Degree with 2nd Class
V.  General Degree with 1st Class
VI. Special Degree with 1st Class 
VII. Postgraduate Diploma 
(In the relevant fields such as Public Finance Management, 
Finance Management, Public Finance, Accounting, Development 
Finance, Commerce, Economics, Business Administration, Public 
Management, Information Technology, Public Policies and Project 
Management) 
VIII. Postgraduate Degree – without a thesis
(In the relevant fields such as Public Finance Management, 
Finance Management, Public Finance, Accounting, Development 
Finance, Commerce, Economics, Business Administration, Public 
Management, Information Technology, Public Policies and Project 
Management) 
IX . Postgraduate Degree – with a thesis
(In the relevant fields such as Public Finance Management, 
Finance Management, Public Finance, Accounting, Development 
Finance, Commerce, Economics, Business Administration, Public 
Management, Information Technology, Public Policies and Project 
Management)
10
12
12
13
13
15
17
20
25
25
03 Experience 
Experience gained after satisfying the professional qualifications 
will be considered here.
Total of 20 marks for experience of 04 years by allocating 05 marks 
for each year 
20

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
775
Serial Nos. Subject Marks Maximum Marks
04
For Board of Interview
These marks will be awarded by the Board of Interview based on 
the skills shown in facing the interview
05
Total 100
11. An officer who is already in the public Service/ Provincial Public Service should forward his/her original application 
through head of the department to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and 
Local Government, Independence Square, Colombo 07. Another copy of the application may be directly forwarded 
to the same address before the closing date of application.
12. Method of Application
a) The application should be prepared by the candidate himself strictly in accordance with the specimen form annexed 
to this notification on sheet of paper of A 4 size.
b) Item No. 01 to 05 of the application should be on the first page. The application should be perfected in the language 
in which the candidate is eligible to face the interview. However, the Heading should be written in English (Block 
Capitals) as well in addition to the official language when preparing the application.
c) Incomplete applications are liable to be rejected. No appeals will be considered in respect of loss of applications in 
the post and applications received after the closing date.
d) If any particulars furnished by candidates are found incorrect and has been done so within his / her knowledge or 
that he/she has willfully suppressed a material fact he/she will be liable to disqualification to receive an appointment 
and dismissal from the public Service. 
13. The effective date of appointment and the number of appointments is decided by the Public Service Commission. Public 
Service Commission reserves the right to fill a certain number of vacancies or all the vacancies. 
14. Selected candidates should pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination in the following subjects prior to the confirmation 
in his/her post at the end of the probation period of three years. 
 (i) Government financial Procedures
 (ii) Law and Management
 (iii) Administration
 (iv) Report writing and presenting information to the management
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the notices published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
 
       
 S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary, 
  Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial       
                                                                                   Councils and Local Government
09th May 2025, 
Ministry of Public Administration, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government
Independence Square
Colombo 07

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
776
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROVINCIAL COUNCILS AND LOCAL 
GOVERNMENT
Direct Recruitment To The Grade III Of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service On Professional Qualifications  
And Merit– 2021(2025)
                        (For office use only)
Medium of interview:
Sinhala – 1, Tamil – 2, English -3
(please write the relevant number in the cage) Changing of given medium is not permitted)
01)  1.1 Name with initials: Mr./ Mrs./ Miss……………………………………………………………..
    (In Capital Letters) Ex: Mr. PERERA, D.T
 1.2 Full name     : ……………………………………………………………………………………………..
     (In Capital letters) …………………………………………………………………………………………
      1.3 Full name: …………………………………………………………………………………………………
       (In Sinhala/Tamil) ………………………………………………………………………………………………
      1.4 National Identity Card No: 
02) 2.1 Permanent address: ……………………………………………………………………………………
 2.2 Official address: ………………………………………………………………………………………………...
(An officer in the public or provincial Public Service should give his/her official address. Any change of address 
should be communicated immediately)
 2.3 Telephone Number: ……………………………………………………………………………………………….
03) 3.1 Date of Birth: Year :…………………… Month:……………. Date:………………
 3.2 Age as at the date on which the Gazette notification is published: 
  Years:……………….. Months: …………………. Days: ………………………………
04) Sex:    
05)   Marital Status: 
06) Particulars of obtaining the basic qualification mentioned in No. 05 of the notification of calling for applications.
 Qualification  Institution  Date
………………………….. …………………………………. ……………………..
…………………………. …………………………………. ……………………..
…………………………. …………………………………. ……………………..
(Copies of the certificates should be produced along with the application.)
No. 
Female Male
Married Unmarried

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
777
07)  Highest Examination passed in Language Proficiency:
(i) Sinhala (ii) Tamil (iii) English
08)  Educational and professional qualifications: 
(Please give particulars of the highest degrees obtained, names of the relevant institutions, class secured, if any, relevant 
dates, subjects offered and professional qualifications. It is compulsory to produce the copies of the certificates required 
to prove eligibility along with the application)
Educational and 
professional 
qualifications 
Institution Pass (Class) Effective Date Subjects
09) Present occupation and previous posts held: Please indicate the date of joining the occupation, the date of leaving, the 
annual salary received and the cause of termination of employment. (Copies of the certificates required to prove the 
service experience should be produced along with the application)
Post From To Annual Salary
(Rs.)
Causes of 
termination of 
employment
10)  Have you been charged in a Court of Law for any criminal offence? If so, state full particulars with dates, quoting 
number of case: ………………………………………………..
11) Any further particulars: ………………………………………….
12) Give the names and addresses of two persons known to you, other than those from whom you obtain character 
certificates, from whom particulars about you could be obtained.
(i) ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(ii) ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that 
if any particulars contained herein are found false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification/dismissal without any 
compensation.
Date:…………………….. ………………………….….….….….….….,                       
 Signature of the Candidate.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
778
Certificate of the Head of Department
Recommendation of the Head of the Department if the candidate is in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service
I hereby certify that the candidate named Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................…………… ………………………………..has 
been serving at the ………………………………… since …………………………… and his/her work and conduct has 
been satisfactory.
Date : ……………………………… …………………………………………………, 
 Signature and the Official stamp
 of the Head of the Department.
05-101
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
     GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  KOTELAWALA  DEFENCE  UNIVERSITY
Calling Applications For Undergraduate Programmes For Officer Cadets 
1. APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified Sri Lankans for the Undergraduate Programmes for Officer Cadets 
at General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University Ratmalana and Southern Campus, Sooriyawewa from 16.05.2025  to 
06.06.2025. 
2. General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University has been empowered to award degrees to those Officer Cadets who, 
after being enlisted to the commissioned officer ranks in the Regular Forces of the Tri-Services will successfully complete 
the academic & military components of studies pertaining to the degree programmes by the General Sir John Kotelawala 
Defence University Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto.
3. The degree programmes applicable to the Officer Cadets that will be conducted at KDU– Ratmalana 
Degree        Duration (Years)
 i. Bachelor of Science in Strategic Studies and International Relations 03
 ii. Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) 05
 iii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Aeronautical Engineering 04
 iv. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Biomedical Engineering 04
 v. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Building Services Engineering 04
 vi. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Civil Engineering 04
 vii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Electrical and 
  Electronic Engineering 04 
 viii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Electronics & 
  Telecommunication Engineering 04
 ix. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Mechanical Engineering 04
 x. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Mechatronic Engineering 04
 xi. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Naval Architecture & 
  Marine Engineering 04
 xii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours Marine Engineering 04
 xiii.   Bachelor of Laws (LLB) 04
 xiv. Bachelor of Science Honours in Computer Science 04
 xv. Bachelor of Science Honours in Computer Engineering 04
 xvi. Bachelor of Science Honours in Software Engineering 04
 xvii. Bachelor of Science Honours in  Data Science and Business Analytics 04
 xviii. Science in Management Bachelor of & Technical Sciences 03
 xix.  Bachelor of Science in Logistics Management 03

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
779
 xx.  Bachelor of Science in Social Sciences 03
 xxi.  Bachelor of Arts Degree in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages 
  (TESOL) with Cambridge CELTA  03
 xxii. Bachelor of Science Honours in Financial Analytics 04
 xxiii. Bachelor of Science in Police Science 03
 xxiv. Bachelor of Science in Criminology and Criminal Justice 03
 xxv.  Bachelor of Engineering Technology Honours in Construction Technology 04
The degree programmes applicable to the Officer Cadets that will be conducted at Southern Campus – Sooriyawewa.
   Degree       Duration (Years)
 xxvi. Bachelor of Architecture Honours       05
 xxvii. Bachelor of Science Honours in Quantity Surveying     04
 xxviii. Bachelor of Science Honours in Surveying Sciences     04
 xxix. Bachelor of Science Honours in Geoinformatics      04
 xxx. Bachelor of Science Honours in Information Technology    04
 xxxi. Bachelor of Science Honours in Information Systems    04
           
• Selected Officer Cadets will be assigned for a mandatory military intensive course for a maximum period of six 
months prior to the commencement of degree programmes.
3.1 The allocation of Officer Cadets for the Armed Forces will be based on the availability of vacancies in each Service, 
the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews conducted for selection and the minimum physical standards and 
other requirements of each service. Officer Cadets will be commissioned in the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka Army, 
Navy and Air Force after successful completion of the relevant degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the academic and military training components of the respective degree programmes, the 
Officer Cadets will be awarded one of the following degrees:
 i. Bachelor of Science in Strategic Studies and International Relations  
 ii. Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS)    
 iii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Aeronautical Engineering 
 iv. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Biomedical Engineering  
 v. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Building Services Engineering
 vi. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Civil Engineering   
 vii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Electrical and Electronic Engineering
 viii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering
 ix. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Mechanical Engineering   
 x. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Mechatronic Engineering 
 xi. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering
 xii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours Marine Engineering   
 xiii. Bachelor of Laws (LLB)        
 xiv. Bachelor of Science Honours in Computer Science     
 xv. Bachelor of Science Honours in Computer Engineering    
 xvi. Bachelor of Science Honours in Software Engineering     
 xvii. Bachelor of Science Honours in  Data Science and Business Analytics 
 xviii. Bachelor of Science in Management & Technical Sciences  
 xix. Bachelor of Science in Logistics Management      
 xx. Bachelor of Science in Social Sciences       
 xxi. Bachelor of Arts Degree in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) with Cambridge 
CELTA       
 xxii. Bachelor of Science Honours in Financial Analytics     
 xxiii. Bachelor of Science in Police Science       
 xxiv. Bachelor of Science in Criminology and Criminal Justice 
Degree        Duration (Years)

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
780
 xxv. Bachelor of Engineering Technology Honours in Construction Technology  
 xxvi. Bachelor of Architecture Honours       
 xxvii. Bachelor of Science Honours in Quantity Surveying     
 xxviii. Bachelor of Science Honours in Surveying Sciences     
 xxix. Bachelor of Science Honours in Geoinformatics      
 xxx. Bachelor of Science Honours in Information Technology    
 xxxi. Bachelor of Science Honours in Information Systems     
      
3.3 All degree programmes are conducted only in the medium of English.
3.4 Selected candidates will be allowed to follow one of the following Bachelor’s Degree Programmes in accordance with 
their qualifications:
 i. Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Strategic Studies and International Relations – Three years (Male/Female)
 
  For those who have followed Any Stream at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three 
Simple Passes (S) at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university admission or 
obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) or equivalent foreign examination com-
pleted during the period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025.The results should be in one and the same sitting and 
a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 ii. Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) – Five years (Male & Female)
  For those who have followed Biological Science Stream (Biology, Chemistry and Physics) at the Advanced 
Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass (S) in each of the 
three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2024  and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a minimum 
of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) Examination completed during the period  
from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three 
attempts are allowed.
 iii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Aeronautical Engineering -Four years (Male & 
Female)
  For those who have followed Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) 
at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass 
(S) in each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) Examination 
completed during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 iv. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Biomedical Engineering- Four years (Male)
  For those who have followed Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) 
at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass 
(S) in each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) Examination  
from completed during the period 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 v. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Building Services Engineering -Four years (Male & 
Female)
  For those who have followed Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) 
at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass 
(S) in each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) Examination 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
781
completed during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 vi. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Civil Engineering- Four years (Male & Female)
For those who have followed Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) 
at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass 
(S) in each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) examination 
completed during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 vii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Electrical & Electronic Engineering- Four years 
(Male)
  For those who have followed Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) 
at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass 
(S) in each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) examination 
completed during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 viii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Electronic & Telecommunication Engineering- Four 
years (Male & Female)
  For those who have followed Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) 
at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass 
(S) in each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) examination 
completed during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 ix. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Mechanical Engineering- Four years (Male & Female)
  For those who have followed Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) 
at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass 
(S) in each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) examination 
completed during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 x. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Mechatronic Engineering- Four years (Male & 
Female)
For those who have followed Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) 
at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass 
(S) in each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) examination 
completed during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 xi. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours in Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering- Four 
years (Male & Female)
For those who have followed Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) 
at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
782
(S) in each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) examination 
completed during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 xii. Bachelor of the Science of Engineering  Honours in Marine Engineering - Four years (Male/Female)
For those who have followed Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) 
at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least minimum two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass 
(S) in each of the three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university 
admission or obtained a minimum of two “B” Passes and one “C” Pass at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) examination 
completed during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 xiii. Bachelor of Laws (LLB) - Four years (Male & Female)
For those who have followed Biological Science or Physical Science or Commerce or Arts Stream at the 
Advanced Level Examination and obtained a minimum of two Credit Passes (C) and one Simple Pass (S) in 
the following lists at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024, and are eligible to apply for university admission 
or obtained a minimum of three “C” Passes in the following lists at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent 
foreign examination completed during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results should be in one 
and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
Accounting    Biology                     
Agricultural Science   Geography 
Psychology   Higher Mathematics   
Business Statistics   Law   
Business Studies   Logic & Scientific Method  
History   Economics
Physics   Chemistry        
Computer Science   Communication & Media Studies 
Mathematics/Combined Mathematics     Sociology 
Political Science   Information & Communication Technology  
     
Candidates should have followed either three (03) subjects, or one (01) or two (02) subjects, from the 
above list and the other subject/ subjects from the following list at the A/L Examination.  
Buddhism/ Buddhist Civilization   Spanish   
Tamil      Christianity / Christian Civilization  
Hinduism / Hindu Civilization   Sanskrit  
Greek & Roman Civilization   Islam / Islamic Civilization 
French       Japanese     
Chinese      Sinhala   
English (Subject No. 73 in G.C.E A/L)  Pali    
Arabic      German    
English Literature    Hindi     
Classical Studies     Global Perspectives & Research
Russian
 In addition, candidates should obtain at least a Credit Pass (C) in Sinhala/Tamil at the G.C.E. (O/L) 
examination.
Selected candidates with foreign A/L qualifications are required to obtain a minimum Credit pass (C)  for 
Sinhala/Tamil Language at the GCE O/L examination, within two (02) years from the enrolment. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
783
 xiv. Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Computer Science – Four years (Male)
  For those who have followed Physical Science Stream at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least 
a Credit Pass (C) in Combined Mathematics or Higher Mathematics or Physics; and
At least Simple Passes (S) in two other subjects listed below at the at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and 
are eligible to apply for University 
1. Combined Mathematics
2. Higher Mathematics
3. Mathematics
4. Physics
5. Chemistry
6. Information & Communication Technology;
or
Minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination completed 
during the period from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025, in the relevant stream.
The results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 xv. Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Software Engineering – Four years (Male)
For those who have followed Physical Science Stream at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least 
a Credit Pass (C) in Combined Mathematics or Higher Mathematics or Physics; and
At least Simple Passes (S) in two other subjects listed below at the at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and 
are eligible to apply for University 
1. Combined Mathematics
2. Higher Mathematics
3. Mathematics
4. Physics
5. Chemistry
6. Information & Communication Technology;
or
Minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination completed 
during the period  from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025, in the relevant stream.
The results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 xvi. Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Computer Engineering – Four years (Male)
For those who have followed Physical Science Stream at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained at least a 
Credit Pass (C) in Combined Mathematics or Higher Mathematics or Physics; and
At least Simple Passes (S) in two other subjects listed below at the at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and 
are eligible to apply for University 
1. Combined Mathematics
2. Higher Mathematics
3. Mathematics
4. Physics
5. Chemistry
6. Information & Communication Technology;
or

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
784
Minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination completed 
during the period  from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025, in the relevant stream.
The results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 xvii. Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in  Data Science and Business Analytics – Four years (Male)
For those who have followed Physical Science Stream at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained a 
minimum of a Credit Pass (C) in Combined Mathemaics and a  two Simple Passes (S) in any two of the 
subjects of Chemistry/ Physics/ Higher Mathematics/ Mathematics/ICT at the G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 
2024 and are eligible to apply for University Admission or obtained a minimum of a “C” Passes in Combined 
Mathemaics/ Mathemaics and two Simple (D) Pass in any two of these subjects of   Chemistry/Physics/Higher 
Mathematics /ICT  at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination completed during the period   
from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025.
The results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed. 
 xviii. Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Logistics Management - Three years (Male & Female)
For those who have followed Biological Science/ Physical Science or Commerce Stream at the Advanced 
Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 
and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/
Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination completed during the period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. 
The results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 xix.  Bachelor of Science (BSc)  in Management & Technical Sciences – Three years (Male & Female)
For those who have followed Biological Science & Physical Science Stream at the Advanced Level 
Examination, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are 
eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes (Physics & Chemistry 
are mandatory to pass) at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination completed during the 
period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025.  The results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of 
three attempts are allowed. 
 xx. Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Social Sciences – Three years (Male & Female) 
For those who have followed Any Stream at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three 
Simple Passes (S) at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university admission 
or obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination 
completed during the period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025.  The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 xxi. Bachelor of Arts in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) - Three years (Male & 
Female)
For those who have followed Any Stream at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three 
Simple Passes (S) at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university admission 
or obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination 
completed during the period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025.  The results should be in one and the same sitting 
and a maximum of three attempts are allowed. 
The candidate should have obtained a minimum of a Very Good Pass (B ) in English at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination. or minimum of a Very Good Pass (B) Pass in English at the Cambridge / Edexcel or 
equivalent foreign O/L Examination.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
785
 xxii. Bachelor of Science Honours in Financial Analytics– Four years (Male)
          For those who have followed Biological Science/ Physical Science/ Technology or Commerce Stream at 
the Advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 
(2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes 
at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination completed during the period   from 20.07.2024 
to 06.06.2025.  The results should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
They should also have obtained a  minimum of a Credit Pass (C ) for Mathematics at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination or minimum of a Credit Pass (C ) for Mathematics at the Cambridge / Edexcel or equivalent 
foreign O/L qualification.
 xxiii. Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Police Science - Three years (Male)
For those who have followed Biological Science / Physical Science/ Commerce or Arts stream at the 
Advanced Level Examination , obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) for three subjects from the 
following lists at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university admission or 
obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes for three of the following subjects at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or 
equivalent foreign examination completed during the period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025.  The results 
should be in one and the same sitting and a maximum of three attempts are allowed.
 List ‘A’
Accounting  Chemistry 
Geography  Mathematics / Combined Mathematics
Business Statistics Information & Communication Technology
Logic & Scientific Method  Agricultural Science 
Physics  Higher Mathematics 
Communications & Media Studies     Business Studies 
Political Science  Economics 
Biology  History
Psychology Law
Sociology Computer Science 
Either all the three subjects or one subject or two subjects from the above list (list ‘A’) and the  other 
subject/ subjects from the following list (list ‘B’) at the A/L Examination.(list ‘B’) 
 List ‘B’
Buddhism/ Buddhist Civilization   Islam / Islamic Civilization 
Pali   Chinese
Hindi German
Christianity / Christian Civilization       Tamil
Greek and Roman Civilization  French
Japanese  Sinhala
English(Subject No.73 G.C.E. A/L) Arabic
Sanskrit Global Perpectives & Research
Hinduism / Hindu Civilization   Agro – Technology
Classical Studies Art
English Literature  Drama & Theatre
Spanish Russian
Dancing     
Music (Western / Eastern)   
In addition, candidates should obtain at least a Credit Pass (C) in Sinhala or Tamil  subjects in G.C.E. 
(O/L) Examination.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
786
 xxiv. Bachelor of Science (BSc)  in Criminology and Criminal Justice – Three years (Male)
For those who have followed Biological Science / Physical Science/ Commerce or Arts stream at the 
Advanced Level Examination , obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) for three subjects from the 
following lists at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university admission or 
obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes for three of the following subjects (List A & B) at Cambridge/Edexcel 
(A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination completed during the period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025.  The 
results should be obtained in one sitting, and a maximum of three attempts is allowed.
  List ‘A’
Accounting  Chemistry 
Geography  Mathematics / Combined Mathematics
Business Statistics Information & Communication Technology
Logic & Scientific Method  Agricultural Science 
Physics  Higher Mathematics 
Communications & Media Studies     Business Studies 
Political Science  Economics 
Biology  History
Psychology Law
Sociology Computer Science 
Either all the three subjects or one subject or two subjects from the above list (list ‘A’) and the  other 
subject/ subjects from the following list (list ‘B’) at the A/L Examination.(list ‘B’) 
   List ‘B’
Buddhism/ Buddhist Civilization   Islam / Islamic Civilization 
Pali   Chinese
Hindi German
Christianity / Christian Civilization   Tamil
Greek and Roman Civilization French
Japanese Sinhala
English (Subject No.73 G.C.E. A/L) Arabic
Sanskrit Global Perpectives & Research
Hinduism / Hindu Civilization Agro – Technology
Classical Studies Art
English Literature Drama & Theatre
Spanish Russian
Dancing     
Music (Western / Eastern)
In addition, candidates should obtain at least a Credit Pass (C) in Sinhala or Tamil  subjects in G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination.
 xxv. Bachelor of Engineering Technology Honours in Construction Technology – Four years (Male)
  For those who have followed the Physical Science Stream (Chemistry, Physics, and Combined Mathematics) 
or in the Technology Stream including (Engineering Technology, Science for Technology and one other 
subject) at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum  of three Simple Passes (S) at G.C.E. (A/L) 
in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a minimum of three “D” 
Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination completed during the period   from 
20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results must be obtained in a single sitting, and a maximum of three attempts is 
permitted.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
787
 xxvi. Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) Honours – Five years (Male & Female)
For those who have followed Biological Science, Physical Science, Arts or  Other streams at the Advanced 
Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) for three of the following subjects (List I 
& II)  at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024  and are eligible to apply for university admission or obtained a 
minimum of three “D” Passes for three of the following subjects (List I & II) at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or 
equivalent foreign examination completed during the period  from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results must 
be obtained in a single sitting, and a maximum of three attempts is permitted.
   List I
i) At least one of the following subjects;
Biology  Art 
Higher Mathematics Geography
Chemistry  
Physics 
Combined Mathematics 
  and
    List II
 ii) The remaining subject / subjects from the following list;
Accounting     Logic & Scientific Method
Hindu Civilization    Mathematics  
Business Statistics    Sanskrit
Islamic Civilization   German   
Greek & Roman Civilization   Arabic   
Elements of Political Science   History  
English (Subject No.73 G.C.E. A/L) Business Studies    
Sinhala    Japanese
Christian Civilization    Economics 
Communication & Media Studies Pali
Hindi    French
Buddhist Civilization   Tamil
Home Economics Information & Communication Technology 
Agricultural Science   Chinese
     and
 iii) At least a Credit Pass (C) in Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination or a Simple Pass 
(S) in Mathematics at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination or at least a “D” Pass in Mathematics at 
Cambridge/ Edexcel (O/L) Examination or a “D” Pass in Mathematics at Cambridge/ Edexcel (A/L) 
Examination. 
       and 
iv) Should pass the Spatial Cognition test conducted by the KDU.
 xxvii. Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Quantity Surveying – Four years (Male)
For those who have followed Physical Science or Other Stream at the Advanced Level Examination , obtained 
a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) for three of the following subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 
2024 and are eligible to apply for the university admission or obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes for 
three of the following subjects (List I &II) at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination 
completed during the period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results must be obtained in a single sitting, 
and a maximum of three attempts is permitted.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
788
    List I
At least one subject from,
Combined Mathematics/ Higher Mathematics
    and 
   List II
the other subject / subjects from the following list; 
Accounting     Economics  Business Statistics 
Business Studies    Physics  Chemistry 
Information & Communication Technology 
In addition, candidates should obtain a minimum of a Credit Pass (C) in Mathematics and a Simple pass (S) 
in Science at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination or a  minimum of “(D)” Passes in Mathematics and Science at 
the Cambridge / Edexcel or   equivalent foreign O/L qualification.
 xxviii. Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Surveying Sciences – Four years (Male) 
For those who have followed Physical Science or Other Stream at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained 
a minimum of three Simple Pass (S) for Physics, Combined Mathematics, and any one of the following 
subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for University Admission or obtained a 
minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) or equivalent foreign examination from 20.07.2024 
to 06.06.2025, for Physics, Combined Mathematics and  any other subject at the Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L) 
or equivalent foreign examination . The results must be obtained in a single sitting, and a maximum of three 
attempts is permitted.
Chemistry      History of India
Mathematics       History of Europe
Higher Mathematics      History of Modern World
Civil Technology      Home Economics
Mechanical Technology     Communiction & Media Studies
Electrical, Electronic and Information Technology  Business Statistics 
Information and Communication Technology  Business Studies
Economics      Accounting
Geography      Buddhism
Political       Hinduism
Logic and Scientific Method    Christianity
Islam       Greek and Roman Civilization
Buddhist Civilization      Cristian Civilization 
Hindu Civilization     Art
Islam Civilization     Korean 
Dancing Indigenous     Japanese
Dancing Bharatha     Chinese
Oriental Music      Hindi
Carnatic Music      Russian
Western Music      German
Drama and Theatre Sinhala    French
Drama and Theatre Tamil     Malay
Drama and Theatre English    Pali
Sinhala       Arabic
Tamil       Sanskrit  
English (Subject No.73 G.C.E. A/L)      

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
789
 xxix. Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Geoinformatics -  Four years (Male)
  For those who have followed any stream (Physical Science/ Biological Science/ Commerce/ Arts/ Technology 
or other (Common Basket in following subjects)  at the Advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of 
three Simple Passes (S) at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) or 2024 and are eligible to apply for the university 
admission or obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign 
examination completed during the period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results must be obtained in a 
single sitting, and a maximum of three attempts is permitted.
             Physics                                 Hinduism
Chemistry               Christianity
Mathematics             Islam
Agricultural Science            Buddhist Civilization
Biology          Hindu Civilization
Combined Mathematics       Islam Civilization
Higher Mathematics             Greek and Roman Civilization
Civil Technology                    Art  
Mechanical Technology       Dancing Indigenous
Electrical, Electronic and Information Technology    Dancing Bharatha
Food Technology                                                        Oriental Music
Agro Technology      Carnatic Music
Bio Resource Technology                  Western Music
Information & Communication Technology       Drama and Theatre Sinhala
Economics                Drama and Theatre Tamil
Geography               Drama and Theatre English
Political Science                 Engineering Technology
Logic and Scientific Method             Biosystems Technology
History of India                                        Science for Technology
History of Europe                                          Sinhala
History of Modern World                              Tamil
Home Economics                English
Communication & Media Studies              Pali
Business Statistics                        Sanskrit
Business Studies                               Arabic
Accounting                                           Malay
               Buddhism              French
               German                    Korean
              Russian                     Hindi 
               Chinese                                           Japanese 
               Christian Civilization
In addition, candidates should obtain a minimum of a Credit Pass (C) in Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination.or minimum of a  “D” Pass in Mathematics at the Cambridge / Edexcel or equivalent foreign 
O/L qualification.
 xxx. Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Information Technology – Four years (Male)
  For those who have followed the  Biological Science/ Physical Science / Commerce/Arts  Stream at the 
Advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) 
or 2024 and are eligible to apply for the university admission 
or 
Technology stream (Information and Communication Technology (ICT ) and any other two subjects) 
or 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
790
obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination 
completed during the period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results must be obtained in a single sitting, 
and a maximum of three attempts is permitted.
 xxxi. Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Information Systems – Four years (Male)
For those who have followed the Biological Science/ Physical Science / Commerce/Arts  Stream at the 
Advanced Level Examination, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) at G.C.E. (A/L) in 2023 (2024) 
or 2024 and are eligible to apply for the university admission 
or 
Technology stream (Information and Communication Technology (ICT ) and any other two subjects) 
or 
obtained a minimum of three “D” Passes at Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign examination 
completed during the period   from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025. The results must be obtained in a single sitting, 
and a maximum of three attempts is permitted. 
3.5 Selected Officer Cadets must follow common subjects relevant to the degree programme and it is mandatory 
to follow English, Management, Information Technology, Law, International Relations and military 
subjects. 
3.6 In addition, all selected Officer Cadets must continuously follow exercises, drill activities, weapon training and 
leadership course during their training.
4. a) Basic eligibility requirements for Officer Cadets:
The candidate should -
 i. be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
 ii. be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of age by 06.06.2025;
 iii. have passed the G.C.E. A/L Common General Test (within 3 sitting)  (Minimum 30 Marks);
 iv. be eligible to apply for university admission in Sri Lanka,(If he /she is a G.C.E. A/L candidate);
 v. be unmarried (No Officer Cadet will be permitted to get married whilst under training and until permitted to 
do so by service regulations).
      b)  Other eligibility requirements:
 i. Candidates who have sat for the 2023 (2024) or 2024 G.C.E. A/L examination (except for the MBBS Degree 
Programme). The G.C.E A/L year considered for MBBS degree programme is 2024.
 ii. Candidates who have sat and received results of the Cambridge/Edexcel (A/L)  or equivalent foreign 
examination  from 20.07.2024 to 06.06.2025 are eligible to apply for university admission and  are considered 
for all degree programmes. 
  
 iii. Obtained a minimum of a Credit (C) Pass for English Language at G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination or 
obtained a minimum of a “C” Pass for English Language at Cambridge / Edexcel or equivalent for all degree 
programmes except TESOL. Obtained a minimum of a Very Good (B) Pass for English Language at G.C.E. 
(Ordinary Level) Examination or Cambridge / Edexcel  or equivalent O/L examination for BA in Teaching 
English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) .
 iv. Educational qualifications for the Sri Lanka Air Force 
  Minimum of six Credit (C) Passes at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination with compulsory Credit (C) Passes for 
English Language, Science and Mathematics and a Simple (S) Pass or above for Sinhala / Tamil Language 
in one sitting (additional and optional subjects are not considered). 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
791
 v.  Educational qualifications for the Sri Lanka Navy 
  Obtained a Credit (C) pass for Mother tongue, English Language and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination. 
 vi. Candidates who have Cambridge/ Edexcel or any other equivalent foreign qualifications should have obtained 
a “C” Pass for the Sinhala/Tamil Language at the local G.C.E (O/L) Examination. (Applicable only for the 
selected degree programmes) If the candidate has not sat for the local G.C.E. (O/L) Examination at the time 
of submitting application, he/she should obtain a “C” Pass for the Sinhala/Tamil Language within two years 
after enlistment as an Officer Cadet. If the candidate fails to fulfil the above requirement within the specified 
time, he/she will be discharged from the respective service.
c) The following minimum physical standards should be satisfied:
Army Navy Air Force
Male Female Male Female Male Female
Height
MBBS 5’ 6” 5’ 3” 168 cm 160 cm 5’ 5’’  and above 
(165 cm)
5’ 3’’  and above 
(160 cm)
Other 
Degrees 5’ 6” 5’ 3”
168 cm 
(171 cm 
for Provost 
Branch)
160 cm 
(163 cm 
for Provost 
Branch)
5’ 5’’  and above 
(165 cm)
5’ 3’’  and above 
(160 cm)
Weight 50 Kg - 52 kg 41kg - -
BMI - - 17 - 27 17 - 27 <26 and >17 <25 and >17
Chest 32” 
(Unexpanded) - 81 cm - 32”
(Min. 81 cm) -
Vision
Army Navy Air Force
L R CP L R CV L R CP
Professional 
Category
Without  
Lenses 6/18 6/18 CP 2 6/6 6/6
By 
Ishihara’s 
plates
6/6 6/6 CP 2
Corrected 
Vision 6/6 6/6 CP 2 - - - - - -
With Lenses - - - - -  - - - -
Near Vision - - - By Jaegar chart 01 - - -
Other  
Category
Without  
Lenses 6/9 6/6 CP 2 6/6 6/6 CP 2 6/6 6/6 CP 2
Candidates who have undergone eye surgeries for vision correction or enhancement procedures should have 
completed a minimum of six (06) months by the closing date of applications.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
792
d. Degrees Programmes of Professional Category 
Service Degree
SL Army MBBS , BSc Eng(Hons), 
SL Navy MBBS
SL Air Force MBBS
Degree Programmes of Other Category
All other degree programmes which are not mentioned in the above table.  
Special Note: 
*If a candidate possesses National Level Places in U – 17/ U – 19 level or National Colours in U – 17/ U – 19 level 
in Sports or is a President’s Scout/Prime Minister’s Scout/President’s Guide/ Prime Minister’s Guide/Cadet Under 
Officer (Senior/Junior)/Cadet Sergeant, the above physical standards may be relaxed by the selection committee of 
the Final Interview appointed by the Board of Management, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
If a candidate has won National Level Places U – 17/ U – 19 level in Sports, he/she should have obtained places as 
follows:
  Individual Event   – 1st/2nd/3rd Places
  Group Event          – Champion/ 1st Runners Up
*When a candidate possesses a Z-Score of 1.80 or above at the G.C.E (A/L) examination and applies for the MBBS or 
BSc(Hons) Engineering Degree Programme (only for the Sri Lanka Army), physical standards for height are relaxed 
as to  5’4” or above for male candidates and 5’2” or above for female candidates.
*A candidate is required to fulfil the specifications of visual acuity evidence stipulated by respective services.
e) Candidates should conform to the required medical standards - successful candidates are required to pass a 
medical test following the submission of a Medical Declaration Form in the prescribed format to the satisfaction of 
the Secretary, Ministry of Defence who is the Chairman of the Board of Management, General Sir John Kotelawala 
Defence University. If a candidate is found to have provided false information in the Medical Declaration Form prior 
to the selection, such candidate shall be disqualified and be liable to be discharged on the grounds of the provision of 
false information. The Medical Declaration Form can be downloaded from the university website.
(www.kdu.ac.lk)
5. Condition of Service  - Selected candidates will be enlisted as Officer Cadets of General Sir John Kotelawala Defence 
University, Ratmalana, its Southern Campus and Sooriyawewa.They will be subjected to laws, regulations and 
orders made or given under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent 
amendments thereto. 
An Officer Cadet enlisted to follow the MBBS degree programme shall serve in an Armed Service for a continuous and 
uninterrupted period of not less than Twenty (20) years from the date on which he/she is commissioned as an officer in 
the respective service.
An Officer Cadet enlisted to follow other degree programmes shall serve in the Armed Service in to which he/she is 
commissioned as an officer for a continuous and uninterrupted period of not less than twelve (12) years from the date 
on which he/she is commissioned as an Officer in the respective Service. 
Besides, the degree will not be conferred on any Officer Cadet who is discharged on medical grounds or any other 
condition during the academic period.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
793
6. At the time of enlistment, selected candidates will have to enter into a bond and an agreement with the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory period as aforesaid after being graduating in the respective 
degree programmes.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid approximately Rs. 105,000/= (including ration allowance) per month as pay and allowances. 
In addition, the following facilities will be provided free of charge:
(i) Lodging
(ii) Uniforms 
(iii) Batman facilities 
(iv) Sports & recreational facilities 
(v) Medical facilities
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy and Air Force they will be entitled to a  pay 
and allowances appropriate to the rank in accordance with the service:
a. The following allowances are payable monthly:
 (i) Qualification allowance
 (ii) Ration allowance 
 (iii) Disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for married officers only)
 (iv) Uniform up keep allowance
b. Other facilities and allowances:
 (i) Accommodation when ordered to live in
 (ii) Limited rent allowance for married officers
 (iii) Uniform allowance
 (iv) Batman allowance for unmarried officers and Batman services for married officers 
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed by the following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and 
conditions of service:
 i. The Army/Navy/Air Force pay code
 ii. Current regulations for officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force published in the Sri Lanka Government 
Gazette
 iii. Current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuity Code published in the Sri Lanka Government 
Gazette
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Vice 
Chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University and/or respective Service Commanders. 
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for training in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
12. Officer Cadets under training will be required to stay, in the accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down 
by General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University or by the respective service establishments.
13. Language Requirements - Selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules and regulations already made 
or that may hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Proof of Identity - Candidates will be required to produce proof of their national identity. Identity cards issued by the 
Department of Registration of Persons or the Post Master-General, a valid passport or a driving license issued by the 
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic will be accepted for this purpose.
15.  Applications –Visit University the website, www.kdu.ac.lk to apply online. 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'05'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2025
794
i) You should apply for degree programmes online only, by visiting www.kdu.ac.lk. A demonstration of the online 
application process is available on the KDU website for your convenience. Follow the instructions on the 
university website to fill the application online, and applications by post will not be accepted.
ii) Candidates should make a non-refundable fee of LKR 2000/= (Sri Lanka Rupees) per degree programme via 
online as an application processing fee. 
16.   The applications without basic qualifications and that are not duly filled in accordance with the conditions mentioned 
herein will be rejected without notification and in such instances, the application fee will not be refunded. A board 
appointed by the Vice Chancellor will review all applications received and shortlist them according to the qualifications 
of the candidates. Those who are shortlisted will be called for the preliminary interview. 
 Duly filled online applications should be forwarded through the KDU website on or before  06.06.2025 Late 
applications and applicants who do not comply with the conditions mentioned here will be rejected.   
17. Applicants from Government Service and Corporations or Statutory Bodies should forward their applications via 
online. However, they should produce a certificate issued by the relevant Heads of the Departments/ Corporations/ 
Statutory Bodies or relevant institutional head at the Preliminary Interview to the effect that the Officer would be 
released if selected.
18. Preliminary selection will be made from among those candidates who have achieved the required standards in 
accordance with the evaluation criteria determined by the Selection Committee appointed by the Board of Management 
of General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University. Candidates who are selected from the first interview will be 
required to undergo the Officer Quality Test (OQT) as may be prescribed by the Board of Management of General Sir 
John Kotelawala Defence University. The final selection will be made by the Final Selection Committee appointed by 
the Board of Management of General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.   
19. Candidates who are selected for interviews and the Officer Quality Test (OQT) will be informed via KDU website of 
the venues, times and the dates of such interviews. Travelling or other expenses for this purpose will not be paid to 
applicants.
20. General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University shall not be held liable for any injuries sustained by candidates 
whilst undergoing the Officer Quality Test/ Military Training and no candidate shall make any claim whatsoever from 
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University or the Government of Sri Lanka for any injuries sustained whilst 
undergoing the Officer Quality Test/ Military Training.
21. Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him/her a testimonial. Any form of canvassing 
would be considered as a disqualification.
22. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. No correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with regard to 
rejected applications.
23. If a disparity exists between the Sinhala Language and Tamil Language in the Gazette notification, you are hereby 
requested to follow the instructions as per the Gazette notification in the Sinhala language. 
 Air Vice Marshal Sampath Thuyacontha (Retd) 
 WWV , RWP and two Bars, RSP and Bar, USP, MMSc (Strat Stu-China), 
 MSc (Def Stu) in Mgt, MSc (Def & Strat Stu), fndu (China), psc
 Secretary, Ministry of Defence and
 Chairman of the Board of Management
 General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
05-130
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.