

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1890$35 - 2014 fkdjeïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'11'28
No.1890/35  -  FRIDAY   NOVEMBER   28,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
 SABARAGAMUW A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Co-operative Employees’ Pension Schemes Statute No. 02 of 2014 of the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council
REGULA TIONS made by Me, the Chief Minister of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council and Minister in charge of the
subjects of Law and Order, Finance and Planning, Local Government, Health and Indigenous Medicine, Women Affairs,
Co-operatives, Trade and Food, Passenger Transport and Estate Welfare, Environment, News, Housing and Construction
under Section 24 of the Co-operative Employees' Pension Scheme Statute, No. 02 of 2014 of the said Provincial Council.
M
AHEEPALA HERATH,
  Chief Minister and Minister in charge of the subjects of  Law and Order,
Finance and Planning, Local Government, Health and Indigenous Medicine,
Women Affairs, Co-operatives, Trade and Food, Passenger Transport and
Estate Welfare, Enviornment, News, Housing and
Construction of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
At Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council,
11th November, 2014.
REGULA TIONS
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1. These regulations shall be referred to as the regulations of the Co-operative Employees' Pension
Scheme Statute No. 02 of 2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
2. I. Any person who is employed in any Co-operative Society or Union registered under the
Co-operative Act, No. 05 of 1972 as amended by Acts, No. 32 of 1983 and No. 11 of 1992 and
registered  in the  Sabaragamuwa  Province  under the Sabaragamuwa  Provincial Co-operative
Statute No. 03 of 1994 and No. 03 of 2007 and has received a permanent appointment within
the meaning as stipulated in the co-operative employees’ service commission Act, No.12 of
1972 as amended by Act No. 51 of 1992 (hereinafter referred to as the “employee”) shall be
eligible to contribute to the co-operative employees’ pension scheme.
Short title.
Eligibility to
contribute.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014
2A
II. Notwithstanding anything to the Contrary in 2.1 above, the persons employed in any
co-operative society or union on the date of this co-operative employees’ pension scheme
statute No. 02 of 2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council coming into operation, who
have not received a permanent appointment as stipulated in 2.1 above shall be entitled to the
benefits of this scheme as personal to them, if they have received the approval of the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Co-operative Employees’ Service Commission as personal to them
for the confirmation of service and if there are excess employees and made them permanent on
the basis of excess employees.
III. Those employees who recruited after the date of this scheme coming into operation should be
within the approved cadre and approved by the co-operative employees’ commission.
3. I. (a) Any person who has been in service on the date of this scheme coming  into operation and
is entitled to join the scheme, should intimate his willingness to contribute to the pension
scheme.
(b) Any person entitled to join the scheme shall for the purpose of joining the scheme complete
the application prescribed for the purpose by the director of the scheme (hereinafter referred
to as the director) shall submit it to the authorized official within the period of time prescribed
by the director.
(c) The period of time referred to in 3.I(b) above shall not exceed more than 06 months from the
date of the scheme coming into operation.
II. The employees who have joined or will join the permanent employment after the date of this
scheme coming into operation and  prior to coming into effect of these regulations shall complete
the application prescribed for the purpose by the director of the scheme and shall submit it to
the official  authorized by the director within 90 days from these  regulations coming into effect
or from the date of appointment which ever occurs later.
III. Any people who joins the scheme after these regulations coming into effect, shall complete the
application prescribed for the purpose by the director of the scheme and shall submit it to the
official authorized by the director within 90 days from date of recruitment to the scheme.
          4. I. The authorized official shall on the receipt on an application, verify the authenticity and the
accuracy of the particulars furnished by the applicant and shall submit same together with his
recommendation to the director within thirty (30) days of receipt of such application.
II. The applicant upon whose application being approved the director, shall be deemed as the
contributor to the scheme.
III. Any application to contribute to the scheme may be rejected on anyone or more of the following
grounds:-
(a) If is not an employee as stipulated in Sections 2.1 and 2.11 of these regulations.
(b) If is below 18 years or below 60 years of age.
(c) If the application is incomplete.
(d) If furnished false particulars.
(e) If the application is not submitted  within the prescribed period stipulated in the regulations.
IV . Rejection of an application shall be determined with the concurrence of the advisory
committee of the scheme (hereinafter referred to as the advisory committee). When a decision
is taken to reject any application The director shall within 30 days intimate such decision to
the applicant concerned.
       5. I. Every contributor who joins the scheme shall make an initial payment of Rs. 5000/- and a
monthly contribution equivalent to 5% of  his/her monthly consolidated salary and shall authorize
in writing the employer society or the union to deduct such contribution from his/her monthly
salary and remit same to the director.
To intimate
willingness and
application
To deem as a
contributor
contribution
Rejection of
application.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014
II. The employer society or the union or the employee shall pay to the director in full or installments
a sum of Rs. 5000/- in respect of each contributor who joins the scheme within a period of time
as required by the director.  However, such period shall not exceed  6 months and the employer
society or union shall pay the scheme a monthly contribution equivalent to 2.5% of his/her
monthly salary.
III. The employer society or the union shall remit the monthly contribution deducted from the
salary of the contributor to the director on or before the last day of the following month.
IV . The co-operative societies or union, which fails to remit contributions to the director as prescribed
in 5.111 above, shall be liable to a fine as follows and such society or union shall pay such fine
to the director on the date as required by the director.
Delay less than 10 days 05%
Delay from 11 days to 1 month 10%
Delay from 1 month to 3 months 15%
Delay from 3 months to 6 months 20%
Delay from 6 months to 12 months 30%
Delay more than 12 months 50%
6. Every contributor who joins the scheme shall compulsory complete the payments of 60 monthly
contributions to the director to be entitled to the pension.
I.  (a) In the case of any contributor who is above the age of 55 years on the date of coming into
operation of the pension scheme, if he fails to make the minimum contribution in 60
installments, the contributor shall pay in full or in installments the balance contribution
outstanding based on his last drawn salary before he reaches 60 years of age.
(b) Provided that if any contributor is unable to pay the minimum contribution in full before he
reaches 60 years of age due to any reason, such contributor shall be entitled to pay such
contribution in full within a maximum period of 1 year from his retirement.
(c) Any contributor who completes the payment of contribution under 6.1(a) and 6.1(b) above
shall be entitled to the pension as stipulated in table 02 of schedule A of these regulations.
II. (a) Any employee who was in service on the date of this pension statute coming into operation
and has retired on the date of these regulations coming into effect and who has contributed
to the pension scheme, shall make the minimum contribution of 60 installments based on his
last drawn salary in full or in installments within a period of 01 year.
(b) Any contributor who completes the payment of contribution under 6.II(a) above,  shall be
entitled to the pension as stipulated in table 2 of schedule A of these regulations.
(c) In the case of any contributor who is not more than 55 years of age on his next birthday at
the time of joining the scheme, such contributor shall make the minimum contribution as
stipulated in table 01 of schedule A of these regulations and shall be entitled to a pension as
given in column IV of that table.
7. In the case of any contributor who has retired on medical grounds,
(I) If he is more than 50 years of age at his retirement and has made the minimum contribution of
60 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to a pension on reaching 60 years of age.
Contribution of
the  society or
union
Minimum
contribution and
entitlement of
pension
Benefits under
medical grounds
To impose fine
Remittance of
contribution
4  —  PG  2261

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014
4A
(II) If he is less than 50 years of age at his retirement and has made a minimum contribution of
120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to a pension on  reaching 60 years of
age;
(III) Provided however, that such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment
the contribution he has so far made together with the relevant interest thereon if he so
wishes on the approval of the advisory committee;
(IV) The contributor shall be entitled only to receive either a pension under Section 7.I or 7.II or
a lump sum payment under Section 7.III;
(V) as for a contributor who is above the age of  50 years and has not even made the minimum
contribution of 60 installments such contributor shall be entitled to receive a pension on
reaching 60 years of age if he completes the payment of contribution outstanding in full or
in installments within a period of time as required by the director. The period to make the
outstanding ,contribution shall be one year from the date of his reaching the age of 60 years
or from the date on which such payment is prescribed whichever occurs earlier;
(VI) As for a contributor who is below the age of  50 years and has not even made the minimum
contribution of 120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum
payment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon on the concurrence of the
advisory committee;
(VII) If no claim is made under 7.V above, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a
lumpsum payment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon on the concurrence
of  the advisory committee.
8. I Any contributor who resigns from the co-operative service prior to his entitlement to the
pension shall be deemed to have resigned from the scheme and on a written request made
by him to the director shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment his net contribution
and the relevant interest thereon as determined by the director with the concurrence of the
advisory committee.
II. When any employee is temporary away from the co-operative service on no-pay leave
formerly approved for foreign employment, such period on no-pay leave shall not be counted
for the pension and no contribution shall be made for such period.
9. When the registration of any co-operative society or union has been cancelled for the purpose of
liquidation, and if the contributor has made contributions up to the date of such cancelation:-
I. if the contributor is above 50 years of age on the date of cancellation of registration of any
society or union and has made at least 60 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to
a pension on reaching 60 years of age;
II. if the contributor is below 50 years of age on the date of cancellation of registration of any
society or union and has made at least 120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to
a pension on reaching 60 years of age;
III. provided however, that such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment
the contribution he has so far made together with the relevant interest thereon if he so
wishes on the advice of the advisory committee;
I V . the contributor shall be entitled only to receive either a pension under Section 9.I or 9.II or
a lumpsum payment under Section 9.III;
Benefits to
contributor of a
society or union
of which
registration is
cancelled.
When on no-pay
leave
Benefits when
resigned from
service

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014
V. as a contributor who is above the age of 50  years and has not even made the minimum
contribution of  60 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to receive a pension on
reaching 60 years of age if he completes the payment of contribution outstanding in full or
in installments within a period of time as required by the director. The period to make the
outstanding contribution shall be one year from the  date of his reaching the age of  60 years
or from the date on which such payment is prescribed whichever occurs earlier;
VI. as for a contributor who is below the age of 50 years and has not even made the minimum
contribution of 120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum
payment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon with the concurrence of the
advisory committee.
VII. if no claim is made under 9.V above, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a
lumpsum payment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon with the concurrence
of the advisory committee.
10. Every contributor shall be entitled to a death gratuity as the case may be without making any
additional contribution to the scheme.
11. In the event of the death of a contributor who possesses a 
 period of service as mentioned in
column I of  the schedule B, the dependents of such contributor shall be entitled to receive a death
gratuity as given in the column II as follows:
I. if the deceased contributor is married -
(a) a half of the death gratuity shall be paid to the widow/widower and the other half shall be
paid equally to the unemployed, unmarried children.
(b) where there are no unemployed, unmarried children, the widow / widower shall be entitled
to the whole gratuity.
(c) if the widow/widower of the contributor is not· surviving, whole gratuity shall be divided
equally among unemployed unmarried children.
II. if the deceased contributor is unmarried;
(a) the death gratuity shall be equally divided between the parents of the contributor. If either
of them only is surviving, the death gratuity shall be paid to such parent.
(b)   if both parents are not surviving, the said gratuity shall be divided equal among unemployed,
unmarried of the contributor.
III. Where the minors of the contributor receive the death gratuity, such moneys shall be
deposited in a minors’ savings account in the Rural Bank/ National Savings Bank / People’s
Bank / Bank of Ceylon and shall be intimidated thereof to the guardians concerned and shall
be recorded. And the pass books / deposit certificate , shall be kept in safe and action shall
be taken to release them on demand Upon their reaching maturity.
IV . When irresolvable problems regarding the dependents arise, payments shall be made to
the dependents as may be determined by the director with the concurrence of the  advisory
committee.
Death gratuity
Entitlement to
receive the
death gratuity

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014
6A
12. When the dependents of the contributor becomes entitled to the death gratuity, such legal heir
shall inform the director of the death of the contributor within 90 days from the occurrence of the
death upon which  he becomes so entitled to the gratuity.
13.In the event of  the death of a contributor,  the director, on the determination of the advisory
committee shall pay the net contribution of such contributor together with the interest thereon to
the dependents of the contributor as a lumpsum payment as stipulated in the regulation II.
14.any contributor who has been forfeited the benefits under Section 14.II of the statute, may submit
an appeal to the director for the revalidation of  his certificate within 30 days from the date of
intimation of such forfeiture by the director.
15. I. Any contributor who is dismissed from service or is deemed as having vacated post, shall
be deemed as having resigned from the scheme and may be entitled to receive only the net
contribution as a lumpsum payments as may be determined by the director with the
concurrence of the advisory committee on a written request made by such contributor.
II. Provided however, that if such contributor has been convicted of causing damage to the
society or to the union at a legal inquiry or such legal inquiry is pending against him, the
aforesaid net contribution shall be paid to him if such damage has been completely reimbursed
or if it is established that no such damage has been caused to the society at the conclusion
of the inquiry.
16. Any contributor who has been reinstated upon been suspended of co-operative service, shall
pay the contribution outstanding in full within a period of time as required by the director.
The date prior to which such payment to be made in full shall be intimidated to the contributor and
if such contributor fails to pay the contribution outstanding before the required date, his policy
shall be deemed to have invalidated.
17. I. In the event of forfeiture of benefits to any contributor under 13.1 of the statute, the director
shall tender a notice to that effect to such contributor.
II. If any contributor who has been forfeited the benefits under 17.1 above, wishes to remain in
the scheme, he may make a request to that effect to the director after settling all the damages
caused to the society by him. The request shall be made to the director within 03 months
from the receipt of notice under 17.1 above.
III. In the e vent of allowing remaining in the scheme on a request made under 17.II above, the
contributor shall pay the contribution outstanding  in full within a period of  time as required
by the director. The date prior to which such payment to be made in full shall intimated to
the contributor and if such contributor fails to pay the contribution outstanding before the
required date, his policy shall be deemed to have invalidated. However the period required
by the director shall not exceed 06 months.
18. I. When any contributor who is above the age of 55 years formally retires from service before
he attains the age of  60 years, such contributor shall be entitled to receive a pension  from
the date on which he attains 60 years of age as given in column IV of the table 01 of the
schedule A of these regulations based on the number of instalments of contribution made
at the time of  his retirement.
In the case of a
contributor who
has been
reinstated
In the case of a
contributor who
has been
convicted at a
legal inquiry
In the case of a
contributor who
has been
dismissed or has
vacated post
Appeal for the
revalidation of
the certificate to
be made within
30 days
Contribution of
deceased
contributor
Death to be
informed within
90 days.
In the case of a
contributor who
retires before he
attains 60 years
of age.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014
II. In lieu thereof such contributor shall be entitled  to receive as a lumpsum payment his net
contribution and interest thereon as determined by the director with the concurrence of the
advisory committee on a written request made to the director to that effect by the contributor.
III. Any such contributor shall be entitled only to receive either of the pension under 18.1 or
the lumpsum payment under 18.II above.
19. When any contributor who is entitled to a pension  under section  7, 9 and 18 of these regulations
dies before he attains the age of  60 years, the death gratuity computed in terms of schedule B
hereof and the lumpsum payment referred to in regulation 13 shall be paid to the party which
becomes entitled to under Section 11 of these regulations.
20. If it is established at a legal inquiry that any contributor who is entitled to receive a lumpsum
payment under these regulations has caused damages to the society or to union, or such inquiry
is pending against him, such lumpsum payment shall be paid to him if such damage has been
completely reimbursed or if it is established that no such damage has been caused by him at the
conclusion of the inquiry.
21.In the event of a death of a pensioner, if the total pension he has received up to his death is less
than the total amount of contribution he made plus the relevant interest thereon, the balance
amount may be paid as a lumpsum payment to the dependants of the deceased pensioner.
22.When contributor who is entitled to receive the accrued sum or the net contribution as a lumpsum
payment under these regulations, owes to his employer society or union any sum of money on an
agreement entered into with such society or union, such accrued sum or the net contribution in
whole or any part thereof may be used with the concurrence of the advisory committee to settle
such agreed sum in whole or any part thereof on consideration of a request to that effect made to
the director by such society or union with the consent of the contributor.
23. In the event of any problem with regard to the payment of pension/allowances/gratuity to any
contributor in any manner other than what is specified in these regulations, action shall be taken
as determined by the director with the concurrence of the advisory board.
24.The director shall in addition to the policy issued to the contributor under Section 14.1 of the
statute, cause to prepare and use following specimen forms to include necessary particulars for
the purpose of regularization of administration and management of affairs of the scheme:-
I. Consent declaration form;
II. Application to join the scheme;
III. Authorization letter to deduct monthly contribution from the salary;
IV . Monthly contribution deduction register;
V. Notice on imposition of fines;
VI. Application for death gratuity;
VII.Application to withdraw the accrued sum or the net contribution;
VIII.Application to amalgamate the membership;
IX. Any other forms as may be necessary to implement the scheme;
25.If any contributor who submitted his application to join the scheme through his employer society
or the union has subsequently joined any other society or union for permanent employment, such
contributors shall intimate thereof to the director within 30 days from such joining and shall make
an application on the specimen from prescribed by the director to amalgamate the membership in
order to continue the policy valid.
Amalgamation
of membership
Specimen forms
To settle agreed
sums from the
accrued sum or
the net
contribution
Lumpsum
payment not to
be paid if has
caused damages
in the society
In the case of a
contributor who
retires before he
attains 60 yrs.
of age and dies
before he
receives the
pension

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014
8A
26.The director shall cause the accounts of the scheme to be kept as per accepted accountancy
principles, policies and standards.
27. I. The director shall prepare an annual estimate in relation to the expenditure involved in the
implementation of functions of this scheme and shall submit it to the advisory committee for
approval.
II. When the annual estimated provisions are not sufficient to meet the expenses, supplementary
estimates shall be prepared and submitted to the advisory committee for approval.
28.Quarterly reports of receipts and expenditure shall be prepared at the end of every quarter and the
report so prepared shall be submitted to the advisory committee within 30 days from elapse of  the
quarter to which such report is relevant.
29.The provincial finance regulations and procurement committee guidelines shall be strictly adhered
to when obtaining facilities and services required for the implementation of the scheme and in the
case of exceeding the limits of the head of the department, the approval of the advisory committee
shall be obtained.
30.The staff required for the operation of the scheme shall be deployed from those who are employed
in the department of co-operative development of  Sabaragamuwa province at the time concerned
and the director shall obtain the consent of the commissioner and registrar of co-operatives and
the recommendation of the advisory committee and there upon the approval of the provincial
public service commission for the required staff so deployed.
31.The director shall assign duties to the staff of the scheme and delegate powers as appropriate.
32.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this regulations,
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Assignment of
duties
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency
The staff
Facilities and
services
Quarterly
reports
Annual
estimates of
expenditure
Accounts to be
kept
SCHEDULE  A
Sabaragamuwa Province Co-operative Employee’s pension scheme.
Table - 01
Instalments to be paid by the employees (between 18-55 years) who enroll to the pension scheme and the pension
they are entitled to receive.
Line I Line II Line III Line IV
Age as at next Percentage of the Minimum number of Pension which is
birthday after joining monthly consolidated instalments to be entitled to be received
the scheme salary to be paid as the paid after completion of 60
monthly instalment years, as a percentage
of the monthly salary at
the time of retirement
19 5 504 80
20 5 492 79
21 5 480 78
22 5 468 77

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014
23 5 456 76
24 5 444 75
25 5 432 74
26 5 420 73
27 5 408 72
28 5 396 71
29 5 384 70
30 5 372 69
31 5 360 68
32 5 348 67
33 5 336 66
34 5 324 65
35 5 312 64
36 5 300 63
37 5 288 62
38 5 276 61
39 5 264 60
40 5 252 59
41 5 240 58
42 5 228 57
43 5 216 56
44 5 204 55
45 5 192 54
46 5 180 53
47 5 168 52
48 5 156 51
49 5 144 50
50 5 132 49
51 5 120 48
52 5 108 47
53 5 96 46
54 5 84 45
55 5 72 44
Line I Line II Line III Line IV
Age as at next Percentage of the Minimum number of Pension which is
birthday after joining monthly consolidated instalments to be entitled to be received
the scheme salary to be paid as the paid after completion of 60
monthly instalment years, as a percentage
of the monthly salary at
the time of retirement

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014
10A
Table - 02
Instalments to be paid by the employees (between 50-60 years) who enroll to the pension scheme and the pension
they are entitled to receive.
Line I Line II Line III Line IV Line V
Age as at next Percentage of the Minimum number of Pension which is The
birthday after joining monthly consolidated instalments to be entitled to be received occasion
the scheme salary to be paid as the paid after completion of 60 entitled to the
monthly instalment years, as a percentage pension
of the monthly salary at
the time of retirement
From the later
date, between the
date of completion
56 to 59 5 60 40 of 60 years or the
date of completion
of paying minimum
60 instalments
From the date of
completion of 01
60 5 60 40 year after paying
60 minimum
instalments.
12 - 463
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.