

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
759
759
wxl 1"654 - 2010 uehs ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'05'14
No. 1,654 – FRIDAY , MAY 14, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 761
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st May, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th May,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,653 of 07.05.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
760
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
761
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT
Calling applications to fill the vacancies in the posts of Research Officer and Livestock Officers in
Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service - 2010
APPLICATIONS are being called from the citizens of Sri Lanka with relevant qualifications to be selected for the posts of Resea rch
Officer and Livestock Officer in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service in which the vacancies  are
available as at 30.06.2010. Applications should be prepared on A4 size paper using both sides of it with cages 1-7 should be appeared on
page 01 and the rest should be appeared on page 02 according to the specimen application attached herewith and forward the same  on or
before 31.05.2010 to reach the Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health, P. O. Box 13, Gatambe, Peradeniya under
registered cover.
Although the application can be typed, it has to be filled by the candidate with his/her own hand writing. The applications
which are not prepared according to the specimen application and the applications which are incompleted will be rejected withou t any
intimation. The name of the examination should be written in English on top of the application prepaid in Sinhala and should be  written
in English on top of the application prepared in Tamil. Further candidate should check whether the application filled by him is conformed
to the specimen application stated in the notification and it is useful to keep a photostat copy of the application with the ca ndidate. The
examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and Enlighs in Colombo. The medium of the examination in which you prefer to sit for the
same shoudl be written in the relevant cage of the application.
Note :
(i) The appointment to the post of Research Officer will be made only from the open competitive examination. 50% of the
vacancies in the post of Livestock officer will be filled by the open competitive examination and the balance 50% will be
filled by the limited competitive examination. If it is unable to fill 50% of the vacancies allocated for the limited
competitive examination at times, the balance vacancies too will be filled by the open competitive examination.
(ii) The complaints with regard to a loss of an application or delayed in the post will not be considered and the candidate
should undertake the risk of delaying the applications until the last date. The words, "Application for the post of
Research Officers/Livestock officer in class II grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service" shuld be
marked on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the applications" (write the name of the post you apply
only).
(iii) The appilcations of the applicants who have not fulfilled the basic qualifications will be rejected.
(iv) The applicants who will be recruited for the posts of Livestock Officer should be served in North and East provinces for
five years from the date of the appointment.
02. Terms and conditions of Service :
1. The post is permanent and pensionable. The selected applicant should contribute for the widows/widowers and orphan's
pension fund.
2. The selected candidate will be appointed to the scheduled post in the Sri Lanka Animal Products and Health Service as
applied by them.
3. The terms and conditions of the service will be applied as per the minute of the Sri Lanka Animal Productions and Health
Service which was published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 31.10.1980 and the
provisions referred to in the Establishment Code of the Sri Lanka and amended provisions issued from time to time ; and
The other terms and conditions of the service are according to the previsions of the Establishments Code of Sri Lanka and
the rules of the Public Service Commission published in the Gazette No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and the terms of the
Public Admiinistration circulars issued from time to time.
03. Salary scale.– According to the Public Administrations Circular 6/2006 the relevant salary scale for the posts in Class II
Grade II of the Animal Productions and Health Service SL–1-2006 entitle from step I to step II (Rs. 22,935-10x 645- 8x790- 17x1 ,050 -
Rs. 53,555). The salaries will be paid as per the circular. The first Efficiency Bar Examinations should be passed before reaching the 4th
step of the salary scale and should be passed the Second Efficiency Bar Examination before reaching the 7th step of the salary scale.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
762
04. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should be not less than 20 years and not more than 35 years of age, at the closing date of the application.
(c) The maximum age limit should be 40 years for the applicants with post graduates qualifications.
(d) Should be physically fit and excellent moral character, the physical fitness should be proved by a medical certificate.
(e) The maximum age limit will not be relevant for the officers who applied for the limited recruitment.
05. Educational Qualifications for Open Competitive examination :
(a) Post of Research Officer. – A four-year degree with a first class or second-class upper in Veterinary Science, Animal
Husbandry Science, Agriculture or a General Degree with post graduate qualifications in the relevant field obtained from
a recognized University or general degree with post graduate qualification.
(b) Post of Livestock Officer. – A four-year degree in Veterinary Science/Livestock Science/Agriculture obtained from a
recognized university.
Note.– The candidates who apply for the open competitive examinations should fulfill the basic qualifications prescribed
regarding the degree on or before the closing date of the applications. The effective date of the degree certificates
should be the closing date of the application or date before that. The applications which are awaiting results will not
be entertained.
06. Method of Recruitment for Open Competitive Examinations :
(a) The candidates who apply for the Posts of Research Officer and Livestock Officer should sit for an examination
according to the syllabus in annexure I conducted by the Commissioner of Examination. If the cnaidate applies for post
of "Research Officer" and "Livestock Officer" a fee of examination is Rupees 350 and if the candidate is applying for one
post a money order to the value of Rupees 300 should be attached to the relevant place of the application and forward
it in favour of the Director General Animal Production and Health.
(b) If a candidate has the relevant qualifications, he can use one application to apply for the posts of Research Officer and
Livestock Officer.
(c) The candidate will be called for the interview based on the order of aggregate of the marks obtained for the General
Question Paper and the subject matter paper and the number of vancancies allocated and the recruitment will be done
accordingly. No marks will be given at the interview.
All the candidates who apply for the above posts should sit for a question paper which includes the following subjects. It is
comprised with two parts.
General Question Paper I is comprised with two parts  :
(a) General Question paper - Part I Subject No. 01 - Intelligence - Time 01 hour - 100 marks
Multiple choice question paper to determine the rational and analytical abilities of the candidates.
(b) General Paper - Part II Subject No. 02 - General Knoweldge (Time 1 1/2 hours) - 100 marks
(a) Question paper in a sturctural pattern to check the knowledge in political science, Social cultural and economic
environment of Sri Lanka as well as local and foreign current affairs and scientific and technical developments.
(b) In addition to the above general question paper the candidates who apply for the above posts should sit for a
subject matter question paper/papers prepared with an idea to check the knowledge and the ability in the respective
field/fields applied by them. The time for this question paper is 1 1/2 hours - 200 marks.
07. Recruitment under limited Competitive Examination :
(a) 50% of the vacancies in the posts of Livestock Officer will be filled by the limited competitive examination.
7.1 Qualifications for the limited recruitments.– Should be a Livestock Development Officer/Research Assistant with a
two-year Diploma in Animal Husbandry or Agriculture serving in the Department of Animal Production and Health
at present or a Livestock Development Instructor in the Provincial Council Service and should have completed 04
year satisfactory service as a Livestock Development Instructor in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officer
Service or Provincial Council Service or Special Class or Class I of the Sri Lanka Technological Service ; or
Should be a Livestock Development Officer/Research Assistant in the Department of Animal Production and Health
Service/Livestock Development Instructor in the Provincial Council with a 04 year degree in Livestock Science or
Agriculture obtained from a recognized university with 05 year service.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
763
Note.– However the officers with the following qualifications too can applied the post of Livestock Officer under the limited
recruitment method.
The Research Assistants with two year Laboratory certificate of this department with four year satisfactory service
in the special class or class I of the Sri Lanka Technological Service and serving in the Department of Animal
Production and Health.
7.2 Method of recruitment under limited competitive examination :
(a) The candidates should sit for a paper which is comprised with general question paper and a subject matter paper as
stated in the above No. 06.
(b) The candidates will be called for the interview based on the order of the marks obtaining for the general question
paper and subject matter paper and the number of vacancies allocated and recruitments will be made accordingly. No
marks will be given at the interview.
Note.– If the candidate with Qualification to apply for the Limited Competitive examination have fulfilled the
qualification to apply for the open competitive examination, they can apply for Open and Limited Examinations
by sending one application in which a note should be made accurately about the posts applied for.
8. Candidates will be required to produce the following orginals at the interview when informed :
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Degree and or highest educational certificates ;
(iii) Two certificates of character obtained recently. One should be from the Director of the Course and the other one from
the Professor or from the Lecturer of the university. (This certificate is not necessary for those who are serving in the
Department at the present) ;
(iv) Certificates of the highest examinations passed in Sinhala, Tamil or English.
09. Other Conditions :
(i) The Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking decisions pertaining to the matters to which the regulations
have not been given in these gazette notifications.
(ii) The Public Service Commission reserves the decision of filling or not filling or filling several posts only.
(iii) If Sinhala/Tamil or English versions of the gazette notification are comparative the Sinhala versions will be accepted.
(iv) If it reveals that a candidate has not fulfilled the required qualification before or at the time of the examination or after
the examination his candidature will be cancelled.
(v) If reveals that a candidate has submitted false information knowingly or concealed an important reasons he/she will be
dismissed from service.
(vi) A notification will be published by the Department of Examinations in the News Papers imediately after admission
cards are issued to the candidates and any candidate who did not receive the admission cards even 2 or 3 days subsequent
to the News Paper advertisement should inform the Department of Examinations as instructed in the notice. It is
advisable to inform the Department of Examinations by having the following items stand by the certified photostat
copy of the receipt of payments. Application forms receipt of registration and if you stay outside Colombo your letter
of request giving fax number enabling to send the admission card. Applicants living close by are instructed to inform the
Organization and Evaluation Branch of the Department of Examinations through a messenger.
(vii) Candidate should prove their identity to the Supervisor and the National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or a valid passport will be accepted for this purpose.
(viii) Issuing in of an admission card to a candidate will not be considered as a fulfillment of qualifications to sit for the
examination.
(ix) The candidates are bound to abide by the rules and regulations enacted by the Commissioner General of examination
pertaining to the holding of the examination. If these rules and regulations are violated he/she will be penalized by the
Commisssioner General of Examinations.
S
UNIMAL SENARA TNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock Development.
Ministry of Livestock Development,
No. 45, St. Michael's Road,
Colombo 3,
07th April, 2010.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
764
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
APPLICATION FOR THE OPEN/LIMITED RECRUITMENT OF OFFICERS IN THE POST OF RESEARCH OFFICER/LIVESTOCK
OFFICER IN CLASS II GRADE II IN THE SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE
For Office use
The medium selected for the examination : Method of apply for the posts :
Sinhala - 2 Research Officer (open) - 1
English - 3 Livestock Officer (open) - 2
Tamil - 4 Livestock Officer (limited) - 3
For the above posts 1 and 2 - 4
For the above posts 2 and 3 - 5
For the above posts 1 and 3 - 6 (Indicate the relevant
For the above posts 1, 2 and 3 - 7  number in the cage)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. (i) Name with initials (in block capitals) :
(ii) Names denoted by initials (in block capitals) :
02. N. I. C. No. :
03. Postal address (Change of the address should be informed immediately) :–––––––––––.
04. District in which the permanent address is belonged :
(i) ....................... Provincial Council
(ii) ....................... District
05. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––––, Month :–––––––––––, Date :–––––––––––.
Age as at the closing date of the application :
Year :–––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––.
06. ( a) Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
(b) Nationality (Sinhala - 1, Sri Lanka Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
07. ( a) Sex : Female  - 1
Male     - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(b) Civil Status :
Single - 1
Married - 2
Widow - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
08. Educational qualifications :
Degree/Post Graduate Qualification Class University Year
1.
2.
3.
09. Only for the officers who have gained qualification under paragraph 7 of this notification, particulars relevant to the Dipl oma in
Agriculture/Animal Husbandry :–––––––––––.
10. Service particulars (If you hold a Permanent Post at present) :
The Post held at Period of service Place of work Department/
Present From                   To Provincial Council

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
765
11. If you apply for more than one post preference should be given for the consideration at the selection :
(i) –––––––––––––––.
(ii) –––––––––––––––.
12. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any  particulars
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to dismissals without compensation if d etected
after appointment. I also certify that I have not being convicted for any criminal offence by any Court of Law. Further I decla re that
I am bound to abide the conditions enacted by the Commissioner General of Examination pertaining to the holding of the examination.
Note :
The money order is affixed to the application (should be able to detach) :
No. of M. O. :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Post office :–––––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
I declare that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ is holding the post of I ............... in this Department/Provi ncial Council and
the particulars stated in the application are accurate when checked with his/her personal file. He/she can be released/cannot b e released
from Provincial/Public Service. If selected for this post. (delete the words not relevant)
––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
(Official Stamp)
Date :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Syllabus for the competitive Examination of the recruitment of officers to fill the vacancies in Class II Grade II in the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health Service
All the candidates who apply for the posts in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service should
sit for a –
1.General Question Paper - Subject No. 01 - Intelligence ;
2.Subject Matter Question Paper/Papers.
General Question Paper I is comprised with two parts : –
(a) General Question Paper -  Part I - Intelligence Time 01 hour - 100 marks.
Multiply choice question paper to determine the rational and analytical abilities of the candidates ;
(b) General Paper Part Two - General Knowledge (Time 1 1/2 hours - 100 marks) Subject No. 02 :–
(i) A question paper in a structural pattern to check the knowledge in Political Science, Social Cultural and Economic
environment of Sri Lanka as well as local and foreign current affairs and scientific and technical developments ;
(ii) In addition to the above general question paper the candidates who apply for the above posts should sit for a
subject matter question paper/papers prepared with an idea to check the knowledge and the ability in the respective
field/fields applied by them. The time for this question paper is 01 1/2 hours - 200 marks.
The Syllabus for the subject matter question paper for the post of Veterinary Research Officer is as follows - Subject No. : 03:–
1.Govt. policies on agriculture and animal husbandry ;
2.The impact on agriculture and animal husbandry through the chaotic gums of Sri Lanka ;
3.The stratum of the Livestock field and the present situation of the livestock industry ;
4.Crops livestock combined plans ;
5.Important research standalones reheat to livestock field ;
6.The communication method pertaining to research starvations ;

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
766
7.Economic profit and losses of the activities associated with animal husbandry ;
8.Agricultural research porches of Sri Lanka.
The Syllabus for the subject matter question paper for the post of livestock officer is as follow Subject No. : 04 :–
Livestock field of Sri Lanka characteristics and special features development needs of that field development feasibility and
challenges :
1. Nature of the organization of Government private and non-Governmental institutional structures involved in the field of
Animal Production procurement and marketing ;
2. The importance and the involvement of the livestock field in the rural and national economic development ;
3. Breeding strategies, which can be used for various species of animals in order to use the resources in the optimum level
available in different areas in Sri Lanka ;
4. Traditional and non-traditional animal feed sources availability and strategies to upgrade them according to the future
needs. Preparations of nutritional requirements for animal husbandry and rations for animal species ;
5. Laws, rules and regulations which are important for animal husbandry, agriculture, aquaculture, wild life environment and
public veterinary services and the objectives and the importance of them ;
6. Various farm produce system and livestock productions planning of farms and preparation of budgets and maintaining of
reports for farms and upgrade the productivity through the mutual relationship between the various agricultural product
system and livestock productions ;
7. Importance of agri/livestock extension services in order to provide a technical knowledge for the rural economic development
of Sri Lanka suitable extension service strategies and a methodology for those tasks ;
8. Globalization, information and communication technology and its impact on the livestock sector in Sri Lanka ;
9. International trade for livestock field, trade transaction and the importance and the impact of them for livestock field ;
10. Animal quarantine strategies, the importance of import and export activities and quarantine methods in connection with
animals and animal productions.
The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner of examination. If the candidate has the qualification he can sit for the
both examinations.
05–196
–––––––––––––––––
AMENDMENT
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND  HOME  AFFAIRS
Registrar General’s Department
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF GRADE III POSTS OF THE REGISTRARS’
SERVICE – 2009
SUBJECT No. 2 which appeared as “Intelligence” under the subjects and syllabus under No. 14 - II of the notice published in the English
Language in the Gazette Notification No. 1,635 dated 01.01.2010 on the above subject should be amended as “Aptitude” and the Subject
No. (I) which appeared as nkhopAk; Mw;wYk; (rpq;fsk;/jkpo;) under the subjects and syllabus under No. 14 - II of the corresponding
notice in the Tamil Language published in the same gazzete notification should be amended as nkhopAk; fl;LiuAk; (rpq;fsk;/jkpo;).
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
05–302

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
767
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION   FOR   PROMOTION  OF  MINOR  EMPLOYEES OF  THE  PUBLIC
SERVICE TO  CLASS  III  OF  THE  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS’  SERVICE – 2009
IT is hereby notified that a limited competitive examination for promotion of minor employees of the Public Service to Class III of the Public
Management Assistants’ Service will be held by the Commissioner-General of Examinations in the month of August, 2010.
2. This examination will be held in the following towns for the minor employees attached to the central government service. The
list of towns and the respective town numbers are furnished below. The Commissioner - General of Examinations may, at his discretion,
cancel any of the examination centers owing to the insufficient number of candidates or another reason and decide an alternative center, taking
the candidates’ second preference into consideration.
Town Town No. Town Town No.
Colombo 01 Trincomalee 14
Gampaha 02 Batticaloa 15
Kalutara 03 Ampara 16
Matale 04 Puttalam 17
Kandy 05 Kurunegala 18
Nuwara Eliya 06 Anuradhapura 19
Galle 07 Pol onnaruwa 20
Matara 08 Badulla 21
Hambanthota 09 Monaragala 22
Jaffna 10 Kegalle 23
Mannar 11 Ratnapura 24
Mulativu 12 Kilinochchi 25
V avuniya 13
3. (i) This examination will be held by the Commissiner - General of Examinations and the candidates shall be bound by the rules
and regulations prescribed by him for the conduct of the examination.
(ii) Rules and regulations for candidates are provided separately in the Gazette Notification. Candidates are liable to any
punishment imposed by him for breech of these rules.
4. Medium in which candidates should sit the examination.– This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.
Candidates may sit this examination in only one language medium of their preference. Candidates will not be allowed to change the language
medium once it is selected.
5. Salary.– As per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv) dated 24.08.2007, the monthly salary scale applicable to
classes III, II and I of the Public Management Assistants’ Service is Rs. 13,990 -10x145- 11x170- 6x240 - 14x320 - Rs. 23,230. To obtain
above Rs. 15,440, promoting to class II is required and promotion to class I is necessary to obtain above Rs. 17,310.
Note.– They will be granted incremental credit subject to the incremental credit rules prevailing at the time of receiving appointment.
6. Conditions of Service :
(i) Candidates who are successful in this examination will be appointed on an acting basis for one year from the date of the
appointment. Their posts will be permanent and pensionable. Confirmation in the service will be done after the requirements
prescribed in the service minute of the Public Management Assistants’ Service are fulfilled.
(ii) Candidates who receive appointments on the results of the examination will be liable to transfer and may be posted to any
station in Sri Lanka.
(iii) Proficiency of the second official language should be achieved within 05 years from the date of appointment in terms of the
provisions of Public Administration Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
7. Selections for appointments.– Only the minor employees in Central Government Service will be admitted for the competitive
examination to compete for vacancies in the Central Government. After selecting candidates who secure 40% or more marks for each paper
of the examination, final selections will be made on merit basis depending on the aggregate of their marks.
8. Eligibility.– To be eligible to compete in this examination, every applicant should :
(i) Be a minor employee in the Central Government Service holding a permanent post with a salary scale that comes under
salary codes PL-1-2006A, PL-2-2006A and PL-3-2006A in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
768
dated 24.08.2007 and should have been confirmed in the appointments (should be a public servant falling under a
definition in Chapter 1 of the Establishment Code).
(ii) Have completed a continuous, active and a satisfactory service period of 05 years immediately prior to 31.12.2009 and
the Head of Department should have certified that.
(iii) Candidates who have being confirmed in the service after 26.11.2001 should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects (06) including Language/Literature and Arithmetic/Pure
Mathematics/Elementary Mathematics/Commercial Arithmetic.
Note :
1. Period of service served prior to receiving a permanent appointment or any period of service or training that are prescribed
as a condition to be fulfilled prior to granting permanency in the post, will not be taken into account when calculating the
qualifying 05 years period mentioned in (ii) above. Periods of temporary/casual service prior to receiving permanency,
too, will not be taken into account when calculating the qualifying 05 year period mentioned in (ii) above.
2. All drivers of motor vehicles in Public Service will be allowed to sit for this examination notwithstanding their salary scale
provided that they possess other prescribed qualifications.
3. The five-year satisfactory service period referred to in Section (ii) above will be determined on the following basis.
Candidates who have fulfilled the following requirements will be considered as having a satisfactory service for the
purpose of this examination.
(a) He/she should have earned all the increments during the five years immediately prior to 31.12.2009.
(b) He/she should not have suffered any disciplinary punishment during the five year period prior to 31.12.2009.
4. The Head of Department should be prepared to release the officer if he/she is selected for an appointment.
5. Employees who are engaged in semi-technical work, who have been trained on a certain task or who have been given
special training by the government will not be eligible to sit this examination. For example, employees in engineering and
industrial grades and Public Health Officers in the Department of Health will not be eligible to sit for this examination. In
case there are any doubts as to whether a particular employee is eligible or not, the applicant should consult his
department, which in turn, will consult the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
When consulting the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs regarding the eligibility of any employee to sit
this examination. The Department concerned should submit a comprehensive description of the job held by the employee
with the salary scale and state whether the applicant had been given any training to equip himself to hold the job and the
nature and duration of such training, if any,
6. Temporary and casual employees in public service, employees of Boards, Corporations and similar boides are not eligible
to compete in this examination.
7. Any other employee in Postal Department, except the minor employees in the Combined Services are not eligible to
appear for this examination.
8. The candidates, before forwarding their applications, should satisfy themselves that they have fulfilled all the requirements
prescribed herein. Candidates who present themselves for the examination without fulfilling the prescribed requirements
will be disqualified, even if they attain a required standard of marks in the examination.
9. Applications :–
(i) A specimen form of application for admission to this examination is appended to this notification. Application forms
should be prepared by the candidates using both sides of papers in such a manner that Nos. 1.0 to 4.0 appear on the first
page and remaining numbers on 2nd page. The applications should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's own
handwriting. Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected
without any notice. Applications of those who haven't paid examination fee on or before due date will also be rejected. It
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form. It is the responsibiilty of the candidate to
make sure that the application form perfected by him/serself complies with the  specimen given in the examination notice
as otherwise the application may be rejected.
(ii) Examination Fees.– The fee for this examination is Rs. 250. This is payable at any District Secretariat or Divisional
Secretariat under revenue head 2003-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained thus
should be affixed firmly in the relevant cage on the application form (a photo copy of the receipt should be kept with the
applicant for future use). The fee will not be refunded under any circumstance while money orders and stamps will not be
accepted in respect of the fee.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
769
(iii) The application form must be completed correctly and legibly in the candidates own handwriting and sent by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations Organization and Foreign Examination Branch. Pelawatte,
Battaramulla on or before 14.06.2010 through the Heads of Departments in which the candidates are serving.
(iv) The application should be prepared only as per the specimen appended to this and a candidate should not send more than
one application form. It is further informed that photocopies or advanced copies should not be sent. The title of the
examination should be indicated in the specimen in English Language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
10. Heads of Departments are required to furnish a certificate as indicated at the end of the application form. Any application
received after the due date will be rejected. The name of the examination should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the form. If any candidate fails to comply with this procedure, his/her application is liable to be rejected. Candidates are requested
to forward their applications to the Heads of their Departments well in advance enabling them to forward the applications to th e
Commissioner General of Examinations on or before 14.06.2010.
11. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue a copy of the examination time table along with the admission card to
all candidates whose applications have been received. Concurrent to this, an advertisement will be published in 'Dinamina', 'Thinakaran' and
'Daily News' papers notifying the issuance of admission cards. Candidates appearing for the examination should get the admissio n card
attested in advance and produce it to the supervisor of the examination hall. Without such admission card, no candidate will be allowed to
sit for the examination. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time
of calling the Department of Examinations :  i. e . certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at your possession,
receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should
be sent.
12. Admission to the examination does not constitute acceptance of eligibility. Such admission will be subjected to scrutinization
at a later stage. The candidature of any applicant, who is subsequently found to have been ineligible to compete at the examination, is liable
to cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the examination.
13. The results will be released to the Director General of Combined Services by the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
14. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(b) a valid passport.
15. Heads of Departments should approve duty leave to officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations enabling them to appear for the exam. Travelling expenses are not payable.
16. Penalty for Furnishing False Information .– Candidates should take care to furnish correct information when filling the
application form. As per the rules and regulations of the examination, the candidature of any applicant may be cancelled prior to, during or
after the examination, if his/her ineligibility to sit for the examination is disclosed. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found
to be false at any stage he/she will be liable to dismissal from the public service.
17. Scheme of Examination.– The subjects of the examination and the marks assigned to each subject are given below :–
Subject Marks Duration
(1) General Knowledge 100 2 hours
(2) Aptitude Test
100 1 hour
Total 200
General Knowledge (duration 2 hours)
(i) Knowledge of the candidate on social, cultural, political and scientific matters ;
(ii) Knowledge on current local and foreign events ;
(iii) General knowledge and understanding of the candidates on simple office systems applied in a public office, call up diary,
subject file, vouchers, moving sheets, attendance register, date stamp, stamp, frank and mail bag and their usage ;
(iv) Understanding and attitudes of candidates on the matters such as sound communication systems maintained in public
institutions, proper maintenance of the environment in and out of the office, maintenance of sound public relations.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
770
This question paper consists of two parts :–
Part I -  40  questions which require short answers (40 minutes - 40 marks)
Part II - 10  questions which require short answers based on a case, statement or paragraph and three out of four semi-
structured questions. (80 minutes - 60 marks).
Aptitude Test (Duration 1 hour)
(i) Solving simple numerical and mathematical questions and drawing graphs/based on the data provided ;
(ii) Questions to test the knowledge on general intelligence and critical reasoning ;
(iii) Ability of candidates to express ideas and understanding, ability to summarize few sentences into one. Spelling and
Grammar and knowledge on words ;
(iv) Knowledge on drafting a simple letter based on information provided, writing a minute or short report, preparing an
invitation and an agenda.
This question paper consists of two parts :–
Part I – 20 questions of multiple choice type (20 marks - 15 minutes)
Part II – Essay type questions (80 marks - 45 minutes)
Note :
(i) These question papers are designed to test the candidate's aptitude and ability to undertake duties of the service ;
(ii) In all written answer papers, marks will be deducted for spelling mistakes and illegible handwriting.
18. The decision of the Director General of Combined Service will be final regarding any matter not provided for in this notice of
examination.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNE,
Director General fo Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Indpendence Square, Colombo 07,
27th April, 2010.
Specimen Application Form
(For office use only)
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR PROMOTION OF MINOR EMPLOYEES OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE TO
CLASS III OF THE PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE – 2009
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Town in which you intend to sit the examination as per the Gazette
notification. It will nto be allowed to change this subsequently)
Language medium of Examination :–
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage) (It will not be allowed to change this subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials ( in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
Eg.– SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
771
2.0 Place of work and adderss :
2.1 Name and address of office/Department/Institution (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
2.2 Name and address of office/Department/Institution (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1, Male - 0
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3National Identity Card No. :
4.0 Service particulars :
4.1 Name of the Department in which you are serving at present :––––––––––.
4.2 Designation of present post :––––––––––.
4.3 Date of appointment to the present post :––––––––––.
4.4 Whether the present post is permanent or temporary :––––––––––.
4.5 Whether confirmed in the present post :––––––––––.
4.6 If confirmed, the date on which you qualified for confirmation :––––––––––.
4.7 Reference No. and date of letter isued confirming you in the present post :––––––––––.
4.8 Present annual salary (consolidated) :––––––––––.
4.9 Whether the present appointment is pensionable :––––––––––.
5.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the fee was paid :––––––––––.
(ii) The date and number of the receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :––––––––––.
Affix the relevant receipt firmly here
I hereby certify that the information furnished hereby me are correct. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false or incorrect before appointment, I am liable to be disqualified and if found after appointment, I am liable to be dismissed.
Further, I state that I am bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the condu ct of
examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of candidte.
(in the presence of the Head of Department)
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– The applicant should place his/her signature in the presence of his/her Head of Department or an officer autorized to sign
on behalf of him.
A
TTESTA TION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................................ employed at my place of work and who is personally known to me, placed his/
her signature in my presence on ......................
––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the person attesting.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
772
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
I hereby certify,
01. That this candidate (Mr./Mrs./Miss.) ..................................... is an employee in this Department.
02. That he/she is holding a permanent post.
03. That he/she has been confirmed in a permanent post as at 31.12.2009.
04. That he/she has been issued a letter confirming him/her in a permanent post.
05. That he/she has completed at least 5 years of continuous service on or before 31.12.2009.
06. That he/she is drawing a salary/or is on a scale of salary which is within the limits prescribed in para 8.0 of the gazette
notification.
07. That his/her work and conduct during the 5 years immediately prior to 31.12.2009 have been satisfactory.
08. Tht he/she could be released from his/her present post, if selected for an appointment on the results of this examination.
09. That the application bears a receipt to the value of Rs. 250.
10. That the particulars given in his/her application have been checked with records available in this departments and that he/
she is eligible to sit this examination according to the regulations prescribed in the gazette notification relating to this
examination.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of Head of Department.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Note :
1. This certificate should be signed only by the Head of Department or by a Staff Officer duly authorized to sign on his behalf.
The officer issuing the certificate should satisfy himself that the contents of the certificate are correct in all aspects.
2. The application of any candidate who does not satisfy all the requirements of eligibility should not be forwarded to the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
05–316
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.