

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'21
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2017
45
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
PAGE 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 46
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2016- 2017 wfma%,a ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'04'21                                                                                                             
No. 2,016- FRIDAY , APRIL 21,  2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  12th May  2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  28th April, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satis ﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
45 - B 81162-353 
Note.–   (i) Prevention of Crimes (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 07,2017.
 (ii) Registration of Electors (Special Provisions) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 07,2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'21
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2017
46
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
 
Land Commissioner General's No :- 4/10/50876.
Provincial Land Secretariats's No. :- cpc/lc/ld/4/1/27/289.
NOTIFICATION MADE UNDER STATE LAND 
REGULATION NO. 21 (2)
It is hereby noti ﬁ ed that for the Commercial, Agricultural 
purpose, Sun Waves Lanka (Privet) Limited  has requested 
on lease a state land containing in extent about 03 Acre, 
01 Root, 30 Perches out of  extent  maked of lot  No. 78, 
80, 83, 84   as depicted in the Tracing No. C. M. 310054   
situated in the village of Audangawa which belongs to the 
Grama Niladhari Division of Audangawa coming within 
the area of  authority of Dambulla  Divisional Secretariat in 
the District of Matale in the  Central Province. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.
On the North by : Audangawa Kuda wewa;
On the East by : Lot No. 75, 82;
On the South by : Audangawa Gal Kanda ;
On the west by : Lot No. 86 and wewa.
 
The land requsted can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions.
(a)  Terms of the Lease. -  Thirty Years (30) (28.03.2017  
onwards)
 The annual rent of the lease. - 4% of the Market value of 
the land as per valuation of the chief valuer for the year 
2017.   This amount of the lease must be quinquennially 
revised in   such a manner that the amount as a result of 
the revision will be not less than 50% of the amount that 
just proceeded.
 Premium.- Treble of the annual amount of the lease.
 (b) The lessees must, within one year of the 
commencement of the lease, develop the said 
land, in such a manner as to captivate the mind of 
the divisional Secretary.
 (c)  The lessees must not use this land for any purposes 
other than for the  commercial Agricultural 
purpose.
 (d)  This lease must also be subject to the other, 
special conditions stipulated and imposed by the 
Divisional Secretary and by other institutions.
 (e)  The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (f)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event 
of failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate 
within the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for 
which the land was obtained, action will be taken 
to terminate the lease.
 (g) Permission will not  be given for nay other sub           
- leasing transferring to  accomplish the  purpose 
of this  lease Bond  until the  expiry  of 05 years 
from 28.03.2017;.
 (h)  Payment of the lease must be regularly made and 
if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date herein below to the 
effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land 
will be leased out as requested.
  N
UWANI SUDUSINGHA,
  Assistant Land Commissioner,
  For Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General's Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura", Rajamalwatta Rd,
Battaramulla,
21st April 2017.
04-665
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.