

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
951
951
wxl 1"609 - 2009 cQ,s 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'07'03
No. 1,609 – FRIDAY , JULY 03, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 954
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 956
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th July, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th June,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III and IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 1,608 of 26.06.2009 were not published.
Note.- (i) Tamed Elephants Owners'  Organization (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part  II of the  Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka   of  April 30th , 2009.
(ii) Employee's Provident Fund  (Special Provisions) (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka   of  April 30th , 2009.
(iii) Alhason Foundation (Incorporation)  Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka   of  May 07th , 2009.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
952
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
953
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
954
Posts – Vacant
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
APPLICATIONS are called for in terms of Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) the Recruitment for the Post of Quazis.
01. Badulla : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Judicial Zone of the Judicial Zone of Badulla.
02. Balapitiya and Elpitiya : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of the
Judicial Zone of the Judicial Zone of Balapitiya and Elpitiya.
03. Beruwala : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the D. S's Division of Beruwala in Kalutara District.
04. Colombo (East) : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Judicial Zone of Colombo for Hulfsdorp, Grandpass,
Maligawatta, St. Sebastian Road, New Bazzar, Thotalaga, Kochchikade,
Kotahena, Padukka, Hokandara, Meegoda, Godagama, Panagoda,
Malabe, Thalangama North, Kotikawatta and Buthgamuwa areas.
05. Colombo (North) : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Judicial Zone of Colombo for Fort, Pettah, Maradana,
Suduwella, Borella, Kupiyawatta, Dematagoda, Maligakanda,
Madampitiya, Modara, Mattakkuliya, Cota Road, Kolonnawa, Angoda
and Wellampitiya areas.
06. Harispattuwa and Pujapitiya : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the D. S.'s Division of Harispattuwa and Pojapitiya in Kandy
District.
07. Horana : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of the
Judicial Zone of the Judicial Zone of Horana.
08. Karawahupattu (South) (Sainthamaruthu) : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the D. S.'s Division of Sainthamaruthu in Ampara District.
09. Koralaipttu (Valachchenai) : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Revenue Division of Koralaipattu East (except the
Oddamawadi) in Batticaloa District.
10. Mannar : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Revenue Division of Mannar and Manthi in Mannar
District.
11. Matara : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Judicial Division of Matara.
12. Mawanella : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Judicial Division of Mawanella.
13. Nuwara-Eliya : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Judicial Division of Nuwara-Eliya.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
955
14. Sammanthurai : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Sammanthurai Pradeshiasaba No. 01 and 02. Malkampiti,
Nainakadu, Malwatta, Navinthanveli and Annavilai area in Ampara
District.
15. Thambalagamuwa and Kanthale : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the D. S.'s Division of Thambalagamuwa and Kanthale in
Trincomalee District.
16. Trincomalee : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the D. S.'s Division of Trincomalee Town, Gravets and
Morawewa in Trincomalee District.
17. Udu, Meda and Pahatha Dumbara (Udathalawinna) : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Revenue Division of Udu Dumbara, Meda Dumbara and
Pahatha Dumbara (Udathalawinna) in Kandy District.
18. Udunuwara : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of
Quazi in the Revenue Division of Udunuwara in Kandy District.
19. Vavuniya : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the
Muslim marriages and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the post of the
Judicial Zone of the Judicial Zone of Vavuniya.
Persons with following qualifications may apply :
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized University or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized
by the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or a holder of the Al-Alim Certificate issued by the Departm ent of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of the other similar professional qualifications or a retired public servant who has held office
in staff grade.
Persons currently holding a permanent post in the public service shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicant should be persons of over 40 years of age and of good character and standing in the community and possessing a
sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which will be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for which he is appointed. A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance
of Rs. 6,000 and an all inclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of support service (clerical, assessors, typing , postal).
Applications on forms obtainable from the office, should be sent to reach me on or before 03rd August, 2009.
P. W. D. C. J
AY ATHILAKE,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Office of the Judicial Service Commission,
P. O. Box 573,
Hultsdorp, Colombo 12,
16th June, 2009.
07–111

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
956
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HIGHER  EDUCATION
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE)
ADV ANCED TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTE – COLOMBO 15
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO THE HIGHER NATIONAL DIPLOMA IN ENGINEERING (HNDE) COURSE ACADEMIC YEAR – 2009/2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified persons for admission to the above course.
Higher National Diploma in Engineering is a full-time English medium course of three-year duration of theory and six months
in-plant training and is offered in three areas of specialization, namely Civil Electrical and Mechanical Engineering. HNDE is accredited
by the council of Engineering Institute (UK) to grant exemption for the part one examination of the CEI (London) and it will le ad to get
the exemption of the part one examination of the Institute of Engineers, Sri Lanka. Beside that University of South Australia g rant the
exemption for the HNDE for their 4 year course leading to the B. Sc. (Eng.) as follows :
1. Mechanical Engineering Stream – Exemption of 2 years
2. Civil Engineering Stream – Exemption of 2 years
3. Electrical Engineering Stream – Exemption of 1 1/2 years
Some leading universities in United Kingdom has offered the opportunity for Higher National Diploma in Engineering holders
to follow their Bachelor's Degree within one year while exempting the IELTS examination with offering the benefit of granting t he two
years work permit in UK after the graduation.
The syllabus physical resources of this accademic program are being upgraded with the assistance of the Austria and the
Netherlands governments.
The candidates for admission should fulfill the following eligibility requirements if he/she is be considered for enrolment.
1. That he/she is a citizen of Sri Lanka.
2. Those who followed the G. C. E. (A/L) [New Syllabus] conducted by the Commissioner of Examinations, Sri Lanka in or
before 2008 must possess at least three passes in Combined Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics in one sitting.
3. A pass in English Language at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
Preference will be given to applicants below 23 years of age as at the closing date of applications. The selection criteria is based
on the average marks or Z- score at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
The selected candidates should attend classes during weekdays as well as on certain days during weekends, if the necessity
arises.
Prospective candidates are required to prepare their own applications in accordance with the specimen application form given
below.
Please credit the application fee is Rs. 250 to Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) to the Current
Account No. 025100133397613 at People's Bank, Hyde Park Corner Branch, or any other branch of the People's Bank in Sri Lanka an d
send the receipt along with the application.
Duly perfected applications should be sent under Registered cover to reach the Director, Advanced Technological Institute,
No. 42, Rodrigo Place, Mattakkuliya, Colombo 15 on or before 24th July, 2009. Candidates are required to write "Application for
Admission to HNDE Course 2009/2010" in block capital letters on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. Applications which do n't
meet the above requirement will be rejected.
Persons who are following course of study as an internal student at any University in Sri Lanka/Affiliated University College/
Technical College of Education/Teacher Training College or any other Advanced Technological Institute will not be eligible to register as
a full time student in the Sri Lankan Institute of Advanced Technological Education. Please note that if any student is found to be following
a full time course at any other state institutes concurrently, his/her registration will be cancelled by the Sri Lanka Institut e of Advanced

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
957
Technological Education with immediate effect. It should be noted that the registered as a student in SLIATE will loose the opportunities
of registration in Sri Lanka University in Sri Lanka functioning under the University Grant Commission.
Please note that the decision of the Director General, SLIATE will be the final decision on the admission of students to ATI,
Mattakkuliya for the Academic Year 2009/2010.
H. T. KAMAL PA THMASIRI,
Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education.
No. 18/2, Ward Place,
Colombo 07.
SPECIMEN  APPLICA TION  FORM
SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF ADVANCED TECHNOLOGICAL EDUCATION (SLIATE)
Advanced Technological Institute – Colombo 15
Admission of Students to the Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE) Course Academic Year – 2009/2010
01. Name with initials :
02. Names denoted by initials :
03. National Identity Card No. :
04. Date of birth : 05. Sex : Male Female
06. Permanent Address (Within the box below) : 07. Administrative District :
08. Field of Engineering in order of perference :
1st Preference
2nd Preference
3rd Preference
09. Result for English Language at the G. C. E. (O/L) :
Y ear Index No. Grade
10. Result of the best attempt at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (on or before 2008) :
Subject Grade
1. Combined Mathematics
2. Physics
3. Chemistry
4. Common General Test
Z-score

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
958
Y ear Index No. Medium
Attempt 1st 2nd 3rd
I hereby declare that I am not following any other full time course of study in any other state institution. I am aware that my
registration will be cancelled at any time during the period of study if it is found that I concurrently follow a full-time course at any other
state institution. I certify that the information furnished herein is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
–––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
(The bank receipt for Rs. 250 should be annexed)
07–160
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Finance and Planning
DEPARTMENT OF VALUATION
POST OF ASSISTANT DISTRICT VALUER CLASS III GRADE II IN SRI LANKA VALUA TION SERVICE
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Post of Assistant District Valuer Class III Grade II in Sri Lanka Valuation Service in the Department
of Valuation. Applications prepared as per specimen form published below should be sent to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Planning, The Secretariat, Colombo 01, on or before 17.07.2009. Left-hand top of the envelope should be marked as "Application for Post
of Assistant District Valuer Class III Grade II".
Only the applicants who have completed basic qualifications according to this notice will be called for the written examination.
Note:-
(i) Applications which are not in the form appended below will be rejected.
(ii) No allegation that an application form has been lost or delayed in the post can be considered. Candidates who delay
their applications until the last few days will do so at their own risk.
02. Terms of Engagement and Conditions of Service :
(i) The posts are permanent and pensionable. Contributions should be made to the "Widows’/Widowers’ and Orphans’
Pension Scheme". The appointments will be on probation for a period of three years.
(ii) Attention is invited to general conditions applicable to appointment in the Public Service laid down at the beginning
of Part I Section (IIA) of this Gazette.
(iii) In addition to the language on which officers entered to the Grade III/II of Sri Lanka Valuation Service, proficiency in
other official language should be obtained within a period of 5 years, according to the provisions of the Public
Administration Circular No. 7/2007. If such proficiency in the other official language is not obtained within a period
of 5 years, the increments of such officers will be differed until such qualifications are obtained.
03. Salary and Allowances. – According to the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 (iv) dated 24.08.2007 this post
carries a salary as per salary code MN-5-2006 A (monthly) (Rs. 16,720-10x320-11x365-15x450-Rs. 30,685). Salary will be paid in
accordance with Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 (iv). Efficiency bar examination as stipulated in Public Administrat ion
Circular No. 06/2006 should be passed. Payment of salary increments is subject to the passing of efficiency bar examinations.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
959
04. Qualifications: Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof that he/she-
(i) is a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(ii) is of excellent moral character with good eyesight and sound constitution;
(iii) is not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age on 17.07.2009 (as per the relevant provisions of the
Establishment Code, the upper age limit will not apply to persons already in Government Service/Provincial Government
Service)
(iv) has obtained a B. Sc. Degree in Estate Management and Valuation of a recognized University.
05. Method of Recruitment: Applicants who qualify in terms of the notice of calling for application will be required to sit for an
open competitive examination conducted by University of Sri Jayawardenepura. Selection will be done on the merits achieved at t he
examination. Candidates successful at the examination will be interviewed by a board of interview appointed by the Public Servi ce
Commission in order to check their basic qualifications.
(i) Competitive examination for selection will be held within the premises of University of Sri Jayawardenapura. The
power of postponement or cancellation of the examination vests with the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning on the instructions given by the Public Service Commission.
(ii) Vacancies will be filled according to the merit order of marks obtained at the examination.
(iii) The Public Service Commission has the power to fill part of the vacancies or not to fill any of the vacancies.
(iv) If it is proved that the applicant has no qualifications for the post the candidature of an applicant could be cancelled
at any time before conducting the examination, while it is going on or after the examination.
Further, even after an appoinment is given, if it is proved that anyone has given false information knowingly, he/she
would be dismissed from the service.
Syllabus for the Open Competitive Examination:
This will consists of two question papers.
1st Question Paper:
This paper will consist of not more than 25 multiple choice questions. Generally, the questions will be based on
the subject areas expected to be covered in a degree programme leading to B. Sc. Estate Managment and Valuation.
Time: 30 minutes.
Minimum marks required to pass : 50%.
2nd Question Paper:
Generally this paper will be based on the subject areas expected to be covered in a degree programme leading to B.
Sc Estate Management and Valuation.
Time: 45 minutes to one hour.
Minimum marks required to pass : 50%.
06. Candidates will be required to produce the following documents when called upon to do so:
(i) Certificate of Registration of Birth. ( N. B. - Baptismal Certificate of Birth issued for the purpose of the Code of
Regulations for assisted schools will not be accepted).
(ii) Certificates of Educational/Professinal qualifications.
(iii) Two certificate of character, one of which should be from the Director, College Tutor or Professor.
(iv) Certificates of highest examination passed in Sinhala, Tamil and English.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
960
Note: (i) No documents or copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
(ii) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when required to do so will not be considered.
07. Applications of officers in the State Service/Provincial Government Service and State Corporations must be forwarded
through the respective Heads of Institutions.
08. Applications and any other communications relating thereto must be addressed to the Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Planning, The Secretariat, Colombo-01 and not personally to any other Officer.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
The Secretariat,
Colombo 01.
17th June, 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION- 2009 FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF ASSISTANT
DISTRICT VALUER CLASS III GRADE II IN SRI LANKA VALUATION SERVICE
N. B.- The top left-hand corner of the envelope containing the application should be marked "Application for the Post of
Assistant District Valuer Class III Grade II in the Valuation Department" and send under registered cover to the Secretary, Min istry of
Finance and Planning, The Secretariat, Colombo 01.
(For office use only)
Medium for Examination :
Sinhala-2,   Tamil-3,   English-4
(Insert the Number within the cage)
01. Name of the Applicant :
1.1 Name with initials to the end :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capital) (eg. SILV A, A. B.)
1.2 Name in Full :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capital)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Private Address :––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
(Change of Address should be informed immediately)
Address for sending Admission :––––––––––.
03. Sex: (Male-0, Female-1)
(Insert the Number within the cage)
04. Civil Status: (Single-1, Married-2)
(Insert the Number within the cage)
05. Nationality: (Sinhala-1, Tamil-2, Indian Tamil-3, Muslim-4, Other-5)
(Insert the Number within the cage)
06. National Identity Card No. :

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
961
07. Date of Birth: Y ear Month Date
Age  to the closing date:
Years Months Days
08. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka by decent or by registration :–––––––––.
(give details if by registration)
09. Highest Examination passed in following subjects:
1. Sinhala
2. Tamil
3. English
10. Educational/Professinal Qualifications:
Examination/Degree Effective Date University/Institute Subjects
11. Details of Present Employment and any previous appointment held:
Designation From To Annual Salary
12. Have you been dismissed from any post in the State Service ? (If so, give particulars) :––––––––––.
13. Are there any Departmental Disciplinary inquiries pending against you? (If you are already in Public Service) :––––––––––.
14. Have you been convicted of any offence by a Court of Law? :––––––––––.
15. Certification by the Applicant :
I hereby certify that the particulars funished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection and be dismiss ed
without any compensation if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
16. Certification from the Head of the Institution, if the applicant is in Public/Provincial Public/State Corporation or Board S ervice:
I certify that Mr./Miss/Mrs. ………………………, who forwards this application, is personally known to me, employed
in ………………………(Ministry/Department/State Corporation/Board), no pending diciplinary inquiries against him/her and
placed his/her signature in my presence on this ………………day of ……………2009.
He/She can be released from the present employment if selected to be appointed as an Assistant District Valuer II, in Class
III Grade II of Sri Lanka Valuation Service.
––––––––––,
Signature of Attester.
Full Name of Attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Official Address :––––––––––.
(Affix Official Stamp)
Date :––––––––––.
07-82

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
962
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I ... ... ... ... ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I ... ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II ... ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III ... ... ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II ... ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III ... ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V
... ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI ... ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2009
963
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2009
JULY 03.07.2009 Friday — 19.06.2009 Friday 12 noon
10.07.2009 Friday –– 26.06.2009 Friday 12 noon
17.07.2009 Friday –– 03.07.2009 Friday 12 noon
24.07.2009 Friday –– 10.07.2009 Friday 12 noon
31.07.2009 Friday –– 17.07.2009 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 07.08.2009 Friday — 24.07.2009 Friday 12 noon
14.08.2009 Friday –– 31.07.2009 Friday 12 noon
21.08.2009 Friday –– 07.08.2009 Friday 12 noon
28.08.2009 Friday –– 14.08.2009 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 03.09.2009 Thursday — 21.08.2009 Friday 12 noon
11.09.2009 Friday –– 28.08.2009 Friday 12 noon
18.09.2009 Friday –– 03.09.2009 Thursday 12 noon
25.09.2009 Friday –– 11.09.2009 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.