

<!-- page 1 -->

407I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2011'06'10
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
407
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"710 – 2011 cqks 10 jeks isl=rdod – 2011'06'10
No. 1,710 – FRIDAY , MAY 10, 2011
PAGE
Government Notifications … … 408
Price Control Orders … … —
Central Bank of Sri Lanka Notices… … —
Accounts of the Government of Sri Lanka … —
Revenue and Expenditure Returns… … —
Miscellaneous Departmental Notices … 413
Notice to Mariners … … —
“Excise Ordinance” Notices … … —
PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the President … —
Appointments, &c., by the President … —
Appointments, &c., by the Cabinet of Ministers … —
Appointments, &c., by the Public Service Commission —
Appointments, &c., by the Judicial Service Commission ––
Other Appointments, &c.          … … —
Appointments, &c., of Registrars … —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th June, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd June,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
AA
N. B.  :– Part  I - II (A) and IV (A) of the Gazette No. 1709 of 03.06.2011 were not Published.

<!-- page 2 -->

408 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2011'06'10
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
Government Notifications
NOTICE  UNDER  SECTION  25  AND  26  OF  THE  DEBT  CONCILIATION  ORDINANCE  NO.  39  OF  1941
THE Debt Conciliation Board wishes to make an attempt to bring about a Settlement between the Creditor and the Debtor indicated against
the application number in the Schedule hereto under the Debt Conciliation Ordinance No. 39 of 1941, Act, No. 5 of 1959, Act, No. 24 of
1964, Act, No. 41 of 1973 and Act, No. 19 of 1978.
Therefore in terms of Section 25(1) and 26(1) of the Ordinance the relevant Creditors are hereby required to furnish to the Board
before the date they are required to appear before it the particulars of debt due to them from the under mentioned debtors.
N. W. GUNADASA,
Secretary,
Debt Conciliation Board Department.
Debt Conciliation Board Department,
No. 80, Judicial Mawatha,
Sanchiarachchige Watta,
Colombo 12.
11th May, 2011.
Case No. Name and Address of Debtor Name and Address of Creditor
(01) Mr. Kammanthi Upul Mr. Weerawardene Indika Chandrajith Silva,
39894 Chanaka De Silva, “Vijitha”, Kaluwamodara,
“Somasiri”,  Galhena, Aluthgama.
Beruwala.
(02) Mrs. Wijesooriya Appuhamilage 01. Mr. Yodha Pedige Nimal
39971 Wimalawathie, Samarasinghe,
No. 301, Near the Bridge, Mainnoluwa,
Andaragaha Road, Dorawaka,
Kaludawala, Panadura
02. Mr. Jayalath Mudiyanselage Nishantha,
Varuna Kumara,
47/1, Govipala Road,
Ambepussa.
(03) Mrs. Ratnayaka Mudiyanselage Anulawathie Mr. Meegolla Lekamlage Chaminda
41386 Kumarihamy Pradeep Kumara,
Kolambalamulla, Hodalla, Matikumbura,
Thalawattegedara, Polgahawela.
Polgahawela.
(04) Mrs. Ranawaka Arachchige Ivi Morine Mr. Hewadewage Daton Chitrananda,
41887  Kalista De Alwis, No. 9/20, Wasana Property Trade Company,
No. 44/5, Pokuna Road, Super Market,
Kerawalapitiya, Kandana,
Handala.

<!-- page 3 -->

409I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2011'06'10
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
(05) Mrs. Srimathie Pradeepa Mr. Bentota Nanda Mallawaarachchi,
41896 Gunaw ardene Mudalige, “Saman”,
Godagamage Watta, Maliduwa,
Horagampita Madyama, Bussa.
Thelikada, Ginimallagaha.
(06) Mr. Withanage Jayantha Mrs. Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
41898 Chandrasiri Perera, Priyangani Menike Dissanayake,
No. 187, Delgahawatta, No. 115/C, “Wijegiri”,
Mulleriyawa. Kalalpitiya, Pasyala.
(07) Mrs. Herath Mudiyanselage Mr. Wijesooriya Achchillage
41901 Bandara Manika, Gunawardene,
Hene Niwasa, Handugala,
Handugala Pothuhara.
Pothuhara.
(08) Mr. Lelwalage Hemakeerthi, Mrs. Pothupitiyage Chandrani Silva,
41919 No. 116/8, De Mal Road, 154/2A, Kaldamulla Road,
Luxapathiya, Moratuwa.
Moratuwa.
(09) Mrs. Lokuliyanage Dona Kusuma Chandralatha Mrs. Sellapperumage Kumarasiri Fernando,
41927 No. 22, 3rd Lane, No. 62, Peduru Mawatha,
Rawathawatta, Moratumulla,
Moratuwa. Moratuwa.
(10) Mrs. Bogahagedara Lalitha Malini, Mr. Weeraratne Luwis Arachchilage
41930 No. 18/1, Manikwatta, Gunathilaka,
Kongahamula, No. 84, Makulgaharuppa,
Palapathwala. Palapathwala.
(11) Mrs. Pathiraja Mudiyanselage Mrs. Liyanage Dinushi Priyadarshani,
41933 Indra Kumarihamy, No. 178, Kiula 4(2),
Wattegedara, Kottukachchiya.
Yatigaloluwa.
(12) Mr. Dissanayaka Mudiyanselage Rohan Mr. Uyanhewa Gamini Nimal Priyantha,
41952 Dissanayake, No. 120, Badulla Road,
Kamathegedara, Haputale.
Dibbadda,
Warakadanda,
Pattiyagedara.
(13) Mr. Bollagalage Premaratne, Mr. Umagiliyage Jagath Kumara,
41781 63, Sri Saranankara Road, No. 70/A6, Sri Maha Vihara Road,
Bodhiyawatta, Kalubowila.
Dehiwala.
06-113
Case No. Name and Address of Debtor Name and Address of Creditor

<!-- page 4 -->

410 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2011'06'10
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
ACT  OF  PILGRIMAGE
IT is hereby informed that the annual feast of the St. Anthony Church
at Divisional Secretariat Galewela, Wasalakotte, is being held on 18th
and 19th of June, 2011. Under the terms and the conditions of the
Gazette, Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
H. P. P. A. H
EWAPATHIRANA ,
Divisional Secretariat,
Galewela.
On 26th of April, 2011,
At Divisional Secretariat.
06-118
PILGRIMAGES   ORDINANCE
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Public Administration
and Home Affairs in terms of Section 2 of Pilgrimages Ordinance.
(Chap. 175)
W. D. J. SENEVIRATHNE ,
Minister of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
Colombo,
26th April, 2011.
REGULATIONS
1. These Regulations may be cited as the regulations of Vesak
Maha Perahara of Muthyangana Rajamaha Viharaya, Badulla.
2.  In these Regulations camp area referred means the area
described in the schedule.
“District secretary/ Government Agent” means the District
secretary/Government Agent of Badulla administrative district
and it also includes any officer authorized by him in terms of
Regulation 4.
“Medical Officer” means the Health Medical officer-in-
charge of the camp area.
“Pilgrim” means any person who enters and stays within the
camp area for any purpose.
“Police Officer” includes any Grama Niladhari  in charge of
the camp area.
“Public Health Inspector” means the public health inspector
in charge of the camp area.
3. These Regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages made on
Muthyangana Rajamaha Viharaya, Badulla in Badulla Disrict
(on account of Vesak perehera).
4. The Divisional Secretary shall have the power to authorize
any public officer to exercise any power vested in him and
carry out any function assigned to him under this regulation.
5. I. The Divisional Secretary shall have the power to regulate
vehicular traffic or working to or from the camp area.
II. No person shall act contrary to any lawful order given by
any police officer in compliance with the instructions
issued to such police officer by the Divisional Secretary
for the exercise of powers vested in him under the para (1)
of this regulation.
6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the
camp area without the written permission of the Divisional
Secretary. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance
where carts are brought and cattle are driven to a place reserved
for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under regulation 7.
7. (1) The Divisional Secretary shall have the power to reserve
or provide the following places inside the camp area :
(a) Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles.
(b) Places for leaving carts and cattle.
(c) Separate places for the accommodation of each group of
pilgrims.
(d) Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick.
(e) Places for begging and solicitation for charity.
(f) Places for displaying certain items for sale.
(g) Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposes.
(h) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for
washing and other places providing such facilities.
(i) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for
bathing  and other places providing such facilities.
(j) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for
obtaining drinking water and other places providing such
facilities.
(k) Places for other purpose the Divisional Secretary may
deem necessary.
(2) If the Divisional Secretary deems necessary and in case of
any place is reserved or provided for certain purpose under
Para. (I) by him, that place shall be used only for such
purpose and no one shall use any other place within the
camp area for such purpose.
8. If the Divisional Secretary or Medical Officer is of the view
that it is required to add chlorine to any tank, well, water hole
or reservoir situated in the camp area for prevention of
diseases, the Divisional Secretary or Medical Officer shall
have the power to do so.
9. (1) No one shall build any hut or temporary permanent
building or any other construction or make a new addition
to existing building or any other construction for any
purpose in any place within the camp area, reserved or
provided certain purpose under regulation 7, except on a
permit issued by the Divisional Secretary for the relevant
purpose and in accordance with the conditions stipulated
in such permit.

<!-- page 5 -->

411I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2011'06'10
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
(2) If any person builds any hut or temporary permanent
building or any other construction or make a new addition
to existing building or construction contrary to the Para (I)
of this regulation, subsequent to delivery of a written
notice to that person, it is lawful for the Divisional
Secretary to order to remove or demolish such hut or
building or construction within the period of time given in
the notice as the case may be.
(3) Where any person who has been delivered a notice under
the Para. (2) of this regulation, neglects to act in compliance
with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the
period started there in or where a doubt arises as to who
is the actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered
it is lawful for the Divisional Secretary to cause action to
be taken to remove or demolish such hut building,
construction or a new addition made to the existing
building or construction as the case may be. It is also lawful
for the Divisional Secretary to make arrangements to enter
to any land or premises together with laborers, equipment.
10. No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory
reserved by the Divisional Secretary, for the use of pilgrims
on exhibition of a notice or sign board in or near any lavatory.
11. No one shall contaminate any tank, well, water holes. reservoir,
canal stream or rill water located in the camp area.
12. No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area
except in a place or in a container supplied by the GA for this
purpose.
13. (1) The Divisional Secretary shall have the power to stream
line the distribution of all food and beverages to the
pilgrims in the camp area.
(2) No one shall disobey any order to be carried out by Police
Officer or Public Health Inspector in accordance with
instructions given by Divisional Secretary in the exercise
of powers delegated to him under Para. (I) of this regulations.
14. (1) Where any food or drink displayed or placed for sale or
other purpose in the camp area is found to be contaminated
or not suitable for human consumption, the Divisional
Secretary or the Medical Officer or the Public Health
Inspector may announce that such food or drink is not
suitable for human consumption.
(2) No one shall sell within the camp area any food or drink
announced as not suitable for human consumption under
Para. (I) of this regulation.
(3) It shall be lawful for any Police Officer or Public Health
Inspector to prohibit and destroy any food or drink
announced not suitable for human consumption under
Para. (I) of the regulation.
15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where
sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in any place in the
camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose
under the regulation 7 unless they are maintained on a license
issued by the Divisional Secretary and in accordance with
conditions stipulated there in. Every license shall be issued
free of charge on recommendation of the Medical officer or any
officer authorized by such medical officer.
16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made,
eating houses’ and Dansal and all furniture and equipment in
such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.
17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed for sale
or any other purpose in the camp area shall be kept in show
case properly made preventing the files from entering or to the
satisfaction of the Medical officer or the Public Health
Inspector.
18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink
or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes shall be left any
place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be
dumped into the container placed as provided in regulation.
However wastes milk dregs or any refuse have been found
thrown over any place within the camp area or on the ground
close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case
of bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets are made or eating
house or ‘dansal’ the licence holder of such place shall be
deemed to have violated provisions in this regulations unless
such owner chief occupant or license holder proves that all
necessary precautions have been taken and action has been
taken with proper care prevent the commission such offence.
19. All bakers, sweet stalls, place where sweets are made, eating
houses, Dansals and buildings or constructions used for
commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a
wooden or metal garbage container with a capacity for 112
cube meters (4 1/2 cube feet) and it shall always be closed with
a wooden or metal lid unless it is used to dump or remove
garbage.
20. (1) If the Divisional Secretary is of the view that any bakery,
sweet stall, place where sweets are made, eating house,
Danasal or business place have been established or
maintained in violation of regulations 15, 16, 17, 18 or 19
in this section he shall have the authority to close down
such bakery, sweet stall, place where sweet are made,
eating house, Dansal or business place situated within the
camp area or cancel any license with immediate effect if
any license has been issued for such place.
(2) Any person who is in charge of any bakery, sweet stall or
place where sweets are made or business place shall act in
accordance with the lawful directive made by the Divisional
Secretary under chapter (1) of this section.
21. No person suffering from any infection disease or contagious
diseases shall enter the camp. area
22. (1) It shall be lawful for the Government agent to order the
pilgrims to leave the camp area and for the Divisional

<!-- page 6 -->

412 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2011'06'10
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
Secretary to determine the route of leaving and mode of
transport to be used for leaving when on epidemic is
spreading in such area.
(2) No person shall act against any legal order given by the
Divisional Secretary under Para. (I) of this section.
23. Every person suffering from any infectious disease or
contagious disease within the camp area, and when a person
is knowingly living together with a person suffering  from any
infectious disease or contagious disease every such person
shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health
Inspector or any Police Officer immediately.
24. Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where
sweets are made restaurant or Dansal within the camp area
shall not allow any person whom he knows is suffering from
infectious diseases or contagious disease to enter such bakery,
place where sweets are made, eating house of Dansal or
participate in the distribution dale or manufacture of any
material or food or drink.
25. A license holder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place where
sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or an owner or chief
occupant of any lodge or pilgrims rest shall not allow any
person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious
disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place
where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal lodge or pilgrim
rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person
suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease is
staying in such place the license holder or owner or chief
occupant shall report it to the medical officer or the public
health officer or any police officer immediately.
26. No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity
either by cash or by any other means within the camp area
except in a place reserved or provided for begging and
solicitation for charity under regulation 7.
27. No person shall light fire works or use any fire arms within
the camp area with a written permission from the Divisional
Secretary.
28. No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name
board displayed in any place under regulation 7 or 10.
29. It shall be lawful for the Divisional Secretary, Medical Officer,
Public Health Inspector or any Police officer to,
(a) Enter any land or place within the camp area for the
purpose of carrying out any regulation from among these
regulations and,
(b) To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the
camp area for the purpose of displaying a notice or a name
board under regulation 7.
30. It shall be lawful for the Divisional Secretary to cancel at any
time.
(a) Any permission given under regulation 6 or regulation 27.
(b) Permit issued under regulation 9.
(c) Any license issued under regulation 15.
If he considers that the cancellation is appropriate or in the
public interest.
SCHEDULE
Precincts where Muthyangana Rajamaha Viharaya, Badulla is
situated in 78B East Grama Niladari Division, Badulla Town in
Divisional Secretariat Division, Badulla in Badulla District in the
same precincts belonging to Muthyangana Rajamaha Viharaya,
Badulla.
South: Kumarasinghe Road, Sumanathissagama Rajamaha
Viharaya, Badulla;
East : New Passara Road and Kumarasinghe Road;
North : Anagarika Dharmapala Mawatha and New Passara Road;
West : Badulu Oya and Longden Road.
06-180
 PILGRIMAGES  ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER THE
PILGRIMAGES - 175) ESALA  FESTIVAL  OF
RUHUNU  MAHA  KATHARAGAMA  DEVALE
IT is hereby notified for information of the General Public that the
above festival will commence on the 01st July, 2011 and terminate
on 16th July, 2011.
The General public are informed that the regulations published
in the following Gazette notifications, in terms of the provisions of
the Pilgrimages Ordinance, shall be in force within the duration of the
festival.
Government Gazette No. 9859 of 30.04.1948
Government Gazette No. 10000 of 22.07.1949
Government Gazette No. 11255 of 07.02.1958
Government Gazette No. 12508 of 07.07.1961
Government Gazette No. 12947 of 02.03.1962
U. K. S. M
IHIDUKULASOORIYA ,
District Secretary/Government Agent,
Moneragala.
The District Secretariat,
Moneragala.
27th May, 2011.
ESALA FESTIVAL OF RUHUNU MAHA
KATHARAGAMA DEVALE - 2011
Attention of the General Public is invited to Regulations relating
to pilgrimages published in Gazette No. 9859 dated 30.04.1948, No.
10000 dated 22.07.1949, No. 11255 dated 07.02.1958, No. 12508

<!-- page 7 -->

413I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2011'06'10
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2011
dated 07.07.1961, No. 12947 dated 02.03.1962. I hereby notify the
following particulars relating to those regulations.
01. Camp Area :
“Camp area” means (a) the area within a radius of a mile from
the ford of the Menik Ganga at Katharagama and (b) the area
within a radius of Quarter mile from the Pulleyar Kovil at Sella
Katharagama.
02. Construction of Buildings:
No person Shall construct any building or boutique whether
permanent or temporary within the camp area during the
period of 01st July, 2011 to 16th July, 2011 without a written
permission obtained from any other authorized officer.
03. Beggars:
No person shall solicit alms within the camp area except in the
beggar hut constructed near the second bridge over the Menik
Ganga or within a distance of five yards from there and no
person shall distributes any alms to beggars within the camp
area except at the aforesaid places.
04. Bathing and washing:
No person shall bath or wash cloths or animals within the area
of 3 miles upward the Menik Ganga extending from the place
of pumping water through the Katharagama Water Supply
Scheme.
05. Vehicles:
5.1 No person shall enter any motor vehicle, bicycle, bullock
cart or any other vehicle to the sacred area (Eastern part
of Menik Ganga) without a permit issued by me or any
other authorized officer.
5.2  No person shall park any vehicle within the camp area
except within the areas reserve for parking vehicles in the
new town.
06. Barber Saloons:
No person shall establish any barber saloon within the camp
area except the places reserved for the purpose.
07. Kavadi Kada:
No person shall establish any Kavadi Kada without a permit
issued by me or any other authorized officer.
08. Marketing:
8.1 Hawkers are not allowed to sell anything within the
sacred area, pilgrims rest area, bus stand and on or near
foot bridges No. 01 and No. 02.
8.2 No person shall sell “Thinnoru, Ice-cream, Pooja Bhanda,
Pooja trays, Food items or any other commodities
outside the areas reserved for that purpose.
8.3 No person shall establish or maintain any sale outlet
within the sacred area except selling  of   flowers within
the sheds already constructed on either sides of the road
leading to Kirivehera.
8.4 Every building and every boutique shall have a dustbin
and all refuse should be deposited therein.
8.5 All processed foods exposed for sale should be kept in
boxes with covers so as to protect them from files.
U. K. S. Mihidukulasooriya,
District Secretary/Government Agent,
Moneragala.
The District Secretariat,
Moneragala.
27th May, 2011.
06-287
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Miscellaneous Departmental Notices
Correction Notice
PAN   ASIA   BANKING   CORPORATION   PLC
GALLE    BRANCH
NOTICE of Resolution of Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC
published in the Government Gazette dated 20.05.2011 pertaining
to Upuli Offset Printers (Private) Limited of Galle Branch. In line
03 the heading published as “Resolution 
to be adopted by the Board
of Directors of the Bank under Section 4 of the Recovery of Loans
by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990” is corrected as
“Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of the Bank under
Section 4 of the Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 04 of 1990”.
06-217
Correction Notice
PAN    ASIA    BANKING    CORPORATION   PLC
MAHARAGAMA    BRANCH
NOTICE of Resolution of Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC
published in the Government Gazette dated 20.05.2011 pertaining
to K. Y. D. Perera and T. P. S. D. Pathirana partners of Senron
Enterprises of Maharagama Branch. In line 03 the heading published
as “Resolution 
to be adopted by the Board of Directors of the Bank
under Section 4 of the Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990” is corrected as “Resolution adopted
by the Board of Directors of the Bank under Section 4 of the
Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of
1990”.
06-218