

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1725$15 - 2011 iema;eïn¾ 29 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2011'09'29
No. 1725/15 - THURSDAY ,   SEPTEMBER  29,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Rules enforced under Western Province Aestheitic Resort Administrative Authority Statute, No. 01
of 2010 of the Western Provincial  Council
ACCORDING to the powers entrusted in me under sections 14 and 11 (2) of Western Province Aesthetic Resort Administrative
Authority Statute, No. 01 of 2010 of the Western Provincial Council, I, as the Minister of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs,
Cultural and Arts Affairs, Co-operative Development, Food Supplies and Distribution Affairs and Rural Development of the
Western Provincial Council, do hereby enact the following stated rules. These rules shall some into force from the date they
are published in the Gazette Paper.
H
EWA MATHARAGE UPALI KODIKARA,
Minister of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs,
Cultural and Arts Affairs, Co-operative Development,
Food Supplies and Distribution Affairs of the Western Province.
Ministry of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs,
Cultural and Arts Affairs, Co-operative Development,
Food Supplies and Distribution Affairs of the Western Province,
No. 204, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
27th of September, 2011,
RULES ENFORCED UNDER WESTERN PROVINCE AESTHETIC RESORT ADMINISTRATIVE
AUTHORITY STATUTE, No. 01 OF 2010 OF THE WESTERN PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Rules enforced by the Hon. Minister of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs, Cultural and Arts Affairs, Co-
operative Development, Food Supplies and Distribution and Rural Development of the Western Province
according to the Section 14 and 11(2) of the Western Province Aesthetic Resort Administrative Authority
Statute No. 01 of 2010 of the Western Provincial Council.
01. These Rules shall be named as Aesthetic Resort Administrative Authority Rules 2010 of the
Western Provincial Council.
Short Title and
date of
enactment

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2011
2A
02. (1) All the meetings of the Administrative Authority shall be summoned by the Director.
(2) The members of the Authority shall be made to receive the Agenda 3 days prior to the
scheduled meeting.
(3) Whenever possible, the meetings of the Authority shall be held at the Western Province
Aesthetic Resort.
(4) The Chairman of the Authority possesses the decisive vote when votes opposing and in
favour become equal at a ballot of the Authority.
(5) It is the responsibility of the Director to maintain records pertaining to members' attendance.
03. By utilizing the following mentioned powers, the relevant functions shall be accomplished by
the Director.
(1) Making provisions required to accomplish the powers and functions of the Authority.
(2) Keeping the reports pertaining to decisions taken by the Authority filed in order.
(3) Implementing the decisions taken by the Authority, making post inquires and providing the
Authority with feedback reports.
(4) According to the policies taken by the Authority having prepared a short term, middle term
and long term plan for the Western Provincial Aesthetic Resort and implementing it under the
approval of the Authority.
(5) Having prepared an annual budget estimate in order to implement the functions of the Western
Province Aesthetic Resort and obtain the approval of the Authority.
(6) When annual estimated limits are not sufficient, prepare supplementary estimates for that
and obtaining the approval of the Authority.
(7) At the end of each quarter, receipts and payment report shall be prepared and presenting the
said report to the Authority within 30 days of the termination of that quarter.
(8) Making provisions to account properly the annual income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
of the Western Province Aesthetic Resort and informing the Administrative Authority.
(9) Accomplishing remunerations, service conditions and recruitment procedures of officers
and employees on the recommendation of the Authority and the Secretary to the Ministry,
and having obtained the assent of the Governor of the Western Province.
(10) S tabilizing the protection of all the assets in the possession of the Authority, holding their
custody and maintain stock having them documented.
(11) Ordering the charges levied for the services and facilities of the Western Province Aesthetic
Resort under the recommendation of the Authority.
(12) Having prepared a methodology to be followed when reserving services and facilities of the
Western Province Aesthetic Resort and Implementing it under the approval of the Authority.
Summoning and
conducting the
meetings of
Administrative
Authority
Powers of the
Director and
functions

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2011
(13) All the formats, applications, service charges, relief provided for charges, advances and
charging the balance from the total amount, amounts of penalties should be prepared by the
Director and implemented upon receiving the approval of the Authority.
(14) Having prepared a code of conditions to be obeyed, followed and refrained from within the
institution during the relevant time period by whoever a person or group or institution
obtaining services or facilities of the Western Province Aesthetic Resort and implementing it
under the approval of the Authority.
(15) If any harmful consequences would occur to national safety or local culture as a result of any
performances, musical shows, entertainment activities or by any other function carried out
within the Western Province Aesthetic Resort, take action to suspend or cancel such activity
and report to the Authority with regard to them.
(16) Ordering criteria in relation to courses conducted by the external instructors and guarantee
that activities are carried out in accordance with such orders.
(17) Identifying maintenance requirements and methodology needed to affirm durability and better
functioning of all the permanent and temporary physical resources and all the systems of
Western Province Aesthetic Resort and its premises, identifying in definite time spans in
which they should be carried out and maintaining  a close supervision having established a
proper operational mechanism.
04 (1) Prior to one month of termination of the financial year, the budget estimate for the next year
shall be adopted having presented it to the Authority by the Director.
(2) The final accounts of the Authority should be presented to the Auditor General through the
Chief Accounting Officer at the termination of that year and prior to 31st of March of the
oncoming year.
(3) Final accounts should be signed by both the Chairman and Director.
(4) The bank account of the Fund of the Authority shall be maintained at a state bank approved
by the Authority.
(5) The receipts and payments procedure of the Authority having prepared by the Director
should be implemented on the approval of the Authority.
(6) The Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject shall become the Chief Accounting
Officer pertaining to all transactions of the Authority and the Chairman and the Director both,
as the Accounting Officer, are answerable to the Chief Accounting Officer.
(7) Based on the income and expenditure earned by the Western Province Aesthetic Resort and
as decided by the Authority, the monthly allowances for the Chairman can be paid under the
recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry and on the assent of the Governor.
(8) The Authority shall function according to the Procurement Procedure Code and Guidelines
Code issued by the State and Western Provincial Council.
(9) For the programmes of the Western Provincial Council Special Sponsorship can be provided
under the recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry by charging the greater amount
Financial and
Administrative
Procedures of
the
Administrative
Authority

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2011
4A
from either a 50% amount charged by the Authority or the amount obtained by calculating the
basic cost and by adding 25% to that while taking that amount as the minimum.
(10) On the recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry, a sponsorship can be provided for
the programs conducted by the Provincial Ministry of Cultural Affairs under which the
Authority functions, by calculating the basic cost of that programme and having added 15%
to that amount.
(11) Until the regulations for administration and Financial Rules are composed for the Authority
by the Authority, the Financial Rules of the Western Provincial Council and the provisions of
the Establishment Code shall be enforced.
(12) The Director is subjected to the control of the Chairman while all the other officers are
subjected to the control of the Director.
(13) The staff of the Authority should comprise the cadre approved by the Department of
Management Services and according to the Recruitment Procedure assented by the Governor
and the relevant appointments, promotions and expelling from service of the said cadre
should be in accordance with such procedures.
(14) The Secretary in charge of the subject shall become the Authority in charge of discipline.
5. (1) Courses pertaining to the subject of Aesthetics and which charge of fee either for the
improvement of the Western Province Aesthetic Resort or for the uplifting of the trainees can
be conducted.
(2) This place can also be let on rent or lease to external instructors for the purpose of teaching
Aesthetic subjects.
(3) Grants, prizes or donations received locally or foreign as money or as material equipment
which are in accordance with the aims of the Western Province Aesthetic Resort Administrative
Authority Statute shall be accounted or stock registered as relevant.
(4) Foreign performances, exchanges, and establishing relationships with local and foreign
institutions pertaining to Aesthetic subjects can also be conducted.
10-321
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
Getting the
aims, powers,
functions and
tasks of the
Administrative
Authority
accomplished.