

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of August 12, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 15. 08. 2016)
SRI  LANKA  SUSTAINABLE  DEVELOPMENT
A
BILL
to provide for the development and implementation of a National
Policy and Strategy on Sustainable Development in Sri Lanka; for the
establishment  of  a  Sustainable   Development  Council  and  for   matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Ordered to be published by the Minister of National Policies and
Economic Affairs
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 13.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
PL 002773

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka Sustainable Development
5
10
15
20
2—PL 010091—425 (07/2016)
Short title.
L.D.—O. 1/2016.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF A
NATIONAL POLICY AND STRATEGY ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
IN SRI LANKA; FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO
WHEREAS the seventeen Sustainable Development Goals
and one hundred and sixty nine associated targets were
adopted by United Nation Member States in Two Thousand
Fifteen:
AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka intends to design, develop and
implement a National Policy and Strategy on Sustainable
Development and facilitate all agencies responsible and to
follow up and monitor the progress:
AND WHEREAS  Sri Lanka would set its own national
targets guided by the global level of ambition but taking
into account national interest and circumstances and also
incorporate such seventeen Sustainable Development Goals
in national planning processes, policies and strategies in
the relevant ongoing processes in the economic, social and
environmental fields:
NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Sustainable
Development Act, No. … of 2016.
2. The objects of this Act shall be to-
(a) ensure that the National Policy and Strategy on
Sustainable Development is prepared in
accordance with the section 11 of this Act and
Preamble.
Objects of
this Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Lanka Sustainable Development2
5
10
15
20
25
provide the legal framework for developing and
implementing such National Policy and Strategy
on Sustainable Development;
(b) ensure an ecologically efficient use of natural,
social and economic resources;
(c) to promote the integration of  environmental,
economic and social factors in the making of all
decisions by government; and
(d) formulate strategies in accordance with
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section.
PART I
E
STABLISHMENT OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
3. (1) There shall be established for the purpose of this
Act, a Council called the Sustainable Development Council
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Council’).
(2) The Council shall, by the name assigned to it by this
section be a body Corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
4. ( 1) The Council shall consists of the following
members:–
(a) the ex-officio members––
(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned  the subject of Sustainable
Development;
(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned  the subject of National Planning or his
nominee;
Establishment
of the
Sustainable
Development
Council.
Constitution
of the
Council.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka Sustainable Development
5
10
15
20
25
30
(iii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned  the subject of Environment or his
nominee;and
(b) eight other members (hereinafter referred to as the
“appointed members”), appointed by the President–
(i) two members  appointed by him on his own
volition;
(ii) one member nominated by the Prime
Minister;
(iii)  two memb ers nominated by the Minister
assigned the subject of Sustainable
Development; and
(iv) three members out of the nine persons
nominated by the Provincial Councils; at the
expiration of the term of office of such
members appointed under this sub-paragraph,
the balance number of persons nominated
by the Provincial Councils shall be
considered for second and third appointment
in rotation.
(2)  The Chairman of the Council shall be appointed by
the President from among its members.
(3) Every appointed member shall possess academic or
professional qualifications and wide experience in
environment or economics or social science and possesses
specific experience in relation to sustainable development.
(4) Every appointed member other than the appointed
members under sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph ( b) of
subsection (1) shall unless he vacates office earlier by death,
resignation or removal, hold office for a term of three years
from the date of his appointment and shall unless he has
been removed, be eligible for reappointment.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Lanka Sustainable Development4
5
10
15
20
25
Quorum and
meetings of
the Council.
(5) Every appointed member under sub-paragraph (iv) of
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) shall unless he vacates office
earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office for a
term of one year from the date of his appointment and shall
unless he has been removed, be eligible for reappointment.
(6) The President may, if he considers it expedient to do
so, remove from office any appointed member after assigning
reasons therefor.
(7) Any appointed member may, at any time resign his
office by a letter to that effect, addressed to the President
and sent by registered post.
(8) In the event of vacation of office by death, resignation
or removal of any appointed member, the President may
having regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) appoint any other person to succeed such member. Any
member so appointed shall hold office for the unexpired
term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
(9) Where an appointed member, by reason of illness,
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period of not less
than three months, is temporarily unable to perform his duties,
it shall be the duty of such member to inform the President
in writing of such inability. The President may, on receipt of
such information, having regard to the provisions of
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) appoint some other person to
act in his place.
5. (1) The quorum for a meeting of the Council shall be
five members.
(2) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the
Council.  In the absence of the Chairman from any meeting
of the Council, the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Sustainable Development shall
preside at such meeting.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka Sustainable Development
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) All questions for  decision at any meeting of the
Council shall be decided by the vote of the majority of
members present at such meeting. In the case of an equality
of votes, the Chairman shall, in addition to his vote have a
casting vote.
(4) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,
the Council may regulate the procedure in relation to the
meetings of the Council and the transaction of business at
such meetings.
6. No act or proceeding of the Council shall be invalid
by reason only of the existence of any vacancy in the Council
or any defect in the appointment of a member of the Council.
7. The members of the Council shall be remunerated in
such manner and at such rates as may be determined by the
Minister with the concurrence of the Minister assigned the
subject of Finance.
8. A person referred to in paragraph ( b) of subsection
(1) of section 4 shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Council –
(a) if he is or becomes a member of, Parliament, any
Provincial Council or any local authority;
(b) if he has been declared an insolvent or an un-
discharged bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or
any other country;
(c) if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any
other country found or declared to be of unsound
mind;
(d) if he is convicted of an offence involving in moral
turpitude and punishable with imprisonment for a
term not less than six months;
Acts or
proceedings
of the
Council
deemed not
to be invalid
by reason of
any vacancy.
Remuneration
of the
members of
the Council.
Disqualification
from being a
member of
the Council.

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Lanka Sustainable Development6
5
10
15
20
25
30
(e) if he is serving or has served a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by a Court of Sri Lanka or
any other country; or
(f) if he has any financial or other interest as is likely,
to affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his
functions as a member of the Council.
9. (1) The seal of the Council shall be in the custody of
such person as the Council may decide from time to time.
(2) The seal of the Council may be altered in such manner
as may be determined by the Council.
(3) The seal of the Council shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except with the sanction of the
Council and in the presence of two members of the Council
who shall sign the instrument or document in token of their
presence.
(4) The Council shall maintain a register of the instruments
and documents to which the seal of the Council has been
affixed.
10. The Powers, functions and duties of the Council
shall be–
(a) to facilitate the achievement of national, regional
and  international commitments relating to
sustainable development;
(b) to formulate National Policy and Strategy on
Sustainable Development in consultation and with
the concurrence of all relevant parties and nine
Provincial Councils and place before the Cabinet
of Ministers for approval;
(c) to review and update the National Policy and
Strategy on Sustainable Development periodically
as and when the Cabinet of Ministers so decides;
Seal of the
Council.
Powers,
functions and
duties of the
Council.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Lanka Sustainable Development
5
10
15
20
25
30
(d) to issue guidelines relating to sustainable
development to the ministries, provincial councils
and project approving agencies in respect of new
development projects;
(e) to facilitate and monitor the  mechanisms and
progress review processes of the implementation of
such  National Policy and Strategy on Sustainable
Development;
(f) to appoint expert committees to study any specific
matter;
(g) to identify sustainable development standards and
ecological footprint indicators;
(h) to promote sustainable development including
research and development, innovation, education
and awareness;
(i) to identify, introduce and follow up the
mechanisms, audits and all other matters relating
to sustainable development;
(j) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, any
immovable property;
(k) to open, maintain and close current and savings
accounts in any State bank:
(l) to accept grants, gifts or donations from persons or
bodies of persons, in or out side Sri Lanka:
Provided that, the Council shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of National Policies and Economic
Affairs, in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or
donations made to the Council;

<!-- page 9 -->

Sri Lanka Sustainable Development8
(m) to enter into, or perform, all such contracts as may
be necessary for the exercise of its powers or the
discharge of its functions; and
(n) to borrow such sums of money as may be necessary
for discharging of its functions.
PART II
NATIONAL POLICY AND STRATEGY ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
11. (1) The National Policy and Strategy on Sustainable
Development shall be in conformity with the Sustainable
Development goals and associated targets.
(2) The National Policy and Strategy on Sustainable
Development shall be for a period of fifteen  years.
(3) The Council shall forward the National Policy and
Strategy on Sustainable Development to the Minister who
shall, with the concurrence of the Cabinet of Ministers cause
such National Policy and Strategy on Sustainable
Development including any amendment thereto, to be
published in the Gazette.
(4) The Minister shall lay such National Policy and
Strategy on Sustainable Development before the Parliament
for approval.
(5) The National Policy and Strategy on Sustainable
Development which is not so approved shall be deemed to
be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval.
(6) Upon the approval granted by the Parliament under
subsection (4), such National Policy and Strategy on
Sustainable Development shall be the National Policy and
Strategy on Sustainable Development.
Approval for
the National
Policy and
Strategy on
Sustainable
Development.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 10 -->

9Sri Lanka Sustainable Development
(7) It shall be the duty of every ministry, department,
provincial council, provincial ministry and department and
any local authority to comply with the National Policy and
Strategy on Sustainable Development .
12. (1) Every ministry, department, provincial council,
provincial ministry and department and local authority
shall prepare the Sustainable Development Strategy
relevant to the scope of such ministry, department, provincial
council, provincial ministry and department and local
authority in accordance with the National Policy and
Strategy on Sustainable Development within a period of
one year from the date of approval under subsection (6) of
section 11 by the Parliament.
(2) Every ministry, department, provincial council,
provincial ministry and department and local authority shall
submit the progress report on the Sustainable Development
Strategy prepared under subsection (1) within a period as
may be required by the Minister.
13. Every ministry, department, provincial council,
provincial ministry and department and local authority shall–
(a) cause an environmental, and social audit to be done
on the new development projects; and
(b) ensure the environmental and social security on
the new development projects.
14. The annual report of every ministry, department,
provincial council, provincial ministry and department and
local authority shall include a statement as to the compliance
with the National Policy and Strategy on Sustainable
Development.
Annual
report of the
ministry &c.
Environment
and social
audit.
Sustainable
Development
Strategy of
the ministries
&c.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 11 -->

Sri Lanka Sustainable Development10
5
10
15
20
25
30
PART III
STAFF OF THE COUNCIL
15. (1) There shall be appointed by the Cabinet of
Ministers, a person to be the Director-General of the Council,
who shall be its Chief Executive Officer.
(2) The Director-General shall be entitled to be present at
all meetings of the Council and to speak at such meetings,
but shall not be entitled to vote at any such meetings.
(3) The Council shall assess the requirement of the
minimum staff required for efficient operation and appoint
such other officers and servants as are necessary for the
purpose of carrying out the objects of the Act.
(4) The Director-General shall, subject to the general
direction and control of the Council, be responsible for the
conduct of all affairs of the Council, including the
administrative control of the officers and servants of the
Council.
(5) The Director-General shall be paid such remuneration
as may be determined by Cabinet of Ministers.
(6) The Cabinet of Ministers may, for reasons assigned
therefor remove from office the Director-General appointed
under subsection (1).
16. Whenever the Director-General is by reason of
illness or absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause
unable to discharge or perform  any of his functions or duties,
the Minister may with the concurrence of the Council,
appoint any other senior officer of the Council to act in his
place during such absence.
17. (1) At the request of the Council any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed to the
staff of the Council for such period as may be determined by
Director-
General of
the Council.
Temporary
absence of
the Director-
General.
Appointment
of public
officers to
the staff of
the Council.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Sri Lanka Sustainable Development
5
10
15
20
25
30
the Council or with like consent, be permanently appointed
to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis
apply to and in relation to him.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis
apply to and in relation to him.
(4) Where the Council employs any person who has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period under
any agreement, any  period of service to the Council by
that person shall be regarded as service to the Government
for the purpose of discharging the obligations of such
agreement.
18. (1) At the request of the Council, any officer or
servant of a public corporation may, with the consent of
such officer or servant and the governing body of such public
corporation, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Council for such period as may be determined by the Council
or  with like consent, be permanently appointed to such staff
on such terms and conditions, including those relating to
pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreed upon by
the Council and the governing body of the public
corporation concerned.
(2) At the request of the Council, any officer or servant of
any higher educational institution may, with the consent of
that officer or servant and the principal executive officer of
that higher educational institution, be temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Council for such period as may be
determined by the Council or  with like consent be
Appointment
of officers in
public
corporations
or higher
educational
institutions to
the staff of
the Council.

<!-- page 13 -->

Sri Lanka Sustainable Development12
permanently appointed to such staff, on such terms and
conditions, including those relating to pension or provident
fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Council and such
principal executive officer.
(3) Where any person is temporarily appointed to the
staff of the Council under subsection (1) or subsection (2),
as the case may be, such person shall be subject to the same
disciplinary control as any other member of the staff of the
Council.
PART IV
GENERAL
19. (1) The financial year of the Council shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The provisions of the Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the auditing of accounts shall apply in relation to
the audit of accounts of the Council.
20. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38
of 1971, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of
the financial control and accounts of the Council.
21. (1) The Council may subject to such conditions
as may be specified in writing, delegate to the Chairman
or member of the Council or Director-General any of
its powers, functions or duties under this Act, and the
Chairman or such member or Director-General shall
exercise, perform or discharge such power, function or duty
subject to any special or general directions issued by
the Council.
(2) Notwithstanding any delegation made under
subsection (1), the Council may exercise, perform or
discharge any such power, function or duty so delegated.
Financial
year and the
audit of
accounts.
Application
of Part II of
the Finance
Act, No.38
of 1971.
Delegation of
powers,
functions and
duties of the
Council.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 14 -->

13Sri Lanka Sustainable Development
22. The Minister may, from time to time issue such
general or special directions to the Council relating to the
exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, functions
and duties under this Act and it shall be the duty of the
Council to comply with such directions.
23. All members of the Council, officers, servants and
agents of the Council shall be deemed to be public servants
within the meaning and for the purpose of the Penal Code
(Chapter 19).
24. The Council shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter
26) and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.
25. (1) All expenses incurred by the Council in any suit
or prosecution brought by or against it before any court,
shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund and only costs
paid to or recovered by the Council in any such suit or
prosecution, shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund .
(2) Any expenses incurred by a member of the Council,
Director-General or any officer or servant of the Council, in
any suit or prosecution brought by or against such person
before any court in respect of any act which is done or
purported to be done by such person under this Act shall, if
the court holds that such act was done in good faith, be paid
out of the Consolidated Fund , unless such expenses are
recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.
26. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act, in particular in respect of all or any of
the following matters:-
(a) the issuance of guidelines to the Project Approving
Agencies;
Directions of
the Minister.
Regulations.
Expenses to
be paid out
of the Fund
of the
Council.
Council
deemed to be
a Scheduled
Institution.
All members
of the
Council etc.
deemed to be
public
servants.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 15 -->

Sri Lanka Sustainable Development14
(b) the monitoring mechanisms and progress review
processes on Sustainable Development Strategy
implementation;
(c) the sustainability standards and ecological foot
print indicators;
(d) the mechanisms for scoring or weighting projects;
(e) the criteria for carrying out appropriate social and
environmental audits;
(f) the categories of development projects and complex
projects; and
(g) the mechanisms for review of requests for approval
of complex projects by Project Approving Agencies.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister under
subsection (1), shall after obtaining the approval of the
Cabinet of Ministers be published in the Gazette and shall
come into operation on the date of such publication or on
such later date as may be specified in the regulation.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister under
subsection (1) shall within a period of three months from the
date of its publication in the Gazette be brought before
Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of such disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation shall
be deemed to be so rescinded, shall be published in the
Gazette.
27. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–
“Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject
of Sustainable Development;
Interpretation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 16 -->

15Sri Lanka Sustainable Development
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
“project approving agencies” includes ministries
departments, provincial councils, provincial
ministries and departments and local authorities
and all other Government and Provincial
Council Agencies;
“sustainability” means the capacity of a thing,
action, activity or process to be maintained
indefinitely; and
“sustainable development” means development that
meets the needs of the present without
compromising the ability of future generations
to meet their own needs.
28. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15

<!-- page 17 -->

Sri Lanka Sustainable Development16
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .