

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 119
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 116
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"950 – 2016 ckjdß ui 14 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2016'01'14
No. 1,950 – ThuRsday ,  JaNuaRy  14, 2016
N. B.-   Part IV(a) of the Gazette No. 1,949 of 08.01.2016 was not published.
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
aTTENTIoN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th February, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd  January, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
113

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
114
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
115
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
116
Posts – Vacant
Dep artment  of  registrar  of  Comp anies 
Cancellation Notice
recruitment to the management assistant non-technical section 2 post (Company inspector) in the Department 
of registrar of Companies under the ministry of industry and Commerce
THE notice of the above matter published in the Gazette No. 1920 dated 19.06.2015 and No. 1923 dated 10.07.2015 shall be cancelled 
by the Order of the Secretary of the Public Service Commission.
Registrar General of Companies. 
Department of Registrar of Companies, 
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha, 
Colombo 10, 
15th January, 2016. 
01-511
___________________
registrar   general ’s   Dep artment
posts of registrars - marriages, Births and Deaths in tamil medium
 
BaTTiCalOa   DiSTRiCT
aPPliCaTiONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Birth, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government a gents) and l and and District 
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 15th February, 
2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/a3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
23rd December, 2015.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
  Division Application is  called Applications should be sent
Batticaloa Manmunai North Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of The District Secretary/The additional 
   Kokkuvil Division and Marriages  Registrar General, District   
   (General) of Manmunai North Division  Secretariat Batticaloa. 
01–523

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
117
ministry  of  HealtH,  nutrition  anD 
inDigenous  meDiCine 
recruitment on the open Basis to the posts belonging 
to the related officer Category
(audiovisual officer, publicity officer, micro 
photographer)
aPPliCaTiONS are called from Sri l ankan citizens who are 
eligible under No. 02 for recruitment to the vacancies giving 
before the following posts belonging to the related officer category 
MN-04-2006a in Ministry of Health, Nutrition and i ndigenous 
Medicine. 
 Designation No. of Vacancies 
audiovisual Officer 02
Publicity Officer 02
Micro Photographer 02
1. Method of Recruitment.– From the applicants who have 
fulfilled the following qualifications mentioned in this notification, 
those who will obtain highest marks from structured interview 
conducted by an interview board appointed by the Public Service 
Commission, will be conducted according to the marking scheme 
(mention under No. 06) approved by the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous Medicine. 
2. Required Qualifications : 
 (i) Education Qualification  : (Education qualifications 
relevant to each post are given before the post)
Designation Education Qualifications 
audiovisual Officer (i) Should have obtained a 
degree with Social Science 
or Education as a subject 
from a university recognized 
by the University Grant 
Commission
Publicity Officer (i) Should have obtained a degree 
in Mass Communication 
from a university recognized 
by the University Grant 
Commission
Micro Photographer (i) Should have obtained a 
degree with physics as a 
subject from a university 
recognized by the University 
Grant Commission
(Qualifications given under No. ii, iii, iv and below are 
relevant to all three posts)
 (ii) Professional Qualifications.– Professional Qualifications 
relevant to the field will be considered as additional 
qualification. 
 (iii) Experience.– Experience relevant to the field will be 
considered as an additional qualification. 
 (iv) Physical fitness.– Every candidate should physically 
and mentally be fit to serve in any part of Sri l anka 
where he/she is called upon to serve.
 (v) Other Qualifications : 
 (i) applicants should have fulfilled all qualifications 
as at the closing date of calling applications. 
 (ii) applicants should be citizens of Sri lanka.
 (iii) applicants should possess an excellent character. 
3. Terms of Engagement : 
 (i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Officers 
are required to make contributions to Widows'/
Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Fund. 
 (ii) Officers appointed to this post will be on probation for 
a period of 3 years and first efficiency bar examination 
should be passed within these 3 years. 
 (iii) Officers should obtain the relevant proficiency in 
official language other than the medium in which 
he/she entered the service within 05 years after 
recruitment as per Public a dministration Circular 
No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and officers who have 
not entered the service in an officers who have not 
entered the service in an official language are required 
to obtained prescribed official language are required 
to obtained prescribed official language proficiency 
during the period of probation. 
 (iv) This appointment will be subject to procedural rules 
of Public Service Commission, Establishment Code of 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, Financial 
Regulations of Government and other departmental 
orders. 
4. Age limit.– applicants should be not less than 21 years and 
not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date. 
5. Salary Scale.– This post carries a salary scale of MN-4-
2006(a) Rs. 15,215 -10x215 - 4x240 - 7x320 - 15x360 - Rs. 25,965 
terms of the salary circular P . a. C. No. 6/2006.
6. Marks will be given at the structured interview based on the 
following marking scheme :
 Lain areas for which  Maximum Minimum marks
 marks are given Marks considered for 
   selection 
additional Education  20
 Qualifications
Professional Qualifications 20
Experience 25
language Proficiency 10 Not Relevant
Computer Knowledge 20
Performance at the interview 05
    Total 100

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P aRT  I :  sEc.  (IIa) – GaZETTE oF ThE dEMocRaTIc socIaLIsT REPuBLIc oF sRI LaNKa – 14.01.2016
118
7. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates who have completed the 
application in all respects will only be called for the structured 
interview. 
Originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should be 
submitted at the interview. 
Following documents of identity will be accepted to prove 
their identity at the interview. 
 (i) National identity Card issued by the Commissioner of 
Registration of persons, 
 (ii) Valid passport. 
8. Submission of Applications : 
 (i) applications should be sent to the Secretary (Director 
admin 07 Branch) Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine, No. 385, Rev. Baddegama 
Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 by 
registered post on or before 16.02.2016 application 
received after the closing date will be rejected. 
 (ii) a specimen of the application which should 
be submitted is appended to this notification. 
applications should be prepared using a paper of size 
a4 and from No. 01 to No. 05 appear on the first page 
and from N. 06 - No. 09 should appear on the second 
page. The application should be perfected in the hand 
writing of the candidate. 
 (iii) The post applied for should be written on the top left  
hand corner of hte envelope in which the application 
is enclosed.
 (iv) Candidate's signature in the application should be 
attested by a principal of a government school, a 
justice of the peace , a Commissioner for Oaths, a 
Notary public, a ttorney-at-law, a commissioned 
officer in the armed forces, or an officer in the armed 
forces, or an officer holding a permanent post in 
the Public Service who gets a monthly consolidated 
salary of Rs. 22,935.
 (v) Officers who are already in the Public Service 
or Provincial Public Service should sent their 
applications through the respective Head of 
Department. 
 (vi) applications which are not in accordance with the 
specimen form of application will be rejected, No 
complaint about misplace or delay of applications will 
be accepted. 
9. Providing False Information.– if any information provided 
in the application sent by you found to be false or incorrect before 
the recruitment, you rcandidature will be cancelled. i f so found 
after the recruitment, actions will be taken to dismiss from the 
service subject to the relevant procedures. 
10. Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission, circulars 
relevant to Public Service issued from time to time, service minute 
relevant to Grade iii of Executive Service category and conditions 
in amendments made to it are applicable to this post. 
 anura Jayawickrama, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Health, Nutirition and 
 indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of Health and indigenous Medicine, 
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, 
Colombo 10, 
21st December, 2015. 
RECRUiTMENT (OPEN) TO THE aUDiOViSUal OFFiCER, 
PUBliCiTy OFFiCER, MiCRO PHOTOGRaPHER OF THE 
MiNiSTRy OF HEalTH, NUTRiTiON aND iNDiGENOUS 
MEDiCiNE
 Residential District 
Post applied for
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :   
 ––––––––––.
  (in block letter) Eg. : Mr./Mrs./Miss. SilVa a. B.
 1.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
  (in block letter)
 1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 a ddress (Private) :––––––––––.
  (in block letter)
 2.2 a ddress (Private) :––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/Tamil)
 2.3 a ddress (Official) :––––––––––.
  (in block letter)
 2.4 a ddress (Official) :––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/Tamil)
 (an officer who is employed in Public Service/
Provincial  Public Service/Corporation should mention 
his official  address change of address should be informed 
immediately)
03. 3.1 Date of Birth : 
 
  y ear :                       Month : Date:
 3.2 a ge as at closing date : 
  y ears :  Months : Days : 
04. a ge as at closing date :––––––––––.
05. 5.1 Gender :––––––––––.
 5.2 Telephone No. (personal) :––––––––––.
 5.3 Telephone No. (official) :––––––––––.
 5.4 National identity Card No. :––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
119
06. Qualifications :––––––––––.
 (Qualifications under paragraph 02 of the notification)
 Education Qualification :––––––––––.
 Experience :––––––––––.
07. Certification of applicant : 
i, solemnly declare that information given herein are true 
and correct. i agree that if any information herein is found to be 
incorrect or false prior to the selection, my application will be 
rejected and if found so after selection i am liable to dismissed 
from service without any compensation.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
Date :––––––––––.
08. a ttestation of the signature of the applicant : 
i, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................... is known to me 
personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on 
..........................
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attesting.
  (authenticate with the rubber stamp)
Name in full :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
09. Certificate of Head of the Department/institute :
 (Only for the applicants in Public Service/Provincial Public 
Service)
i, certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. has 
been serving in this Department/Provincial Council/i nstitute/
since ................................ and holds a permanent and pensionable/
temporary post and he/she has earned all the increments during 
the past .......................... years and has not been subjected to a 
disciplinary punishment of any kind (except being advised) and 
all the particulars given above were checked referring to the 
records in this office and found correct furthermore i hereby state 
that he, she can/cannot be released from the service if selected and 
he/she placed the signature in presence. 
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Head of the   
 Department/i nstitute. 
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Department/institute :––––––––––.
(authenticate with the rubber stamp)
01–570
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
LImITED  COmPETITIvE  ExAmINATION  fOR  
RECRuITmENT  TO  GRADE III  Of SRI  LANkA  
ADmINISTRATIvE  SERvICE – 2014(2016)
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified Sri Lankan 
citizens for Limited  competitive Examination for recruitment to 
the Posts of Grade III of sri Lanka administrative service. 
1. In this notification the terms : 
 (a) “secretary” means the secretary of the Ministry of 
Public administration and home affairs. 
 (b) “service” means the sri Lanka administrative service. 
2. Recruitment to Grade III of sri Lanka administrative 
service is made by this examination. 
Written examination .– This Examination will consist of 
following four (04) question papers. 
 (i) General Intelligence, 
 (ii) social, Economic, Political background of sri Lanka 
and Global Trends,
 (iii) case study relating to Public administration I (Relevant 
to Establishments code, Procedural Rules of Public 
services commission and Financial Regulations) ;
 (iv) case study relating to Public administration II 
(Relevant to the evaluation of creative, analytical and 
communication skills). 
Date of examination.– This examination will be held in 
april, 2016 only in colombo. The secretary reserves the right 
to postpone or cancel this examination subject to instructions of 
Public service commission. 
Interview.– General and structured interview will be held for 
the candidates who have appeared for all the papers of the written 
examination and secured a sufficiently high aggregate of marks 
as determined by the Public service commission. The date of the 
interviews shall be determined by secretary. 
3. Number of persons to be appointed is 28. at the instances 
where there are candidates, who have secured equal marks for 
the final vacancy or final few vacancies, above the number of 
vacancies, the decision of filling such vacancies shall be taken by 
the Public service commission as per section 80 of Procedural 
Rules. The effective date of the appointment shall be determined 
on the order of the Public service commission. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
120
4. Service Conditions :
 4.1 a selected candidate shall be appointed to class III of 
sri Lanka administrative service subject to general 
conditions governing the appointments in the Pubilc 
service and on the terms and conditions set out in the 
Minute of sri Lanka administrative service published 
in the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka No. 1842/2 dated 
23.12.2013 and to any amendments made or to be 
made to the minute hereafter, Financial Regulations 
in the Establishments code and Procedural Rules of 
Public service commission published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary of the democratic socialist Republic of 
sri Lanka No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
 4.2 This post is permanent and pensionable. shall 
contribute to the Widows' and orphans' Pension 
scheme/Widowers' and orphans' Pension scheme. 
 4.3 appointment is subject to an acting Period of one 
year. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed 
within 03 years from the date of recruitment to Grade 
III of sri Lanka administrative service as mentioned 
in the service minute. 
 4.4 Prescribed official language proficiency shall be 
obtained within 05 years of joining the service as 
per Public administration circular No. 01/2014 and 
consequent circulars. 
 4.5 Public service commission reserves the power to 
cancel the appointment of any candidate who fails to 
assume duties of the appointed post on due date and/
or rejects or avoids serving in an area where he/she is 
appointed. 
 
5. Monthly Salary Scale.– s. L. 1-2006 salary segment of 
Public administration circular 06/2006 is applied to this service 
and the salary scale entitled to the said salary segment is as 
follows : 
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 - 8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Monthly). 
6. eligibility for Recruitment :–
 (a) (i) shall be a citizen of sri Lanka, 
  (ii) shall be excellent of character, 
  (iii) shall be of an excellent moral character and physical 
fitness to serve at any part of the Island. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications and Experience :– 
 (i) shall have obtained a degree from a university or 
a degree awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grants commission ; 
  and
  Be an officer in the Public Service or in a Provincial 
Public service in a permanent and pensionable 
service/post receiving a salary under salary code 
No. MN2-2006 or a higher MN salary code number 
or under an sL-I salary code Number in Public 
administration circular No. 06/2006 who has 
completed a minimum active period of service of 
five (05) years in any service/post  ;
  or
 (ii) Be an officer in the public service or in a Provincial 
Public service in a permanent and pensionable 
service/post receiving a salary under salary cod No. 
MN2-2006 or a higher MN salary code number 
or under an sL-1 salary code Number in Public 
administration circular No. 06/2006 who has 
completed a minimum active period of service of ten 
(10) years in any service/post. 
Note : 
1. The effective date of the degree shall be a date on 
or before 31.12.2014. 
2. The total of continuous periods of service in 
Public service and/or Provincial Public service is 
considered when calculating the above mentioned 
period of service. 
 (c) Age and Other Qualifications to be Satisfied : 
 (i) shall be not more than the age limit of 53 years of 
age at 31.12.2014.
 (ii) shall have obtained permanent post in a service/post 
mentioned in above 6(b). 
 (iii) shall have not subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment in immediately preceding 05 years. 
 (iv) shall have earned due salary increments in 
immediately preceding 05 years. 
 (d) Restrictions for Qualifications : 
 (i) No candidate shall be permitted to sit for Limited 
competitive Examination more than two (02) 
occasions. (Number of sittings at the examinations 
to recruit Grade III of sri Lanka administrative 
service under the previous service minute are not 
considered).
 (ii) The qualifications required to apply for this 
examination shall have been satisfied by 31.12.2014 
in full. 
 (iii) No person who is ordained in any religious order 
shall be allowed to sit for this examination. 
7. examination Fees.–  The  fee  for  the  examination  will  be         
Rs. 1,000. This should be paid before the closing date of 
applications at any Post Office to be credited to Revenue head 
2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examination and the 
receipt obtained thus should be affixed in the relevant cage of the 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
121
application form. Money orders or stamps are nto accepted for 
examination fees. The fee is non-refundable and it shall not be 
paid back or transferred to pay any other examination fee under 
any circumstances. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the receipt. 
8. Method of Applications : 
 (a) The application should be in the form of the specimen 
appended to this notification and should be prepared on 
paper of A4 size using both sides. It is to be specifically 
noted that the application should be prepared in such 
a way that headings No. 1.0 to 2.12 appear on the 1st 
page, 3.0 to 4.(11) on the second page and the rest on 
the third page. an application prepared with computer/
typed applications can also be used for this purpose. 
The application should be filled legible by the candidate 
himself in his own handwriting and applications that do 
not comply with the specimen or that have not been 
completed properly will be rejected without notice. It is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with 
the candidate. It is the responsibility of the candidate 
to verify that the perfected application complies with 
the specimen given in the notification, as otherwise, the 
application may be rejected. 
 (b) The application should be prepared in the same language 
in which the candidate intends to sit the examination. 
It is required to indicate the name of the examination 
in English also in the applications prepared both in 
sinhala and Tamil media. 
 (c) applications duly perfected by candidates should be 
sent through the respective head of department to 
reach the following address before 15th February, 2016 
by Registered Post. The top left corner of the envelope 
containing the application should clearly bear the words 
"Limited competitive Examination for recruitment 
to sri Lanka administrative service - 2014(2016)". 
application received after this date will be rejected. 
  The commissioner General of Examinations, 
  organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, 
  department of Examinations, 
  P. o. Box - 1503, 
  colombo.
 
 (d) The post and the service station where the applicant 
is serving at the time of applying for the examination 
is relevant for all the activities with regard to the 
examination and the changes occur after sending the 
applications are not considered. 
 (e) applications that are not complete in every aspect will 
be rejected. complaints on applications getting lost or 
delayed will not be entertained. 
 (f) A notification will be published in newspapers by the 
department of Examinations as soon as the admission 
cards are issued to candidates. If the admission 
card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such 
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the 
Department of Examinations in the manner specified 
in the advertisement. The name of the examination, full 
name of the applicant, address and identity card number 
should be mentioned when informing the department of 
Examinations. In case of applicants outside colombo, 
it will be more effective to send a letter of request to 
the fax number mentioned in the said advertisement 
furnishing a fax number to which the admission card 
should be sent. It would be advisable to keep a copy of 
the application form and the receipt kept at applicant's 
possession, copy of the receipt of examination fees and 
the receipt of registering the letter.
9. Admission to examination : 
 (a) The commissioner-General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards to all persons who have 
correctly perfected their applications. any candidate 
who fails to produce his admission card will not be 
permitted to sit the examination. 
 (b) candidates must sit the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate 
should get his admission card attested in advance 
and surrender it to the supervisor of the hall on the 
first day he presents himself for the examination. 
a set of rules to be observed by all candidates is 
published at the begining of this Gazette. candidates 
shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the examination and they are liable to a 
punishment imposed by him for breach of these rules. 
Note.– Issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate 
has satisfied the qualifications to sit the 
examination. 
 10. Identity of Candidates.– a candidate will be required to 
prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, one of the 
following documents only, will be accepted :-
 (a) National Identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons ;
 (b) a  valid passport.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– If a candidate 
is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled 
at any state prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found 
that a candidate has purposely furnished false information or 
willfully suppressed any material fact, he or she will be liable for 
dismissal from the Public service. 
12. Any matter not provided for in this notification shall 
be dealt with as determined by the secretary subject to the 
instructions of the Public service commission. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
122
13. Scheme of examination and Language medium of 
examination : 
 (a) The examination will be held in the language media of 
sinhala, Tamil and English ;
 (b) a  candidate should sit the examination in the language 
medium in which he passed the qualifying examination/
interview for entry to public service or in an offiicial 
language ; 
Note :
 (i) a  candidate should sit for all the papers of the 
examination in one and the same language. 
 (ii) candidates will not be permitted to change the 
language medium indicated in the application 
form. 
14. Method of Recruitment :
 14.1 Written examination : 
  a  written examination consisting of following 
subjects shall be conducted. The subjects and the 
minimum marks to be obtained from each subject are 
as follows :
 Subject Marks Minimum 
   pass marks
 1 General Intelligence 100 50
 2 social, Economic and Political  100 50
  Background in sri Lanka and 
  Global Trends 
 3 case study relating to Public  100 50
  administration I (Relevant to 
  Establishments code, Procedural 
  rules of Public service
  commission and Financial 
  Regulations)
 4 case study relating to Public 100 50
  administration II (Relevant to 
  the evaluation of creative, 
  analytical and communication 
  skills)
candidates shall sit for all question papers. 
 14.2 General and Structured Interviews : 
 (i) The interview consists of two parts i. e. General 
interview and structured interviews. 
 (a) General Interview : 
 (i) The general interview shall be conducted 
to ascertain whether the qualifications 
for recruitment stipulated in para 06 
above have been fulfilled and whether the 
applicants conform to the restrictions on 
eligibility.  
 (ii) The panel of the general interview board 
shall be appointed by the Public service 
commission. 
 (b) Structured Interview : 
 (i) The structured interview shall be held 
in line with the following procedure to 
measure the managerial skills, leadership 
qualities, communication skills and 
personality of candidates. The maximum 
marks that can be obtained at this 
interview is twenty five (25). 
   Maximum 
  Subject Area Marks
 01 Managerial skills 10
 02 Leadership Qualities 05
 03 communication skills 05
 04 Personality 05
            Total 25
 (ii) out of the candidates who have scored a 
minimum of fifty (50%) marks or above 
in each subject, those who score the 
highest marks in the aggregate for all 
the subjects will qualify to appear for the 
general interview. out of the candidates 
qualified, only a number equivalent to 
the total number of those expected to 
be recruited according to the vacancies 
expected to be filled and a 25% of the 
number of vacancies expected will be 
called for the general interview. If the 
number of quali fied applicants does not 
amount to the number mentioned above, 
only such numbers of candidates who are 
so qualified will be called for the general 
interview. 
 (iii) The general interview shall be held prior 
to the structured interview to examine 
quailfications and no marks shall be 
allocated there. Applicants confirmed 
to have fulfilled  all qualifications for 
recruitment at the general interview shall 
qualify to be called for the structured 
interview. Even if a certain number 
of candidates are not qualified to be 
called for the structured interview, other   

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
123
candidates shall not be called again for 
the general interview in place of those 
who are not so qualified. 
 (iv) appointments sahll be made to Grade 
three (III) according to merits beginning 
from candidates who have scored highest 
marks as per the total marks obtained at 
the written examination and the structured 
interview by the number of candidates 
expected to be appointed according to the 
existing vacancies. 
Note.– opportunity given to a candidate for 
appearing for the interview does not 
necessarily mean that the candidate has 
possessed qualifications to be awarded an 
appointment. 
 14.3 The results shall be communicated to the applicants 
personally by the commissioner General of 
Examinations by post or by the website : www.
results.exams.gov.lk
15. Syllabus of the Written examination : 
 (01) General Intelligence.– It is expected to assess the 
level of intelligence of the candidate in analytical 
skills, logical comprehension, interpretative ability, 
ability in application to other situations and arriving 
at conclusions, in response to problems presented 
in relation to numerical, lingual and figurative 
structure and inter-relations. 
  (duration 1 1/2 hours - 100 marks. This paper shall 
consist of Multiple choice Questions. all questions 
shall be answered)
 (02) social, Economic, Political background of sri 
Lanka and global trends :
  It is expected to assess the subject knowledge of the 
candidate on social, economical, political, cultural, 
scientific and technological conditions in Sri Lanka 
and in the globe or his ability to think creatively, 
analytically and critically and ability to decide 
priority and strategic projection in response to a 
situation presented to the candidate. 
  (duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This paper shall 
consist of Multiple choice Questions, Questions for 
short answers, structured Essays and Essays). 
 (03) case study relating to Public administration I 
(Relating to Establishments code, Procedural rules 
of the Public service commission and Financial 
Regulations) 
  It is expected to test the candidate's creative 
thinking power and problem solving ability in terms 
of the practice of government service as per the 
Establishments code and the Financial Regulations 
by presenting to him a case/cases built up connecting 
one or several problems that may arise in different 
environments in the public service. 
  (duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This paper shall 
consist of Multiple choice Questions. Questions for 
short answers. structured Essays and Essays. all 
questions shall be answered). 
 (04) case study relating to Public administration II 
(Relevant to assessment of creative, analytical and 
communication skills) :
  It is expected to test the candidate's ability for 
reasoning and imagination in relation to the 
analyzing, collating and presenting of veiws and 
information on a topic/theme selected by the 
candidate from a given set of topics/themes and the 
ability to comprehened a complex passage, a piece 
of writing or a memorandum and express the salient 
ideas thereof concisely, clearly and accurately in the 
candidate's own words.  
  (duration 3 hours - 100 marks. all questions shall 
be answered). 
on the order of Public service commission, 
  
J. DaDallage,
  secretary,
  Ministry of Public administration and 
  Management.
Ministry of Public administration and Management, 
Independence square, 
colombo 07,
31st december, 2015.
Specimen Application  form 
(For office use only)    
LIMITEd coMPETITIVE  ExaMINaTIoN  FoR  
REcRuITMENT To GRadE  III  oF sRI  LaNKa 
adMINIsTRaTIVE sERVIcE – 2014(2016)
 1.0 Medium :    
 Medium of Examination 
   
 sinhala  -  2
 Tamil    -  3  
 English  -  4
 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 The application should be filled in the medium of language 
in which the candidate intends to sit the examination.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
124
2.0 Personal Information : 
  2.1 Name in full (In English Block capitals) :–––––––––. 
   eg :– hERaTh MudIyaNsELaGE saMaN   
  KuMaRa GuNa WaRdhaNa
  2.2 Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
   (In English block capitals) 
   eg :– GuNaWaRdhaNa, h. M. s. K.
  2.3 Name in full (In sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
  2.4 Official Address in English block capitals :––––––––.
   (admission card will be sent to this address) 
  2.5 Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
   
  2.6 Private address (In sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
  2.7 sex : 
   Male - 0
   Female   - 1    
   (Indicate relevant number in the cage)
  2.8 National Identity card No. : 
  2.9 Marital status :
   single  - 1
   Married  - 2   
   (Indicate relevant number in the cage)
  2.10 Race : 
   (sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2,  
   Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, other - 5)   
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
  2.11 date of Birth : 
   y ear : Month : date :
  2.12 Telephone No. : 
3.0 Indicate the language medium in which you passed the 
qualifying examination/Interview for entry to the service/
grade as at 31.12.2014 :–––––––––.
4.0 (i) Whether all the qualification mentioned in para 6 of the 
Gazette Notification has been fulfilled ? :–––––––––.
 (a) age as at 31.12.2014 :––––––––––.
 (b) Educational qualification and experience ,
  State whether the candidate become qualified under 
para 06(b) I or (b) II as per the para 06 (b) of the  
Gazette Notification :––––––––.
  date of Graduation :––––––––.
  university/Institute :–––––––––.
  Registrati on Number :–––––––––.
  Internal/External :–––––––––.
  degree :–––––––––.
  subjects :–––––––––.
  class :–––––––––.
  upper/Lower :–––––––––.
  Effective date of the degree :–––––––––.
  Language Medium in which the candidate sit for the 
examination :–––––––––.
 (c) Services/Grades that gives qualifications to the 
candidature [class, Grade or segment (if any) 
should be indicated]
  Present Post :–––––––––.
  Whether the said post belongs to Public service or 
Provincial Public Service ? :–––––––––.
  Grade :–––––––––.
  class/segment :–––––––––.
  date of appointment to the post :–––––––––.
  Date of confirmation in the said post :–––––––––.
  salary code and salary scale :–––––––––.
 If several services are applicable for you to be qualified 
for applying for this post, particulars of said 
periods of (active and satisfactory) service shall be 
mentioned in the following table : 
 Name of Service/ Salary Code as per the P . A.  Date of
 Grade Circular applicable  Appointment
  Ex : MN 2-2006(A)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
 (ii) Total period of active and satisfactory service as at 
31.12.2014, on which the qualifications in the services/
grades of a approved post mentioned in para (6) of the 
Gazette Notification shall be fulfilled : 
5.0 Paste the cash receipt properly.
Paste the cash receipt (original) firmly, from the edge
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
6.0 Certificate of the Candidate : 
 I declare that during the five years preceding 31.12.2014, I 
have earned all increments (excluding those conditional to 
passing service or departmental examinations), possessed 
active and satisfactory service period as at 31.12.2014, as 
per para 06(b) of the Gazette Notification and that I have 
not been subject to any form of disciplinary punishment 
(Excluding warning). Further, I declare that I shall be 
bound by the decisions taken by the commissioner General 
of Examinations, on conducting and issuing results of this 
examination. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
125
 I declare that I am eligible to sit this Limited competitive 
Examination as per all rules and regulations mentioned in the 
Gazette and that to the best of my knoweldge, the information 
given in this is true and that I have affixed the receipt No. ......... 
dated .............. being payment of the examination fees. I also 
agree to be bound by the rules and regulations of this examination 
and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior 
or during or after the examination if it is found that I am ineligible 
according to the minute of this examination. Further, I declare 
that I shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations on conducting of this 
examination. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of the candidate. 
date :–––––––––.
7.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to the 
personal file) : 
 I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is 
submitting this appilcation is serving in a post of ................ 
in Ministry/department of ........................ under the central 
Government/Provincial council of ............................ and has 
earned all salary increments during the period of 5 years prior 
to 31.12.2014 (Excluding those conditional to passing service 
or departmental examinations), has not been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishment (Except warnings) during the said 
period, possessed active and satisfactory service period of 
............. (five/ten) years, as per para 06 (b) of the Gazette 
Notification, he/she is eligible to sit for this examination as 
per regulations stipulated in the relevatn Gazette Notification, 
he/she has paid the prescribed examination fees and affixed 
the receipt herein and signed this application in my presence. 
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of the head of 
  Department/Authorized Officer.
Name :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––.
date :–––––––––.
(Place Official Frank)
01-618
–––––––––––––––––––
OPEN  COmPETITIvE  ExAmINATION  fOR  
RECRuITmENT  TO  GRADE  III  Of ThE  SRI  LANkA  
ADmINISTRATIvE  SERvICE – 2014(2016)
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified citizens of 
sri Lanka for the open competitive Examination for recruitment 
to the posts in Grade III of sri Lanka administrative service. 
1. In this notice “secretary” shall mean the “secretary to 
the Ministry in-charge of the subject of Public administration” 
“service” shall mean the “sri Lanka administrative service” at 
the instances not specified in other way. 
2. The appointments through this examination shall be made 
to Grade III of sri Lanka administrative service. 
(a) The closing date for applications will be 15.02.2016.
Note : The complains made on the loss or delay of 
applications and other connected letters in the post will 
not be considered. The damages caused due to delay 
in the part of applicant until the closing date shall be 
borne by the applicant.
Written examination.– The Examination shall consist of the 
following five (05) question papers :–
 (i) General Intelligence 
 (ii) social, Economic, Political background and trends in 
sri Lanka
 (iii) Global Trends
 (iv) aptitude for Management 
 (v) creative, analytical and communication skills. 
Date of examination.– This examination will be held in 
colombo in april, 2016. The secretary reserves the right to 
postpone or cancel this examination subject to the instructions 
given by the Public service commission. 
Interview.– a general and structured interview shall be 
held for the candidates who sat for all the papers in the written 
examination and obtained a higher aggregate of marks as 
determined by the Public Service Commission as sufficient. The 
date of the interview shall be determined by the secretary as per 
the instructions of the Public service commission. 
3. Number of persons to be appointed is 104. at the instances 
where there are candidates, who have secured equal marks for 
the final vacancy or final few vacancies, above the number of 
vacancies, the decision of filling such vacancies shall be taken by 
the Public service commission as per section 80 of Procedural 
Rules. The effective date of the appointment shall be determined 
on the order of the Public services commission. 
4. Conditions of Service :
 4.1 a selected candidate shall be appointed to Grade III 
of the service on the general conditions governing 
appointments in the Pubilc service and on the terms 
and conditions set out in the Minute of sri Lanka 
administrative service. (published in the Gazette 
extraordinary of the democratic socialist Republic 
of sri Lanka No. 1842/2 of 23.12.2013) and subject 
to any amendments made or to be made hereafter to 
the Minute, provisions of the Establishments code 
and Financial Regulations and Procedural Rules of 
Public service commission published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1,589/30 of 20.02.2009.
 4.2 This post is permanent.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
126
 4.3 appointment is subject to 3 years probation Period. 
First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed 
within 03 years from the date of recruitment to Grade 
III of sri Lanka administrative service as mentioned 
in the service minute. 
 4.4 Prescribed official language proficiency shall be 
obtained within 05 years of joining the service as 
per Public administratio n circular 01/2014 and 
consequent circulars. 
 4.5 Public service commission reserves the power to 
cancel the appointment of any candidate who fails to 
assume duties of the appointed post on due date and/
or rejects or avoids serving in an area where he/she is 
appointed. 
 
5. Monthly Salary Scale.– s. L. 1-2006 salary segment of 
Public administration circular 06/2006 is applied to this service 
and the salary scale entitled to the said salary segment is as 
follows : 
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 - 8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Monthly). 
6. Qualifications for Recruitment :–
 (a) (i) shall be a citizen of sri Lanka, 
  (ii) shall have a excellent moral character, 
  (iii) Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any 
part of the Island. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications .– shall have possessed a 
degree from a university recognized by the university 
Grant commission or from an institution recognized by 
the university Grants commission as an institution for 
awarding degrees. 
Note.– Effective date of the degree shall be a date on or 
before the application closing date. 
 (c) Age.– shall not be less than twenty two (22) years 
of age and not have reached 28 years of age as at the 
closing date of the application. (accordingly candidates 
who have the date of birth on or after 15.02.1988 and 
on or before 15.02.1994 are eligible to apply for the 
examination)
 (d) Restrictions regarding Qualifications : 
 (i) No person is allowed to sit the open competitive 
examination for more than two (2) sittings. (Number 
of sittings at the examinations to recruit Grade III of 
sri Lanka administrative service under previous 
service minutes will not be considered). 
 (ii) Requisite qualifications for this examination shall 
have been completed in every aspect by on or before 
the application closing date. 
 (iii) No person ordained in any religious sect shall 
be permitted to apply or sit for this competitive 
examination. 
7. examination Fee.– The examination fee is Rs. 1,000. 
It should be paid before the closing date of applications at 
any post office to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of 
commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained 
from should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application 
form. The fee is non-refundable and it shall not be paid back 
or transferred to pay any other examination fee, under any 
circumstances. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt. Money orders or stamps are not accepted for examination 
fees. 
8. Method of Application : 
 (a) The application should be in the form of the specimen 
appended to this notification and should be prepared 
by the candidate himself on paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" 
(a4) using both sides. It should be specially noted that 
the application forms should be prepared that cages 
1.0 to 2.12 appear on the first side, of the paper and 
cages 3.0 to 6.0 appear on the other side of the paper. 
applications that do not comply with the specimen and 
that are not completed in every aspect, shall be rejected 
without notice. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the application with candidate.) It is the responsibility 
of the candidate to make sure that the application form 
perfected by him/her complies with the specimen given 
in the examination notice as otherwise the application 
may be rejected. 
 (b) The application should be in the language medium in 
which the candidate intends to sit the examination. 
 (c) The completed application form for the examination 
should be sent by registered post to reach the 
"commissioner-General of Examinations organization 
and Foreign Examination Branch, department of 
Examinations - sri Lanka, P. o. Box, 1503, colombo" 
on or before 15.02.2016. The words “open competitive 
Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the sri 
Lanka administrative service – 2014(2016)” should 
be clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of the 
envelope enclosing the application. any application 
received after the closing date will not be accepted. 
It is essential to mention the name of examination in 
English Language as well, in applications prepared in 
both sinhala and Tamil mediums. 
 (d) candidate’s signature in the application form should 
have been attested by a Principal of a Government 
school, a justice of Peace, commissioner of oaths, 
Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
127
in the Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted post 
in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent 
post in Public service whose annual initial salary is 
more than Rs. 240,360.
 (e) any application, which is not complete in every aspect, 
is liable to be rejected. No complaint that an application 
has been lost or delayed in post will be considered. 
 (f) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
a notice will be published in the newspapers by the 
department of Examinations as soon as admission 
cards are issued to applicants. If the admission 
card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such 
an advertisement, steps shall be taken to notify the 
Department of Examinations in the manner specified 
in the advertisement. When informing, the name of the 
examination applied for, full name, address and the NIc 
number of the candidate shall be indicated. It would be 
advisable for candidates outside colombo to fax a letter 
of request along with a fax number of the candidate 
to the department of Examinations through the fax 
number mentioning the notification for sending a copy 
of the admission. Further, it would be advisable to keep 
a copy of the application, copy of the receipt relevant 
to payment of examination fee and the receipt of 
registration of the application to prove any information 
requested by the department of Examinations. 
9. Admission to the examination : 
 (a) The commissioner-General of Examinations shall 
issue admission cards to all persons who have 
correctly perfected their application. a candidate who 
fails to produce any his admission card will not be 
permitted to sit the examination. 
 (b) a  candidates must sit the examination according to 
the index number at the examination hall assigned 
to him. Every candidate must get his admission card 
attested in advance and surrender it to the supervisor 
of the hall on the first day he presents himself for 
the examination. a set of rules to be observed by 
all candidates is published at the begining in this 
Gazette. candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations on conducting the examination and 
they are liable to a punishment imposed by him for 
breach of these rules. 
Note.– The issuance of an admission card to a 
candidate does not mean that he or she has 
fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit the 
examination. 
 10. Identity of Candidates.– a candidate will be required to 
prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the 
following documents shall be accepted :-
 (a) National Identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons ;
 (b) a  valid passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If a candidate is 
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at 
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found 
that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that 
they are false, or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, 
he shall be liable for dismissal from the Public service. 
12. any matter not provided for in these regulations will 
be dealt with as determined by the secretary subject to the 
instructions given by the Public service commission. 
13. Scheme of examination and Medium of examination : 
 (a) The examination will be held in sinhala, Tamil and 
English ;
 (b) a  candidate shall sit the examination in the language in 
which he passed the qualifying degree examination or 
in an offiicial language ; 
 (c) a candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying 
degree examination in two or more languages, shall sit 
the examination in the language in which he passed 
the majority of subjects at such examination or in an 
official language ; 
 (d) a  candidate with a special degree who has passed the 
principal subject in one language and the subsidiary 
subject in another language shall sit the examination in 
the language in which he passed the principal subject or 
in an official language. 
Note :
 (i) The term “qualifying degree” in (b) and (c) above 
refers to the degree qualifications referred to in 
Paragraph 6 (b).
 (ii) a  candidat e must sit all the papers of the 
examination in one and the same language. 
 (iii) a  candidate will not be permitted to change the 
language medium of the examination, indicated 
in the application. 
14. Method of Recruitment :
 14.1 Written examination : 
  A written examination of five (05) question papers 
including the following subjects shall be held. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
128
subjects and the minimum marks that shall be 
obtained for each subject are as follows :–
 Subject Marks Minimum marks
   that shall be 
   obtained for a
   pass
 1 General Intelligence 100  50
 2 social, Economic, Political  
  background and trends in 100  50
  sri Lanka
 3 Global Trends 100  50
 4 aptitude for Management 100  50
 5 creative, analytical and  
  communication skills 100  50
candidates should sit all the question papers. 
 14.2 General and structured interview : 
 (i) Interview shall consist of two parts namely ; 
general interview and structured interview. 
 (a) General interview : 
 (i) The general interview shall held to 
verify whether the candidate has satisfied 
qualifications for recruitment mentioned 
in No. 06 above and whether such 
qualifications fall within the prescriptions 
made in the same. 
 (ii) The general interview board is appointed 
by the Public service commission. 
 (b) Structured Interview : 
 (i) a structured interview shall be conducted 
by an interview board appointed by the 
Public service commission to measure the 
management skills, leadership qualities, 
communication skills and personality of 
the candidates. The methodology used 
in this regard shall be prepared by the 
secretary of Public administration on 
the concurrence of the commission. The 
maximum marks that can be obtained at 
the interview is twenty five (25). 
  Subject Area Maximum 
   Marks
 01 Management skills 10
 02 Leadership Qualities 05
 03 communications skills 05
 04 Personality 05
            Total 25
 (ii) out of the candidates who have scored a 
minimum of fifty (50%) marks or above 
in each subject, those who score the 
highest marks in the aggregate for all 
the subjects will qualify to appear for the 
general interview. out of the candidates 
qualified, only a number equivalent to 
the total number of those expected to 
be recruited according to the vacancies 
expected to be filled and a 25% of the 
number of vacancies expected will be 
called for the general interview. If the 
number of qualified applicants does not 
amount to the number mentioned above, 
only such numbers of candidates who are 
so qualified will be called for the general 
interview. 
 (iii) General interview shall be conducted 
before the structured interview for 
verification of qualification and marks 
shall not be allocated at the general 
interview. candidates who are proved 
to have possessed all the qualifications 
for recruitment at the general interview 
shall become eligible for calling for 
structured interview. If a certain number 
of candidates called for general interview 
are not qualified for calling for structured 
interview, no other candidates shall be 
called for the general interview in place 
of disqualified candidates. 
 (iv) appointment shall be made to Grade 
three (III) according to merits beginning 
from candidates who have scored highest 
marks as per the total marks obtained at 
the written examination and the structured 
interview by the number of candidates 
expected to be appointed according to the 
existing vacancies. 
N. B.– opportunity given to a candidate for 
appearing for the interview does not 
necessarily mean that the candidate has 
possessed qualifications to be awarded an 
appointment. 
 14.3 The results shall be communicated to the applicants 
personally by the commissioner General of 
Examinations by post or by the web site ww.results.
exams.gov.lk
15. Syllabus of the written examination : 
 (01) General Intelligence.– It is expected to assess the 
capacity of the candidate in analytical skills, logical 
comprehension, interpretative ability, ability in 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
129
application to other situations and arriving and 
conclusions in response to problems presented to 
the candidate in relation to numberical, lingual and 
figurative structures and inter-relations. 
  (duration 1 1/2 hours - 100 marks. This question 
paper shall consist of multiple choice questions 
candidates are required to answer all questions)
 (02) social, Economic, Political background and trends 
in sri Lanka :
  It is expected to test the candidate's knowledge of 
the social, economic, political, cultural, scientific 
and technological conditions in sri Lanka or his 
ability to think creatively analytically and critically 
and the ability to decide priority and strategic 
projection in response to situation presented to him. 
  (duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This question paper 
shall consist of structured essay type, essay type, 
multiple choice questions and questions for short 
answers. candidates are required to answer all 
questions). 
 (03) Global trends :
  It is expected to test the candidate's knowledge of 
the global economy, political, cultural, scientific and 
technological technological conditions or his ability 
to think creatively analytically and critically and the 
ability to decide priority and strategic projection in 
response to situation presented to him. 
  (duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This question paper 
shall consist of structured essay type, essay type, 
multiple choice questions and questions for short 
answers. candidates are required to answer all 
questions). 
 (04) Managerial Aptitude :
  It is expected to test the candidate's skills in 
identifying problems and their reasons, decisions 
making, maintaining interpersonal relationships 
and communicative ability, fourmulation of self 
disciplinary policies and strategies and innate 
wisdom etc. in response to situation presented to 
him. 
  (duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This question paper 
shall consist of structured essay type, essay type, 
multiple choice questions and questions for short 
answers. candidates are required to answer all 
questions). 
 (05) Creative, Analytical and Communicative Skills : 
  It is expected to test the candidate's ability for 
reasoning and imagination in relation to the 
analyzing, collating and presenting of information 
on a topic/themes selected by the candidate from 
a given set of topics/themes and the ability to 
comprehend a complex passage, a piece of writing 
or a memorandum and express the salient ideas 
thereof concisely, clearly and accurately in the 
candidate's own words.
  (duration 3 hours - 100 marks, candidates are 
required to answer all questions). 
on the order of Public service commission, 
  
J. DaDallage,
  secretary,
  Ministry of Public administration and 
  Management.
Ministry of Public administration and Management, 
Independence square, 
colombo 07,
31st december, 2015.
Specimen form of Application 
(For office use only)    
oPEN coMPETITIVE  ExaMINaTIoN  FoR  
REcRuITMENT To GRadE III oF ThE  sRI  LaNKa 
adMINIsTRaTIVE sERVIcE – 2014 (2016)
1.0 Medium :    
 Language medium of examination :  
  
 sinhala  -  2
 Tamil   -  3  
 English  -  4
 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)  
 
2.0 Personal Information : 
  2.1 Name with initials at the end :––––––––––. 
   (In English Block capitals)
    eg :– GuNa WaRdhaNa, M. G. B. s. K.
  2.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
   (In English Block capitals) 
  2.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
   (In sinhala/Tamil)
  2.4 Permanent address :––––––––––.
   (In English Block capitals) 
   (admission card will be posted to this address)    
  2.5 Permanent address :––––––––––.
   (In sinhala/Tamil)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
130
  2.6 sex : 
   (Male  -  0,  Female  - 1)   
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.7 civil status :
   (unmarried  - 1,  Married  - 2)   
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.8 Ethnic group : 
   (sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2,  
   Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, other - 5)   
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.9 National Identity card No. : 
  2.10 date of Birth : 
   date : Month : y ear :
 2.11 Age as at 15.02.2016 which is the date of fulfilling 
qualification : 
   y ears :  Months :  days : 
  2.12 Telephone No. : 
3.0  (i) date of graduation :–––––––––.
  (ii) university/Institute :–––––––––.
  (iii) Registration Number :–––––––––.
  (iv) Internal/External :–––––––––.
  (v) degree :–––––––––.
  (vi) subjects :–––––––––.
  (vii) class :–––––––––.
  (viii) upper/Lower :–––––––––.
  (ix) Index Number :–––––––––.
  (x) Language medium of Examination :–––––––––.
4.0 Paste the cash receipt properly here.
(Paste on edge of the receipt here securely)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the candidate)
5.0 declaration of the candidate : 
 I, declare that information given is this form is true to the 
best of my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed the 
receipt No. .......... dated ................ being the payment of 
the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules 
governing the examination and any decision that may be 
taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the 
examination, if it is found that I am ineligible according to the 
regulations of this examination. Further, I agree to be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by commissioner-
General of Examinations as conducting of the exam. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––.
6.0 attestation of the applicant's signature : (Para 8(d) of the 
Gazette Notification) : 
 I hereby certify that ....................... (Full name) who submits 
this application is known to me personally, that he/she has paid 
the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt 
herein. he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on 
....................
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature. 
date :–––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer attesting the signature :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––.
address :–––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
7.0 Certificate of the head of the department (only for the 
applicants in Public service/Provincial Public service/
statutory institution) : 
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. 
who is submitting this application is serving in this department 
as ......................... and his/her application is forwarded with my 
recommendation as per regulations stipulated in this Gazette 
notification. He/she could be released from his/her present post, 
if selected for the position. 
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of head of department/
  Authorized Officers. 
Name :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––.
date :–––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
01-619
–––––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION
Limited Competitive Examination for Promotion of 
the Officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological 
Service to Special Grade – year 2014
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the minute of 
sri Lanka Technological service, published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1930/12 dated 01.09.2015, the limited 
competitive examination for promotion of officers in Grade I of 
sri Lanka Technological service to special Grade will be held by 
the commissioner General of Examinations, in colombo, in the 
month of April, 2016. Officers who have satisfied the following 
qualifications as at 31.12.2014 shall apply for this examination. 
 (i) Officers who have completed at least an active and 
satisfactory service of five (05) years in Grade I of 
supervisory Management assistant - Technological 
service (MN-03-2006a) category of sri Lanka 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
131
Technological Service and have earned the five (5) 
salary increments. 
 (ii) Officers who have completed a satisfactory service 
of five (05) years immediately preceding the date of 
promotion. 
02. Following salary scale shall be applicable to the officers 
in special class. (MN-7-2006-a  step 4) Rs. 21,125 -8x 365 
-18x500 - Rs. 33,045)
03. Promotion from Grade I to special Grade of sri Lanka 
Technological service shall be in the following manner : 
 (i) Vacancies in each post in special Grade of sri Lanka 
Technological service existing at each department 
and Ministry from 03.07.2013 to 31.12.2013 and from 
01.01.2014 to 31.12.2014 shall be filled on the results 
of this examination. 
 (ii) The  results of the limited competitive examination 
for recruitment to the special Grade shall strictly 
be applicable to fill the vacancies existing from 
03.07.2013 to 31.12.2013 and from 01.01.2014 to 
31.12.2014. 
 (iii) at the instances where the approved number of posts 
is 04 or above, the percentage of recruitment under 
limited competitive examination shall be 25% and the 
percentage of recruitment under service experience 
and merit shall be 75%. At the instances where the 
approved number of posts is 3, the percentage of 
recruitment under the above limited competitive 
examination shall be 33.33% and the percentage of 
recruitment under service experience and merit shall 
be 66.66%.
 (iv) Filling of vacancies shall be made strictly on the 
results of the limited competitive examination at the 
instances where the aprpoved number of posts in 
special Grade is over 03. 
 (v) Promotion to special Grade shall be made by the Public 
service commission to be effective from the date of 
examination on the order of merit of the examination 
and the number of vacancies, after verifying by 
an interview board appointed by Public service 
Commission that the other relevant qualifications 
have also been fulfilled by those who have passed 
on the results of the limited competitive examination 
for promotion to special Grade conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of 
the secretary, Ministry of Public administration and 
Management. 
 (vi) Officers, out of the applicants who have satisfied the 
basic qualifications as at the date on which each post 
has fallen vacant, shall be considered for the relevant 
promotion as per order of merit at the time of filling 
the vacancies. 
04. (i) This examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and 
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations 
prescribed by him in respect of conducting the 
examination and issuance of results. 
 (ii) The candidates shall be subjected to the punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations. if such rules are violated by them. 
Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately 
at the begining of this Gazette notification. 
05. The specimen application for admission to this examination 
is published at the end of this notification. Candidates are 
required to prepare their applications in accordance with the 
specimen form and officers in the public service should forward 
their applications thorugh the respective head of department and 
officers in the provincial public service should forward their 
applications thorugh the secretary of Psc in the Provincial 
council where they serve, by registered post ot reach the 
commissioner General of Examinations, organizations and 
Foreign Examination Branch, department of Examinations, 
P. o. Box 1503, colombo before 15th of February 2016. The top 
left corner of the envelope containing the application should bear 
clearly the title of the examination. applications received after 
the closing date of applications will be rejected. 
06. Identity Cards.– candidates should prove their identity at 
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each 
subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents 
should be surrendered to the supervisor of the examinatoin hall :
 (a) The National Identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons, 
 (b) a valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish any 
of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the discretion 
of commissioner General of Examinations. 
07. Application : 
 (i) applications should be prepared in a paper a4 in size 
using both sides. No. 01 to 05 should appear on the 
first page. Applications could be typed but they should 
be completed correctly and legibly by the candidate in 
his/her own handwriting and in the language medium 
in which the candidate sit this examination. 
  When preparing the application, the title of the 
examination should be written in English in addition 
to sinhala on sinhala applications and Tamil on Tamil 
applications. 
  applications that do not comply with the specimen 
and have not been duly perfected shall be rejected 
without notice. Therefore, the candidates themselves 
should make sure that the perfected applications are 
in comformity with the specimen form. It is advisable 
to keep a photo copy of the application form with the 
candidate. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
132
 (ii) candidates are not allowed to change the language 
medium selected by them in their applications. 
If applications are received in all three language 
mediums, i. e. sinhala, Tamil and English, the 
examination will be held in those three language 
mediums. however, candidates should answer all the 
question papers in one and the same langauge selected 
by them. 
 (iii) candidates who appear for this examination for the 
first time are not required to pay any examination fee. 
however, if a subsequent sitting, an examination fee 
of Rs. 500 should be paid at any Post Office/Sub Post 
Office to be credited to Reveneu Head 2003-02-13 
of the commissioner General of Examinations. The 
receipt obtained thus from the district/divisional 
Secretariat should be affixed in the relevant cage of 
the application form. 
  It will not be allowed to transfer such fee for any other 
examination. 
08. The commissioner General of Examinations will issue 
admission cards to the candidates who have forwarded duly 
perfected applications along with the receipt if payment of 
examination fee on or before the closing date of examination 
mentioned in the notification is applicable, medium of 
examination, public service to which the applicant belongs, 
signature of the applicant and the attestation of the signature, 
recommendation and certification of the Head of the Department, 
on the presumption that only those who possess the qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. Officers 
sitting for the examination must get his signature on the 
admission card attested in advance and produce to the supervisor 
of the examination center. It will not be allowed to sit for the 
examination without such admission card. Further, issuance of an 
admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate is eligible to sit for the examination. 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates, 
department of Examinations will publish a paper notice 
announcing the same. If the admission card is not received at 
least five days before the date of examination mentined in the 
notification, it should be inquired from the Organizations and 
Foreign Examinations Branch, department of Examinations. The 
applicant should correctly mention the name of the examination 
applied for, full name of the applicant, national identity card 
number and address when making such inquiry. In case of 
applicants outside colombo, it would be advisable to make the 
request sending a letter of request stating the same to the fax 
number mentioned in the notification along with the fax number 
to which a copy of the admission card can be sent promptly. It 
would be useful to have the following documents in hand at the 
time of calling the department of Examinations, i. e. a photocopy 
of the application form, receipt of payment of examination fees 
(if applicable) and receipt of registration. 
09. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have 
failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in Para (08) above will 
not be considered. 
10. Issue of the results of the examination. – actions shall be 
taken to issue the results of this examination to the secretary of 
the Public service commission. 
11. Scheme of examination : 
 (i) Examination for promotion of officers in Class I to 
special class will consist of 2 question papers. 
  (1) aptitude Test - duration 1 hours - 100 marks
  (2) Management - duration 3 hours - 100 marks
Candidates shall be required to obtain a minimum of 40% of 
the marks for each question paper to be qualified. 
Syllabus of the first question paper shall be as follows :
all the questions should be answered. 
aptitude Test - subject No. (1)
A test designed to assess as to whether the officer has acquired 
knowledge, skills and attitudes required for the fulfillment of tasks 
entrusted to him/her in an efficiency beyond the performance at 
average level and whether the officer displays competency in the 
application of the above. 
all the questions in this question paper shall be answered. 
syllabus of the second question paper will be as follows : 
Management - subject No. (2)
 (i) Principles of Management
 (ii) Management functions
  Planning
  decision making
  Process of decision making
  organization
  Staffing
  directing
  Motivation process
  Leadership
  control
  Process of controlling 
 (iii) Participatory Management
 (iv) Management Environment 
 (v) case study
This is a structured essay type question paper. all the questions 
should be answered. 
12. candidates are bound by the rules and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examination in conducting this 
examination and issuing the results. candidates are liable to be 
subjected to a punishment imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examination for breach of these rules. 
13. The decision of Public service commission will be the 
final in respect of any matter not provided for in this notification. 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
133
14. In case of an inconsistency among sinhala, Tamil and 
English texts. The sinhala text shall prevail. 
on the order of the Public service commission, 
  J. DaDallage,
  secretary,
  Ministry of Public administration and 
  Management.
Ministry of Public administration and Management, 
Independence square, 
colombo 07,
30th december, 2015.
Specimen form of Application 
(For office use only) 
LIMITEd coMPETITIVE ExaMINaTIoN FoR 
PRoMoTIoN oF ThE oFFIcERs IN GRadE I oF 
sRI LaNKa TEchNoLoGIcaL sERVIcE To sPEcIaL 
GRadE - yEaR 2014  
01.  (a)  Medium in which the officer appears for the examination:
   (sinhala - 2/Tamill - 3/English - 4)
   (Write in the relevant cage)
   Inidcate whether you belong to Provincial Public 
service or which Public service
    (Indicate the number relevant to the  
 public service to which you belong)
   (Western Provincial Public service - 01/central 
Provincial Public service - 02/southern Provincial 
Public service -03/Northern Provincial Public service - 
04/Eastern Provincial Public service - 05/North Western 
Provincial Public service - 06/North central Provincial 
Public service - 07/uva Provincial Public service - 08/
sabaragamuwa Provincial Public service - 09/central 
Government service - 10)
   
  (b)  Name in full (in English block capital letters) :–––––––.
   (eg. : hERa Th  MudIyaNsEaLGE  saMaN  
    KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdhaNa) 
  (c) Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
   (in English block capital letters)
   (eg. : GuNa WaRdhaNa  h. M. s. K.) 
  (d) Name in full (in sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
  (e) Official address (Admissions will be posted to this 
address) :
   (In English) :––––––––––.
   (In sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
  (f) sex :
   (Male - 0  Female - 1)
   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  (g) National Identity card No. :
  (h) Telephone No. :
02. department which you belong to :––––––––––.
03. designation :––––––––––.
04. Period of service as at 31.12.2014 : 
 y ears :  Months :  days :
05.  (i) date of Birth : 
  
   y ear :  Month :  date :
  (ii) age as at 31.12.2014 : 
   y ears :  Months :  days :
Paste the receipt of the examination fee of Rs. 500 firmly,
if not the first sitting. 
(It is advisable to keep a photocopy) 
Receipt number of the examination fee :––––––––––.
Office paid :––––––––––.
amount paid :––––––––––.
I, declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and 
I am entited to sit for the examination in the language medium 
mentioned above. Furthermore, I, hereby agree to be abided by 
the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations in conducting the examination and issuing the 
results. 
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of the candidate. 
date :––––––––––.
Note.– candidate should place his/her signature in the presence 
of the Head of the Department or an officer duly 
authorized to sign on his behalf or head of the Regional 
Office. 
Attestation of Candidate's Signature
I, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................... is 
presently employed in my office and is personally known to me and 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ....................... 
and he/she is exempted from payment of examination fee/has 
paid the examination fee and affixed the reelevant receipt. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of the attester.
  Official Seal.
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
134
Recommendation and Certification of the Head of the Department
  (i) Recommendation of the head of the department on the disciplinary inquiries that were carried on or are being carried on 
against the applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 01-05 above are correct that this candidate is eligible to sit for 
the examination, that he/she is eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned above and he/she is 
exempted from payment of examination fee/has paid the examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  signature and designation of head of department.
  Official Stamp. 
date :––––––––––.
Note.– A certified copy should be sent to the personal file of the candidate and the other copy should be sent to reach department of 
examinations of sri Lanka promptly.  
01–582
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of SOCIAL EmPOWERmENT AND WELfARE
Department of Divinaguma Development 
oPEN coMPETITIVE ExaMINaTIoN FoR ThE REcRuITMENT oF dIVINaGuMa dEVELoPMENT oFFIcERs GRadE 
III oF MaNaGEMENT assIsTaNTs NoN-TEchNIcaL sEGMENT - 2 sERVIcE codE (MN-01-2006a) - 2016
  
APPLICATIONS are invited from the Sri Lankan citizens who are in possession of the minimum qualifications spelled out in this notice 
by the Director General of Department of Divinaguma Development to fill the above mentioned vacancies. 
2. applications perfected using both sides of an A4 paper according to the specimen form appended to this notification should 
be sent by the registered post addressed to - Registrar, university of sri Jayawardhanapura, Gangodawila, Nugegoda on or before 
29th January, 2016. This application should be prepared so that number 1 to 8 should be included in to the 1st page and the balance 
clearley in the next page. The top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application should be marked as "open competitive 
Examination for the recruitment of Divinaguma Development Officers" and self-addressed. Stamped envelope should be sent along 
with the application. The applications which are late, unclear   and incomplete will be rejected without notice.
 
3. Terms of engagement : 
 3.1 This post is permanent and pensionable. Officers must contribute to the "Widows and Orphans" pension Scheme from 
their salary. 
 3.2 Regulatoins from chapter 2 of the Establishment code 10-12 which are relevant to the appointment to the Government 
services are applicable.  
 3.3 The selected candidates should subject to the rules and regulations of the Establishment code, Financial Regulations 
and the directions of the department and other regulations and orders that may be issued by the government from time 
to time. 
4. General Qualifications : 
 4.1 applicant must be a citizen of sri Lanka, 
 4.2 should bear a good character,
 4.3 applicant must agree to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and must have suitable physical and mental fitness to 
perform the duties assigned. 
 4.4 The age must be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years on the closing date of calling of applications. 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
135
5. Educational Qualifications. - open recruitment : 
 (a) should have passed G. c. E. (ordinary Level) examination with six (06) subjects in one setting with credit passes 
to sinhala/Tamil/English language and Mathematics and two other subjects. 
 (b) should have passed at least one subject except General Knowledge in G. c. E. (advanced Level) examination. 
6. Professional qualifications/work experience.- Not applicable. 
7. Method of selection : 
 7.1 Written Competitive examination : 
 7.1.1 Conditions of Written Competitive examination :
  While the written examination will be conducted by the Vice chancellor/Registrar of the university of sri 
Jayawardhanapura, on behalf of the department of divinaguma development it will be held on a date informed 
by him. candidates must obey the rules and regulations imposed by him. 
  Admission papers will be issued to candidates those who are deemed to have fulfilled the qualifications in 
every aspect by the Registrar of university of sri Jayawardhanapura.
 7.1.2 While qualified applicants will be directed to a written competitive examination they will have to obtain 
minimum of 40% marks for each paper to be qualified to face the interview. 
 7.1.3 Subjects and the other relevant details of the written examination are as follows : 
  Question Paper Time allowed Total Marks Pass Marks
1. Intelligence Test  01 hour 100 40%
2. General knowledge about social Development 01 hour 100 40%
   Question Paper Syllabus
   Intelligence Test It is expected to measure the applicant's ability to comprehend 
    and intelligence through the checking of determinations and   
  responses for the questions presented in the context of the words,  
  numbers and figures.
   General Knowledge about social It is expected to measure the applicant's awareness and knowledge 
   development  on factors in different rural and national level environments and 
    factors relating to social, cultural, economical and other social   
  development. 
 7.2 Structured Interview : 
 7.2.1 a  quantity equivalent to two folds of applicants of the total number of vacancies in the order of the highest 
marks gained at the examination will be called for the structured interview. calling for hte structured interview 
should not be considered as a qualification to be recruited for the post. 
 7.2.2 Method of giving marks : 
      Main areas for which marks are given  Maximum Minimum Marks
        Marks required for 
         consideration to
         be selected  
    1.  Additional Educational Qualifications
                Examination  Marks
     G. c. E. (o/L)  12  30
     G. c. E. (a/L)  18
    2.  Experience     50
     Experience obtained in a relevant field is considered
    1.  Professional Qualifications :    Not relevant
     V ocational training received relevant to the field and    15   
  courses  followed at a government institution or an 
     institution recognized by the government
    2.  The skillfulness shown at the interview   05
            Total Marks   100

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
136
 7.3 The candid ates who obtained the highest marks at the 
written examination and at the structured interview will 
be selected for the recruitment. 
8. Recruitment.– Candidates who are qualified educationally 
which are mentioned under the paragraph 5 above and candidates 
who are selected based on the order of total marks gained at 
the written examination and the structured interview will be 
recruited as Divinaguma Development Officer-Grade III of (MN-
01-2006a) of the department of divinaguma development. 
The divinaguma director General will decide the number to 
be recruited depending on the service requirement, number of 
vacancies and other relevant factors. 
9. Salary Scale : 
 9.1 salary code : MN-01-2006a
 9.2 Salary Scale.– Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11x 170 - 10x240 
- 10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
10. examination Fees.– The examination fee is Rs. 500. 
applicant could pay non-returnable amount of Rs. 500 of 
examination fee to any "divinaguma community Based Bank" 
located islandwide and the paying in slip obtained should be 
pasted in the relevant cage of the application. The examination 
fee paid for the examination will not be refunded or exchanged 
for any other examination under any circumstance. 
11. examination centers.– The towns where examination 
centers will be located and the relevant numbers of the examination 
centers are given below. Incase if there is no sufficient number 
of candidates in a particular examination centre, they will be 
directed to a nearby centre. 
  Town                                     Town Number 
colombo  01
Gampaha  02
Kalutara  03
Kandy  04
Matale  05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle  07
Matara  08
hambantota 09
Jaffna  10
Mannar  11
Vauniya  12
Mulathiw  13
Kilinochchi 14
Baticaloa  15
ampara  16
Trincomale 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttlam  19
anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla  22
Monaragala 23
Ratnapura  24
Kegalle  25
12. If any information furnished by the candidate in this 
application is found to be false or inaccurate before selection he/
she will be disqualified and if such thing is found at any moment 
after the recruitment, his/her services will be terminated. 
13. Certifying the signature.– The applicants should get their 
specimen signatures certified by a Head of a Government School/
Retired Principal of a Government school, a Gramaniladari, 
Justice of Peace/c ommissioner of oath/attorney-at-law/Notary 
Public Warranted Officer of Army/Staff Officer of Government 
or Local Government service who is  drawing  an  annual  
salary of  Rs. 240,360 or above. Those applicants who are 
already employed in the government service should send in their 
applications through the head of the institution. The authorized 
officer to get decisions regarding any matter that is not mentioned 
here will be director General of the department of divinaguma 
development. 
  ChanDra WiCkramasinghe, 
  director General. 
department of divinaguma development, 
4th Floor - stage I,
sethsiripaya, 
Baththaramulla. 
  Town                                     Town Number
speCimen appliCation 
Department of Divinaguma Development 
OPEN COMPEtItIvE ExAMINAtION fOR tHE RECRuItMENt Of DIvINAGuMA DEvElOPMENt OffICERS 
GRADe III - 2016
For office use only 
Language medium of the written examination : 
sinhala - s   Tamil - T
(Write the relevant English letter inside the box)
01.  (i) Name in full :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) Name with initials (sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) Full Name (in English block letters) :

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
137
02. address and Telephone No. : 
  (i) Private address :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Residence Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Mobile Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
03. Gender :
   Male
   Female     
   (Mark P inside the box)
04. National Identity card Number : 
05.  (i) date of Birth : y ear :      Month :   date : 
  (ii) age at  closing date of applications :  y ears :                   Months :   days :
06. civil status :
   Married
   unmarried  
   (Mark P   inside the relevant cage)
07. details of G. c. E. (o/L) Examination (First attempt) 
 (Please attach a copy of the certificate)
  (i) year and month the examination was passed :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Index Number of the candidate :––––––––––––.
  Subject Grade Subject Grade 
  (i) ...................... ...................... (vi) ...................... ......................
  (ii) ...................... ...................... (vii) ...................... ......................
  (iii) ...................... ...................... (viii) ...................... ......................
  (iv) ...................... ...................... (xi) ...................... ......................
  (v) ...................... ...................... (x) ...................... ......................
08. details of G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
 (Please attach a copy of the certificate)
  (i) year and Month the examination was passed :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Index Number of the candidate :––––––––––––.
  Subject Grade Subject Grade 
  (i) ...................... ...................... (iii) ...................... ......................
  (ii) ...................... ...................... (iv) ...................... ......................
09. Examination fees : 
Please paste the receipt properly.
10. statement  of the applicant : 
I, do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any 
information furnished by me in this application is found to be false or inaccurate before I am selected, I am liable to disqualify for 
selection and I will be subject to relevant disciplinary course of action if such revelation is made after the recruitment. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2016
138
11.  certifying the signature : 
I, hereby inform that I personally know the applicant who named as ...................................... and I hereby certify that he/she 
placed his/her signature in front of me on .....................................
  –––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of certifying officer. 
date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the officer :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
Official stamp :––––––––––––.
12. only for applicants in public service : 
I, hereby inform that Mr./Mrs./Miss (Name) ............................................. is currently appointed in this Ministry/department 
permanently/temporarily/casually as (Post) .................................. and can/cannot release him/her from duty if he/she is selected to the 
above post.
       –––––––––––––––––––,
       signature of the head of the department. 
date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the officer :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
Official stamp :––––––––––––.
01–666
PRINTEd  aT  ThE  dEPaRTMENT  oF  GoVERNMENT  PRINTING,  sRI  LaNKa.