

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2259$7 - 2021 foieïn¾ ui 20 jeks i÷od - 2021'12'20
No.  2259/7  -   MoNdAy ,   deceMber  20,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
INSTITUTE  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROFESSIONALS  SRI  LANKA  
(INCORPORATION)  ACT,  No.  1  OF  2020
(order under Section 7)
ruleS of the Institute of environmental Professionals Sri lanka made by the council of the Institute of environmental  
Preofessionals Sri lanka under Section 07 of the Institute of environmental Professionals Sri lanka (Incorporation) Act, 
No. 1 of 2020.
Prof. NiraNjaNie ratNayake,
President, Institute of Environmental Professionals Sri Lanka.
colombo,
23rd April 2021.
Schedule
rules of the Institute of environmental Professionals Sri lanka
 MAde  uNder  SectIoN  7  (1)  of  the  INStItute  of  eNvIroNMeNtAl  ProfeSSIoNAlS 
of  SrI lANkA  (INcorPorAtIoN)  Act,  No.  01  of  2020.
1A-   PG 5665 —  30 (12/2021)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
2A
Contents
1.0 Short tItle 3
2.0 reGIStered offIce 3
3.0 offIce beArerS ANd couNcIl  of the INStItute 3
4.0 PoWerS ANd dutIeS of offIce-beArerS 4
5.0 PoWerS of the couNcIl 6
6.0 MeetINGS of the couNcIl 7
7.0 ANNuAl GeNerAl MeetING 7
8.0 SPecIAl GeNerAl MeetING 8
9.0 coNduct  of buSINeSS At MeetINGS 9
10.0 vIrtuAl  MeetINGS 9
11.0 StANdING coMMItteeS 9
12.0 MeMberShIP & ProfeSSIoNAl QuAlIfIcAtIoNS of the INStItute 10
13.0 certIfIcA tIoN of MeMberShIP 12
14.0 reSIGNA tIoN or reMovAl froM MeMberShIP 12
15.0 re-AdMISSIoN to MeMberShIP 12
16.0 feeS ANd ANNuAl  SubScrIPtIoNS 12
17.0 MeMberShIP reGISter 13
18.0 code of ethIcS ANd dIScIPlINAry  Procedure 13
19.0 fINANcIAl  yeAr 13
20.0 fINANcIAl  MAtterS 13
21.0 AudIt 14
22.0 AMeNdMeNtS to the ruleS of the INStItute 14
23.0  bookS of the INStItute 14
24.0 coMMoN SeAl 14
25.0 PublIcAtIoN of NAMeS of MeMberS 14
26.0  decISIoN of the couNcIl fINAl 15
27.0 coNStItutIoN of the INStItute 15
28.0 INterPret AtIoN 15
APPeNdIX A: (rule 3.9) 
 PROCEDURE FOR ELECTION OF OFFICE-BEARERS AND OTHER MEMBERS OF COUNCIL 15
APPeNdIX b 1: (rules 12.1, 12.5 and 12.9) 
 CRITERIA FOR MEMBERSHIP AND PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS 16
APPeNdIX b 2: (rules 12.6 and 12.10) 
 PROCEDURE FOR APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP 18
APPeNdIX c:  
 THE PROCEDURE FOR AWARD OF CHARTERED ENVIRONMENTAL PROFESSIONAL 18
APPeNdIX d: 
 CODE OF ETHICS OF IEPSL 21

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
3A
 
RULES OF THE INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROFESSIONALS SRI LANKA.
Made under section 7 (1) of the Institute of Environmental Professionals of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)  
Act, No. 01 of 2020.
1.0 SHORT TITLE
 these rules may be cited as the rules of the Institute of environmental Professionals Sri lanka (IePSl) 
2.0 REGISTERED OFFICE
 The registered office and place of business of the Institute shall be at the address 104, Parisara Piyasa, Denzil  
kobbekaduwa Mw., battaramulla (Sri lanka) or such other address as may be decided by the council from time to time.
3.0 OFFICE BEARERS AND COUNCIL OF THE INSTITUTE
 3.1 (a) The Office-Bearers of the Institute shall consist of:
 i. President 
 ii. President elect
 iii. Immediate Past President
 iv. Senior vice President
 v. v ice President
 vi. Secretary 
 vii. Assistant Secretary 
 viii. t reasurer
 ix. Assistant treasurer 
 x. editor
 xi. Assistant editor
(b) The Council of the Institute shall consist of the Office Bearers as above (a) and Twelve (12) other Council 
Members 
3.2 The respective Office Bearers and the twelve Council members listed in 3.1  (a) & (b) shall be elected at an Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) of the Institute from among its corporate Members of good standing (vide rule 3.7) 
present at the AGM, according to the procedure given in Appendix A, and all such office bearers and members 
so elected shall be deemed to be council members;
a) only members who have served in the council for at least three years shall be eligible for election as 
President, President-elect, Senior vice President and vice-President. 
b) only members who have served in the council for at least one year shall be eligible for election as Secretary, 
treasurer and editor. 
c) If a sufficient number of nominations is not received at the AGM for election to the Council, the Council 
shall fill all such vacancies at its first meeting.
3.3 On completion of the term of office of the President, or in the event of his/her ceasing to be the President on the 
grounds set out in Rule 3.9, the President-Elect shall automatically assume the office of President. 
3.4 (a) A member may hold the office of President, for maximum of two consecutive sessions/years, if he/she is 
re-nominated for the second term by majority vote. [however, this is subject to the provision in rule 3.5]. 
In such situations, the President elect, Senior vice President and vice President shall remain in the same 
positions. 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
4A
 (b) the Secretary, Assistant Secretary, treasurer, Assistant treasurer, editor, Assistant editor and the other 
members of the council shall automatically cease to be in such positions at the end of each session/ year 
but shall be eligible for re-election or re-nomination.
3.5 All council members except the President and Immediate-Past President shall be elected annually. Also, vide 
provisions in rule 3.4 (a) above.
3.6 Council members shall hold office from the time of closure of business of the Annual General Meeting at which 
they were elected until the time of closure of business at the next Annual General Meeting.
3.7 only members of good standing, i.e. members who are corporate members of the Institute who have no arrears 
in membership fees, are eligible to be elected to council and to vote at the Annual General Meeting. 
3.8 An office bearer or any other Council member of the Institute shall cease to hold office,
 
 (a) If he/she ceases to be a corporate member of the Institute, or
 (b) if by letter addressed to the President or to the Secretary, he/she intimates his/her desire to resign from the 
membership of the council, which is accepted by the council, or
 (c) if he/she absents him/herself from attending three consecutive regular meetings of the council without 
approved leave from the council.
3.9 In the event of the office of the President falling vacant due to death, incapacitation, resignation or cessation of 
membership of the Institute, such vacancy shall be filled by the Council at a Council Meeting, by the President 
elect, until the next Annual General Meeting. this will not detract from his/ her term as President during the next 
session. he/she will serve the full term of the next session as the President. the council may decide to invite a 
Past President to serve in the vacancy for the post of Immediate Past President created in the council. 
3.10 In the event of the office of the Secretary falling vacant due to death, incapacitation, resignation or cessation of 
membership of the Institute, such vacancy shall be filled by the Council at a Council Meeting, by the Assistant 
Secretary, until the next Annual General Meeting.
3.11 In the event of the office of the Treasurer falling vacant due to death, incapacitation, resignation or cessation of 
membership of the Institute, such vacancy shall be filled by the Council at a Council Meeting, by the Assistant 
treasurer, until the next Annual General Meeting.
3.12 In the event of the office of the Editor falling vacant due to death, incapacitation, resignation or cessation of 
membership of the Institute, such vacancy shall be filled by the Council at a Council Meeting, by the Assistant 
editor, until the next Annual General Meeting.
3.13 In the event of any other vacancy occurring in the Council, the Council shall appoint a suitably qualified member 
(a corporate member) of good standing to fill the vacancy.
3.14 No act or proceedings of the Institute or the council shall be deemed to be invalid by reason of the existence 
of vacancy/ vacancies in the council or due to any defect in the election or appointment to the council, of any 
member/s, provided the number of members of the Council is not reduced below fifteen.  
4.0 POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICE-BEARERS
4.1 the President 
 (a) shall preside at all constitutionally convened meetings of the Institute at which he/she is present and shall 
in that capacity regulate the proceedings;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
5A
 (b) shall advise the Secretary to convene all constitutional meetings of the general membership or of the 
council, such meetings being the Annual General Meetings, Special General Meetings, ordinary council 
Meetings and extraordinary council Meetings;
 (c) shall be one of the alternative signatories on all cheques issued by the Institute.
4.2 the President-elect
 (a) shall preside at all constitutionally convened meetings of the Institute in the absence of the President;
 (b) shall execute all other duties of the President in his/her absence.
 (c) shall perform all such duties delegated to him/her by the council or by any constitutional meeting.; 
4.3 the Immediate Past-President 
 (a) shall preside at all constitutionally convened meetings of the Institute in the absence of the President and 
the President-elect;
 (b) shall execute all other duties delegated to him/her by the council in the absence of the President and  
President-elect;
 (c) shall perform all such duties delegated to him/her by the council or by any constitutional meeting.
4.4  the Senior vice President /the vice-President 
 (a) shall preside at all constitutionally convened meetings of the Institute in the absence of the President, the 
President-elect and the Immediate Past-President;
 (b) shall execute all other duties of the President in the absence of the President, the President-elect and the 
Immediate Past President;
 (c) shall perform all such duties delegated to him/her by the council or by any constitutional meeting.
4.5 the Secretary
 
 (a) shall convene all constitutional meetings of the Institute;
 (b) shall keep all records of the Institute (except financial) and all minutes of the constitutionally convened 
meetings, and undertake such other matters as the council may from time to time determine;
 (c) shall distribute the minutes of the meetings among the membership;
 (d) shall in consultation with the President prepare the agenda of the meetings and circulate same among the 
relevant membership within the stipulated period;
 (e) shall keep an attendance register for all categories of membership;
 (f) shall keep all other documents belonging to and concerning the Institute;
 (g) shall maintain a register of corporate and non-corporate members of the Institute;
 (h) shall receive all communications to the Institute and shall respond to such communications with his / her 
signature in consultation with the president; shall be one of the alternative signatories on all cheques issued 
by the Institute;

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
6A
 (i) shall prepare for the approval of the council and for the presentation at the Annual General Meeting, the 
Annual report of the activities of the Institute during the year;
 (j) shall be the custodian of the seal of the Institute.
4.6 the Assistant Secretary
 (a) shall record all minutes of constitutionally convened meetings in the absence of the Secretary or when 
called upon to do so by the Secretary;
 (b) shall execute all other duties of the Secretary in his/her absence;
 (c) shall perform all such duties delegated to him/her by the council or the Secretary or by any constitutional 
meeting
4.7 the t reasurer
 (a) shall keep the financial records of the Institute and undertake such other matters as the Council may deter-
mine from time to time.;
 (b) shall request and receive registration fees, annual subscriptions, and any other monies due to the Institute;
 (c) shall deposit monies received in the name of the Institute in a bank or banks as approved by the council;
 (d) shall retain in hand for current expenses of the Institute a sum of money not exceeding twenty five  
thousand rupees in cash; the above amount can be decided by the council from time to time
 (e) shall be responsible for making all payments on behalf of the Institute;
 (f) shall report the monthly financial status to the council and prepare the Statement of Accounts as and when 
necessary;
 (g) shall prepare the Annual budget;
 (h) shall prepare the Annual Statement of Accounts and get it audited for presentation at the Annual General 
Meeting and circulate it to the membership at least 21 working days prior to the holding of the Annual 
General Meeting, and in the event of any query made by any member, the treasurer shall respond to such 
query at the AGM;
 (i) shall be the first signatory on all cheques issued by the Institute in connection with all expenses, such 
expenses being within the approved budget.
4.8  Assistant treasurer
 (a) shall execute all duties of the treasurer in his/her absence;
 (b) shall perform all such duties delegated to him/her by the council or the treasurer or by any constitutional 
meeting
 
5.0 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL
5.1 Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by provisions in the Act, the council shall have the 
powers to
 (a) lay down powers, duties, rights and functions of the office-bearers of the institute and from time to time add, 
amend, repeal or replace any such powers, duties, rights and functions as and when considered necessary;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
7A
 (b) approve the annual budget and manage the finances of the Institute
 (c) formulate membership criteria for admission/election/transfer to the various grades of membership of the 
Institute;
 (d) co-opt any corporate member of the Institute to the council provided that such co-opted member shall not 
have the right to vote at the council meeting;
 (e) Manage the Standing committees consisting of corporate members for the purpose of advising the council 
on matters of specific concern;
 (f) refer, when necessary, matters pertaining to the rules of the Institute to the relevant Standing committees 
before a final decision is taken; and
 (g) Add, amend, repeal or replace any of the rules of the Institute provided that such addition, amendment, 
repeal or replacement shall be ratified at a General Meeting of members of the Institute by a two-third 
majority of the corporate members present and voting, held in accordance with the provisions of the rules 
for the time being in-force. (a two-third majority means the number of votes cast in favour is equal to or 
more than two thirds of the total number of votes cast)
 (h) the council may appoint suitable persons as the executive Secretary and staff of the secretariat, according 
to the scheme of recruitment approved by council, and within the budget allocated for such personnel.
 (i) the council may appoint suitable employees as contractors, consultants, assistants etc. for special projects 
according to the scheme of recruitment approved by the council, and within the budget allocated for such 
personnel.
6.0 MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
6.1 the council shall meet at least once a month; or more frequently if the council decides, and the Secretary shall 
give at least seven working days’ notice to all members of the council of the date, time and venue of such meeting. 
The incumbent President shall chair the Council meeting. In his /her absence, one of the office bearers as stated 
in clauses 4.2 to 4.4 of these rules shall chair the meeting. the council Meetings shall be conducted according 
to an Agenda circulated among the council Members in advance.
6.2 A special meeting of the council shall be summoned by the Secretary if decided by the President, or upon the 
receipt of a written requisition signed by at least four members of the Council to consider any matters specified 
by the President or contained in such requisition. At least forty-eight hours’ notice shall be given to all council 
members of the date, time and venue of such meeting, together with the business to be transacted there-at. only 
matters pertaining to the business to be transacted mentioned in the notice calling for the meeting shall be taken 
up at the special meeting of the council.
6.3 The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall be nine. There shall be at least three Office Bearers present.
6.4  Any member of the Council who fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the Council, without prior notifi-
cation to the council, shall cease to be a member of the council with effect from the end of the third consecutive 
meeting for which he/she is not present.
6.5 virtual attendance for the meetings, where prior arrangements have been made, is acceptable.
7.0 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
7.1 The Annual General Meeting of the Institute shall be held not later than three months after the end of the financial 
year of the Institute. 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
8A
7.2 At least ; thirty-five days’ notice of the Annual General Meeting shall be given by the Secretary to all the corporate 
and non-corporate members of the Institute, and the Agenda for the Annual General Meeting shall be sent to all 
members at least seven working days before the date of such meeting. 
7.3 Notice of resolutions to be moved at any Annual General Meeting, duly signed by a proposer and a seconder, 
both being corporate members of good standing of the Institute, should reach the Secretary at least twenty-one 
days before the date of such meeting. Any resolutions pertaining to revision of 
rules of the Institute, duly signed 
by a proposer and a seconder, both being corporate members of good standing of the Institute, shall reach the 
Secretary at least twenty eight days before the date of the Annual General Meeting. A subcommittee appointed 
for the purpose of review of rules shall review any resolutions pertaining to revision of 
rules of the Institute, duly 
received by the Secretary, and the observations of the subcommittee should be presented to the council before 
the Annual General Meeting.  the council shall deliberate on each and every valid resolution duly submitted 
by the members, and give the observations of the council, which should be read by the Secretary at the time of 
presenting the resolution to the membership at the Annual General Meeting. 
7.4 t he business of the Annual General Meeting shall be carried out by the out-going council and the next council 
will take over their duties from the out-going council immediately after the proceedings of the Annual General 
Meeting are concluded.
7.5 t he agenda of the Annual General Meeting shall include
(a) Adoption of the minutes of the last AGM
(b) Election of office-bearers and other members of the Council;
(c) Adoption of the Annual report and the Statement of Accounts for the preceding year;
(d) r esolutions if any and
(e) any other business of which due notice has been given to the members.
7.6 the quorum for an Annual General Meeting shall be 100 corporate members. In the event that there is no quorum, 
the meeting shall be reconvened after 30 minutes and the number of members present is taken as the quorum. 
8.0 SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING
8.1 A Special General Meeting shall be summoned by the Secretary if directed by the President or upon receipt of a 
written requisition signed by a proposer, seconder and at least twenty five members supporting the request, all 
of whom shall be corporate members, to consider any matter specified by the President or brought up in such 
requisition.
8.2
 At least seven working days’ notice of such Special General Meeting shall be given by the Secretary to all members 
of the Institute, specifying the date, time and venue of such meeting together with the business to be transacted 
thereat.
8.3
 t he meeting shall be called to order by the President, and in the case of a requisition by members, the proposer 
and seconder shall be present at the scheduled time of the meeting.  the quorum for Special General Meetings 
shall be 50 corporate members. 
8.4 t he Agenda of a Special General Meeting shall be restricted to the business to be transacted thereat, as mentioned 
in the notice calling for the meeting.  

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
9A
9.0 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS AT MEETINGS
9.1 the President shall chair all meetings of the Institute. In his/her absence, the President-elect or if he/she is also 
absent, the immediate Past-President or if he/she too is absent the Senior vice-President shall preside. In the event 
of all being absent, a member of the council other than the Secretary or the treasurer, elected by the corporate 
members present, shall chair the meeting.
9.2 On any point of order arising at a meeting, the interpretation given by the President shall be final and conclusive.
9.3 v oting at meetings shall normally be by a show of hands. however, secret ballot may be resorted to, if a simple 
majority of the corporate members present adopts a proposal to that effect.
9.4 If an equal number of votes are cast for and against the matter at issue, the President shall have the right to cast 
an extra vote to resolve the issue (casting vote).
9.5 Non-corporate members may be present and participate at all meetings of the general membership of the Institute, 
but shall not vote at such meetings. 
 
10.0 VIRTUAL MEETINGS
10.1 the council has the power to decide when and where to hold meetings such as council Meetings, committee 
Meetings and General Meetings, without some or any of the members being physically present in a room, as 
virtual or hybrid meetings. 
 
11.0 STANDING COMMITTEES 
11.1 Standing committees shall be established by the council for the purpose of advising the council on matters of 
specific concern.
11.2 the members of Standing committees shall be appointed at the Annual General Meeting from among the mem-
bership.
11. the following Standing committees shall be appointed;
 a Finance Committee consisting of at least eight members including the President, Secretary, treasurer, 
Assistant treasurer and at least two non-council members to advise the council on matters connected with 
the finances of the Institute and to find avenues to procure suitable finances to sustain the Institute. The 
President shall chair the finance committee.
 b Academic and Examination Committee  consisting of at least six members including three council 
members and three non-Council members to undertake duties on designing, organizing and implementing 
training and development programs, set examination guidelines and administer examinations.
 c Membership Committee consisting of at least six members with at least three council and three non-coun-
cil members to propose criteria, standards and procedures for different classes of membership, evaluate 
the applications for membership, increase the membership base of the Institute and enhance the quality of 
service to the membership by the Institute. 
 d Industrial Relations Committee consisting of at least six members with at least three from the council 
and three non-council members, preferably from the industry to liaise with businesses and institutions 
to maintain a cordial relationship to understand their strategic environmental issues in relation to IePSl 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
10A
objectives and to actively engage in supporting research and development, consulting and cSr activities 
in the business and institutional sectors by engaging individual members, provide environmental services 
and advocacy.
 e Marketing and Communication Committee consisting of at least six members with at least three each 
from among council and non-council members.  this committee is appointed to maintain and update the 
official web site and media updates, maintain and distribute newsletters, organize public lectures/discus -
sions, provide marketing support for IePSl key activities, increase institutional value addition, branding 
and marketing activities for the Institute among members as well as among corporate and other service 
providers. 
 f Research and Publication Committee consisting of at least six members with at least three each from 
among Council and non- Council members, the Editor and Assistant Editor as ex officio members, to ad-
minister and organize IEPSL research and dissemination through symposia., prepare and publish the journal 
of the Institute, produce other scientific publications, promote research on environmental management and 
conservation and support State and NGo sector policy making through expert opinion inputs.  
11.4 the maximum number of members of each Standing committee shall be limited to ten.
11.5 The vacancies in the Standing Committees will be filled by the Council with suitable members.
11.6 the council shall appoint a council member as the chairperson for each Standing committee except for the  
finance committee, which is chaired by the President. the Secretary of each Standing committee shall be 
appointed from among the members of each Standing committee by the chairperson of the committee in  
consultation with members of the committee.
11.7 the Standing committees shall meet as frequently as required by conventional or electronic mode, but at least 
once a month. Minutes of the Standing committee meetings shall be maintained and submitted to the Secretary 
of the Institute.  Standing committees shall submit monthly reports on matters for approval and information to 
the council, one week prior to the council meeting. 
11.8 every Standing committee shall frame procedures for the conduct of its business; such procedures shall be subject 
to approval of the council after which they shall become operative.
11.9 the Standing committees will be responsible to prepare a road map according to the objectives mentioned above 
with an indicative budget within a month of appointment of Standing committees, which will be presented to 
the council at its second meeting by the chairperson.
11.10 the quorum for a meeting of any Standing committee shall be three.
11.11 the administration and resource coordination for each Standing committee and coordination among committees 
will be the responsibility of the Secretary of the Institute.  
11.12   the council may establish additional Standing committees from time to time if deemed necessary 
12.0 MEMBERSHIP  &  PROFESSIONAL  QUALIFICATIONS  OF  THE  INSTITUTE
the membership of the Institute comprises the following categories of members:
A. corporate Members:
 • Fellows
 • Members

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
11A
 b. Non-corporate Members
  • Honorary Fellows
  • Honorary Members 
  • Associate Members
  • Student Members
 C. Professional qualifications of the institute
  • Chartered Environmental Professional
12.1 the council may admit as a fellow of the Institute any person from among the membership, who possesses the 
qualifications as laid down in the criteria for membership currently in force (vide Appendix b1).
12.2 Any person desirous of being admitted as a fellow of the Institute by transfer from the grade of Member shall 
be proposed by a fellow of the Institute and supported by two corporate members, on a form prescribed by the 
council. this form shall contain full details and the signatures of the candidate, the proposer and two referees.  
The first ten fellow members shall be proposed by the Council.  
12.3 the completed proposal form shall be delivered to the Secretary who will forward it to the Membership com-
mittee for its observations. once the observations of the Membership committee is received, the Secretary shall 
submit it to the council for its decision. the Secretary, on instructions from the council, shall notify the candidate 
of the result of his - her application.
12.4 The Council may admit as a Member of the Institute any person who possesses the qualifications 
 as laid down in the criteria for membership currently in force (
vide Appendix b1).
12.5 Any person desirous of being admitted a Member of the Institute shall be sponsored by two corporate members 
of the Institute (vide Appendix b 2) on a form prescribed by the council. this form shall contain full details and 
the signatures of the candidate and of the two sponsors.
12.6 the completed proposal form shall be delivered to the Secretary who shall forward it to the Membership com-
mittee for its recommendation. once it is received from the Membership committee, the Secretary shall submit 
it to the council for its decision. the Secretary on instructions from the council shall notify the candidate of the 
result of his application.
12.7 the council may admit as an honorary fellow or an honorary Member or an Associate Member or a Student 
Member of the Institute any person who possesses the qualifications as laid down in the criteria for membership 
currently in force (
vide Appendix b 1).
12.8  Any person desirous of being admitted as an Associate Member or a Student Member of the Institute shall be 
recommended by two corporate members of the Institute (
vide Appendix b2) on a form prescribed by the council. 
this form shall contain full details and the signatures of the candidate and the two recommenders.
12.9 the completed proposal form shall be delivered to the Secretary who shall forward it to the Membership com-
mittee for its recommendation. once it is received from the Membership committee, the Secretary shall submit 
it to the council for its decision. the Secretary on instructions from the council shall notify the candidate of the 
result of his / her application.
12.10 the effective date of a candidate’s membership for any grade other than that of a chartered environmental Pro-
fessional or fellow shall be the date on which the registration fee is paid to the treasurer of the Institute. In the 
case of a chartered environmental Professional or a fellow, it shall be the date of the council Meeting at which 
the election or the transfer was approved.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
12A
13.0 CERTIFICATION OF MEMBERSHIP
13.1 every fellow and every Member of the Institute shall, on payment of the prescribed fees under these regulations, 
receive within a reasonable time, certification appropriate to his/her grade of membership and shall, so long as 
he/she remains in membership, be entitled to retain his/her certificate on payment of the annual subscription for 
the time being in force.
13.2 Every certificate issued by the Institute shall be in such form as the Council may from time to time determine 
and shall be the property of the Institute. In the event of cessation or suspension of membership, the certificate 
shall be returned to the Institute, failing which, it shall be recoverable on demand.
14.0 RESIGNATION OR REMOV AL FROM MEMBERSHIP
14.1 A person shall cease to be a corporate member or non-corporate member if by letter addressed to the Secretary, he/
she intimates his/her desire to resign from his/her membership of the Institute, which is accepted by the council.
14.2 It shall be a condition of the admission or transfer  of every member that his/her application and proposal con-
tains no untrue or misleading statement relating to himself/herself; the admission of any such member may be 
annulled by a resolution of the Council, if, after due inquiry, the Council is satisfied that the particulars given in 
the application/ proposal were in some respect incorrect or misleading, or if an inquiry instituted by the council 
reveals that prior to election the member had been guilty of conduct unworthy of a member of the Institute. 
14.3 Any member of the Institute against whom an allegation of misconduct is made, shall be dealt with by the coun-
cil, according to the disciplinary Procedure approved by the council. the council may, by resolution, expel 
or suspend for any period of time from membership, reprimand, admonish or otherwise penalize/ punish any 
member found guilty of misconduct. 
                                                                                                                                     
15.0 RE-ADMISSION TO MEMBERSHIP
15.1 A person who has ceased to be a corporate member or a non-corporate member by resignation or by being in 
arrears of subscription, may reapply for the membership and be re-admitted to membership by the council 
15.2 A person to be re-admitted to membership shall have paid all arrears of subscriptions and fees due and any pen-
alties as decided by the council and informed to the general membership. 
16.0 FEES AND ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTIONS
16.1 the application processing fees and annual subscription shall be as decided by the council from time to time 
and informed to the membership giving prior notice of effective date/s. 
16.2  The annual subscription is due on the first day of January of each financial year.
16.3 If the annual subscription for the financial year immediately preceding the Annual General Meeting is not paid by 
the thirty first day of March of such financial year, the Treasurer will send such members a notice by Registered 
Post or email to the last known address or email address and if all arrears are not paid within three months of such 
notice, such member shall not be entitled to: attend and take part in discussions at any meeting of the Institute, 
vote on any matter, be elected or appointed to council, be appointed to any Standing committee or any other 
committee or Sub-committee, nor receive any publications of the Institute; and if the dues are still not paid by 
the thirty first day of March of the year following the financial year in question, such member shall cease to be 
a member.
16.4 the council may, where they think it is desirable, defer taking action prescribed in the rule No. 16.3 until such 
later date as they may determine.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
13A
16.5 every person admitted as a corporate member or non-corporate member of the Institute shall remain liable for 
the payment of his/her annual subscription until he/she has either forfeited his/her claim to membership or has 
notified the Secretary in writing of his/her desire to resign.
16.6 When a member is admitted to a higher grade of membership, he/she shall pay the full year’s subscription to-
gether with the arrears of subscriptions and the relevant fees applicable to the new grade of membership. If he/
she has already paid all arrears and the current year’s subscription, he/she shall pay the difference of the annual 
subscription of the two grades together with the relevant registration fee. however, if the admission to the high-
er grade takes place after the 30th day of March of any year, he/she shall pay half the difference of the annual 
subscription of the two grades together with the relevant registration fees. 
17.0 MEMBERSHIP REGISTER
17.1 the council shall maintain a Membership register for all grades of membership, and such register shall be made 
available for inspection by the membership, if a request has been made to the Secretary in writing, giving him/
her at least seven days’ notice.
17.2  In addition, the council shall also maintain a register for chartered environmental Professionals and such register 
shall also be made available for inspection by the membership, if a request has been made to the Secretary in 
writing giving him - her at least seven days’ notice.
18.0 CODE OF ETHICS AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE 
18.1 All members of the Institute are bound by the code of ethics of the IePSl (vide Appendix d). No member shall 
conduct himself/herself in such a manner, as would, in the opinion of the council, prejudice his/her professional 
status or the reputation of the Institute.
18.2 No member shall in any way be associated with any occupation or business if such association or business, in 
the opinion of the council, is inconsistent with membership of the Institute 
18.3 If any complaint regarding unethical behavior of a member is received by the President, Secretary or other Officer 
of the Institute, such complaint shall be investigated according to the disciplinary Procedures to be  stipulated 
by the council. 
18.4 Where a disciplinary committee appointed by the council to conduct an inquiry is of the opinion that the evi-
dence of any person or the production by any person of any document would be required or necessary for such 
inquiry, it may, by a notice in writing, request such person to attend at such time and place as shall be specified 
in such notice, in order to give evidence or to provide such document.
19.0 FINANCIAL YEAR
19.1 The Financial Year of the Institute shall be from the first day of January to the thirty first day of December of 
every year.
20.0 FINANCIAL MATTERS
20.1 the council shall cause to be kept proper books of accounts with respect to all sums of money received and 
expended by the Institute and the matters in respect of which such receipts and expenditure take place and the 
assets and liabilities of the Institute, and all other matters necessary for showing the true state and condition of 
the funds of the Institute.
20.2 The Council may approve a bank or banks where a current account, savings account and/or fixed deposits on 
behalf of the Institute may be opened.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
14A
20.3 All cheques drawn on behalf of the Institute shall be signed by the treasurer and either the President or the 
Secretary.
20.4 No receipt issued on behalf of the Institute shall bind the Institute unless it is on an IEPSL official receipt form 
and bears the signature of the treasurer.
20.5 financial matters shall follow the council approved financial Procedure of the Institute 
21.0 AUDIT
21.1  The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited annually by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditor ap-
pointed by the Auditor - General in terms of provisions of Article 154 of the constitution. (refer 10.3 of the Act)
22.0 AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF THE INSTITUTE
22.1  the council, when they consider it expedient to propose the framing of any new rule or amendment or replace-
ment or repeal of any existing rules, shall present such resolutions at the next Annual General Meeting to decide 
thereon
22.2 Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this-rule, a new rule or the amendment or replacement or repeal 
of any existing rule may be proposed by any corporate member, as a duly formulated resolution as per rule 7.3, 
at an Annual General Meeting, if due notice has been given and such item is included in the agenda of the Annual 
General Meeting.
23.0 BOOKS OF THE INSTITUTE
23.1 the council shall cause to be maintained by the honorary Secretary, a register of fellows, Members, honorary 
Members, Associates, and Students (vide rule 17.0).
23.2 A separate register for chartered environmental Professionals, minutes of meetings, a register of attendance at 
any such meetings, books of accounts or any other books as the council deems necessary.
23.3 the books and accounts of the Institute shall be open to inspection by any corporate member of the Institute after 
a request has been made to the Secretary or to the treasurer, as the case may be, in writing, giving him - her at 
least seven working days’ notice.
24.0 COMMON SEAL
24.1 The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two 
members of the council who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence and such signing 
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
24.2 the seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody of the Secretary. In his/her absence, this may be delegated 
to an Office Bearer of the Institute as may be decided by the Council. 
25.0 PUBLICATION OF NAMES OF MEMBERS
 
25.1 The Council, at its discretion, may publish in the official website of the institute and update the list annually, of 
members who are in good stead and are entitled to use the following designator letters after their names:
 fellow of the Institute of environmental Professionals Sri lanka – fIePSl
 chartered environmental Professional Sri lanka cenvP
 Member of the Institute of environmental Professionals – MIePSl. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
15A
26.0  DECISION OF THE COUNCIL FINAL
26.1 In the interpretation of any of the foregoing regulations and in any matter not provided for therein, the decision 
of the Council shall be final within the provisions of the Act.
27.0 CONSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTE
27.1 the Institute of environmental Professionals Sri lanka (IePSl) (Incorporation) Act, No.01 of 2020 read to-
gether with the foregoing rules of the Institute will generally be referred to as the constitution of the Institute of 
environmental Professionals Sri lanka (IePSl).
28.0 INTERPRETATION
28.1 In the rules, if not inconsistent with the context:
 a) “the Institute” means the Institute of environmental Professionals Sri lanka (IePSl) as incorporated by 
Act of Parliament, No. 01 of 2020.
 b) the “council” means the council of the Institute of environmental Professionals Sri lanka (IePSl).
 c) “Council Members” means any office-bearer or any other member of the Council.
 d) “corporate member” means a fellow, chartered environmental Professional or Member of the Institute.
 e) “Non-corporate member” means an honorary Member or Associate Member or Student member of the 
Institute.
 f) “Act” means the Institute of environmental Professionals Sri lanka (IePSl) (Incorporation) Act, No.01 
of 2020 together with any amendment thereof.
  “rule” means any of the foregoing rules adopted at a General meeting and any other rule or rules adopted 
at subsequent Annual General Meetings or General Meetings or Special General Meetings.
 g) Words in the masculine gender shall include both the masculine as well as the feminine gender.
APPENDIX A: (Rule 3.9) PROCEDURE FOR ELECTION OF OFFICE-BEARERS AND OTHER MEMBERS OF 
COUNCIL
1. the council shall appoint an election Panel consisting of Immediate Past-President, President and President 
Elect for the purpose of election of office-bearers and other members of the Council.  The Secretary shall furnish 
all necessary information to the Election Panel. The Chairman of the election panel shall officiate as the Pro-tem 
chairman for the conduct of the election.
2. The office-bearers, (except the President and the immediate Past-President) and other members of the Council 
shall be elected according to the procedure laid down hereinafter, at the Annual General Meeting. however, the 
posts of President Elect and Senior Vice President will normally be filled by members who held the posts of 
Senior vice President and vice President of the previous council respectively.
3. A candidate for the post of any office-bearer or other member of the Council shall be a corporate member eligi-
ble to vote at the AGM at which the election is due to take place. Such a candidate shall be nominated by two 
corporate members who are eligible to vote at the AGM at which the election is due to take place, as the persons 
who propose and second the nominee.  The written consent of the nominee in the form of an affidavit must be 
produced by the persons who propose and second, if the nominee is not present at the AGM at the time of voting.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
16A
4. Where only one candidate is duly nominated for each post of office-bearer, and there are not more than twelve 
nominations for posts of other members of the council, the pro-tem chairman shall declare such candidates duly 
elected to the respective posts.
5. When there are no nominations for any post of office-bearer, or the number of nominations for the posts of other 
members of the Council is less than twelve, the Council at its first meeting will fill such vacancies. 
6. If there is any contest, the candidate shall be elected by the corporate members present, by a majority, at the 
Annual General Meeting, by either a show of hands or secret ballot, as decided by the election Panel. the elec-
tion Panel shall count the votes and declare as duly elected, those with a majority of votes as office-bearers and 
other members of council as the case may be, and convey such results to the Pro-tem chairman. the Pro-tem 
chairman shall then announce the results to the general membership.
 
APPENDIX B 1: (Rules 12.1, 12.5 and 12.9) CRITERIA FOR MEMBERSHIP AND PROFESSIONAL  
QUALIFICATIONS
1.0 Qualifications required for corporate membership of the Institute:
1.1 felloW
every candidate for transfer to the grade of fellow should satisfy the council that he/she;
 (a) has been a Member of the Institute of environmental Professionals Sri lanka (IePSl) for a continuous 
period of not less than ten years;
 (b) has been engaged for a period of not less than ten years in the practice in a position of responsibility as 
a corporate member and has made a contribution acceptable to the council, adequate credit being given 
to professional experience gained after corporate membership,  publication of research papers/ patents/ 
conducting programs  on topics related to the environmental field, carried out after Corporate membership;
 (c) is a Chartered Environmental Professional having more than five years professional qualifications and 
experience superior to the requirement for charter
 (d) has not been found guilty of reprimand or suspension by the council
 (e) has been actively engaged in activities of the IePSl
1.2 MeMber
every candidate for admission to the grade of Member should possess any one of the following:
 a) A first Degree of not less than three full-time academic years or equivalent part-time duration from a rec-
ognized University or equivalent institution in biological and physical sciences, geography, agriculture, 
engineering, built environment, environment management, or any other relevant discipline which includes 
a sufficient environment-related component within the curriculum, as judged by the Council, and a mini-
mum five years of experience gained in the functional areas of environmental practice after obtaining such 
qualifications.
 b) A first Degree of not less than three full-time academic years or equivalent part-time duration from a 
recognized University or equivalent institution in any discipline, with a Post Graduate Degree in the field 
of environment and minimum three years of experience gained in the functional areas of environmental 
practice after obtaining such postgraduate qualifications.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
17A
c) A first Degree of not less than three full-time academic years or equivalent part-time duration from a rec-
ognized University or equivalent institution in any discipline, with a Post Graduate Diploma in the field
of environment, and minimum four years of experience gained in the functional areas of environmental
practice after obtaining such postgraduate qualifications.
d) A first Degree or professional qualification of not less than three full-time academic years or equivalent
part-time duration from a recognized University or equivalent institution and minimum ten years of
full-time experience gained in the functional areas of environmental practice after obtaining such
qualifications with proof for verifying the same.
2.0
 Qualifications required for non-corporate membership of the Institute.
2.1 ho NorAry felloW
Honorary Fellows shall be elected by the Council in recognition of their significant national and/or international 
contribution in the practice or teaching of an environment related discipline, provided, however, that the council 
shall not admit more than one honorary fellow in each year. the council will not be considering the eligibility 
criteria for corporate membership of IePSl in the election of honorary fellows.
2.2 ho NorAry MeMber
Honorary Members shall be elected by the Council in recognition of their significant accomplishments in the 
practice or teaching of an environment related discipline, provided, however, that the council shall not admit 
more than one honorary Member in each year. the council will not be considering the eligibility criteria for 
corporate membership of IePSl in the election of honorary Members.
2.3 ASSocIAte MeMber
every candidate for admission to the grade of Associate Member should possess: 
a) A first Degree of not less than three full-time academic years or equivalent part-time duration from a rec-
ognized University or equivalent institution in biological and physical sciences, geography, agriculture,
engineering, built environment, environment management or any other relevant discipline which includes
a sufficient environment-related component within the curriculum, as judged by the Council,
b) A first Degree of not less than three full-time academic years or equivalent part-time duration from a rec-
ognized University or equivalent institution in any discipline, with a Post Graduate Degree in the field of
environment,
c) A first Degree of not less than three full-time academic years or equivalent part-time duration from a rec-
ognized University or equivalent institution in any other discipline, with a Post Graduate Diploma in the
field of environment,
d) A first Degree or professional qualification of not less than three full-time academic years or equivalent
part-time duration from a recognized University or equivalent institution and minimum five years of
full-time experience gained in the functional areas of environmental practice after obtaining such
qualifications with proof for verifying the same.
2.4
 StudeNt MeMber
Every candidate for admission to the grade of Student should be following a first-Degree course in biological 
and physical sciences, geography, agriculture, engineering, built environment and environment management, or 
any other relevant discipline which includes a sufficient environment-related component within the curriculum, 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
18A
as judged by the council, on successful completion of which he/she would be eligible for Associate membership 
of the Institute.
3.0 Qualifications required for Chartered Environmental Professionals of the Institute
3.1  chArtered eNvIroNMeNtAl ProfeSSIoNAlS
every candidate for admission to the grade of chartered environmental Professional should satisfy the council that he/she-
(a) Is a current (paid up) corporate member of the Institute of environmental Professionals, Sri lanka (IePSl),
(b) has been a member of IePSl for a minimum of 3 years,
(c) Has satisfied the Panel of Examiners of his/her Professional Competence at the Professional Review,
(d) has been accepted by the membership as a person of good standing and not deemed unsuitable for the 
award of the charter, by virtue of unprofessional or unethical conduct in the execution of duties as an 
environmental Professional of high caliber.
APPENDIX B 2: (Rules 12.6 and 12.10) PROCEDURE FOR APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
1.0 Procedure for Application to become a Member, Associate Member or Student Member
To become a Member, Associate Member or Student Member of the Institute, applicants should send their duly filled 
applications together with certified copies of the educational certificates and transcripts and employment / service 
certificates and application processing fees to the IEPSL Secretariat.
Applications received will be evaluated by the membership committee and their recommendations will be submitted 
to the council for approval at the next council meeting. the secretariat of the institute shall inform the decision of the 
council to respective candidates.   
2.0 Procedure for Application to become a Fellow 
A corporate member who satisfies the required qualifications as given in Appendix B1 Section 1.1, may apply to  
become a fellow of IePSl by submitting a letter of request along with a report on the superior experience he/she has 
gained after becoming a chartered environmental Professional, continuous Professional development undergone, 
and contributions he/she has made to the field he/she is practicing as an Environmental Professional and to the IEPSL.     
APPENDIX C: THE PROCEDURE FOR AWARD OF CHARTERED ENVIRONMENTAL PROFESSIONAL 
 t o become a chartered environmental Professional, an individual must be a current member of the Institute of envi-
ronmental Professionals, Sri Lanka, and demonstrate (through qualifications and experience) competence, knowledge 
and engagement in sustainable environmental management and development. Such demonstration will include a pro-
fessional review.
1.
Application for the Charter
Any candidate eligible to apply for award of the charter as per Appendix b1 Section 3.1 above may submit an Application 
on the prescribed form, along with the following documents:
• Two hard copies and a soft copy of a curriculum vitae to demonstrate that he/she meets the minimum
academic and experience requirements,

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
19A
 • Two hard copies and a soft copy of a report/review of not more than 6000 words (excluding references), 
which demonstrates the candidate’s development and achievement with reference to the key competences 
stipulated by the IePSl, as stated in Section 4 of this document. 
  o The Report shall be in two parts; the first part, of 2500 – 3000 words, shall include an account 
of the candidate’s career progression, in chronological order, showing the achievement of a 
level of professional competence in his/her own professional field. 
  o the second part, which shall also contain 2500 – 3000 words, must include details of relevant 
projects or specified activities demonstrating competence relating to actual work for which the 
candidate has been personally responsible.  the activities may be taken from one project or a 
number of projects in which the candidate has been actively involved.
  o the report shall clearly cross reference to the key competences that are demonstrated, so that 
all required competences according to section 4 of this document, are covered.
  o All reports shall be validated by at least two mentors, sponsors or supervisors, who shall confirm 
that the report represents the candidate’s own work.
  o reports that are too long or too short will be returned to the candidates for amendments, before 
being subjected to assessment.
 • Receipt issued by the IEPSL Secretariat for the Application Processing Fee of Rs. 2500/- or the relevant 
fee specified by the council time to time, paid to the IEPSL Secretariat. 
2.  Professional Review Interview and Examination
the Professional review Interview and examination is held for those candidates who have applied for the award of the 
charter, and whose applications and reports have been reviewed and accepted by the Membership committee of the IePSl 
as suitable for calling for the Professional review Interview and examination. Any candidates whose applications are in-
complete or inadequate for this stage of the application process will be informed accordingly, and will be given a chance to 
resubmit their applications after the necessary amendment/s.
the Membership committee will submit the list of candidates whose applications are recommended for the Professional 
review and examination, with brief notes on eligibility and experience of each candidate, and their recommendation for the 
mode of conducting the Professional review. based on the Application and Supporting documents submitted by the can-
didate, the IePSl council may, on the recommendation of the Membership committee, decide to conduct the Professional 
review in order to assess the candidate’s competences in the key areas mentioned in Section 4 below, by one of the 3 modes 
of assessment shown below:
 a) An Interview and two Written examination papers, one of which is an examination paper on professional 
matters related to environment and sustainability and the other on logical communication of ideas through 
the written medium, social responsibilities and ethics. 
   or
 b) An Interview and one examination Paper, on logical communication of ideas through the written medium, 
social responsibilities and ethics.
   or
 c) An interview only.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
20A
The mode of assessment will be based on the following criteria. The relevance of the field of study and the experience as 
stated above will be determined by the council, based on the candidate’s submissions:
 • candidates with the basic eligibility requirements as given in Appendix b1 Section 3.1 of this document 
will be assessed according to the mode of assessment given in category a) above,
 •  Candidates with postgraduate qualifications at Master’s or higher level in a relevant field of study may be 
exempted from the written paper on professional matters related to environment and sustainability, and 
will thus be considered under category b) above,
 •   Candidates with postgraduate qualifications at Master’s or higher level in a relevant field of study and 
more than 12 years of relevant experience may be considered under category (c) above,
 • however, all candidates will be subjected to a structured interview, at which the Panel will verify the 
authenticity of the candidate’s submissions and assess the candidate’s knowledge and understanding, 
competence and engagement in sustainable environmental management and development, as set out in 
Section 4 of this document. It is recognized that each Candidate will have a unique engagement with the 
environment, dependent upon his or her job role, experience and/or qualifications, and the assessment will 
be mainly based on the training and experience of the candidate, as stated in their submissions.
the council will appoint the Panel of examiners for the Professional review Interview and examination for each candidate, 
on the recommendation of the Membership committee. the Panel will consist of a minimum of two Senior Members of the 
IEPSL, at least one of whom will be in the candidate’s area of professional specialization.
3. Decision to Award the Charter
Candidates who have satisfied the Panel of Examiners of their Professional Competence at the Professional Review will be 
proposed to the council for award of the charter. the names of candidates will be circulated among the general membership 
of the IePSl, who will be given the opportunity to make any representations to the Secretariat in writing, within one calendar 
month of the publishing of the proposed name, if any such candidate is deemed unsuitable for the award of the charter, by 
virtue of unprofessional or unethical conduct in the execution of duties as an environmental Professional of high calibre. 
In the event of receipt of any such written representations, the secretary will take action to inform the council and appoint 
a committee of enquiry to the allegations, and delay the award of the charter until the report of the committee of enquiry is 
received by the council.
After completion of one calendar month from the date of circulation of the names, the names of those candidates who have 
not been challenged, and any names that have been cleared by the committee of enquiry, will be recommended to the  
Council for award of the Charter, for approval. The decision of the council will be notified in writing to the candidates after 
the confirmation of the minutes of the Council at the next Council Meeting. 
the list of candidates who have not been successful at the Professional review will also be submitted to council with brief 
notes on reason for failure, and the reports of the Panels of examiners will be tabled at the council Meeting, for information 
of the council Members. the council may decide to allow the candidate to appear for all or parts of the Professional review 
Interview and examination, based on the report of the Panel of examiners. the council may decide to appoint the same 
Panel or a new Panel of Examiners for the unsuccessful candidate/s. These candidates will also be notified of the decision of 
the council with regard to their candidacy. 
Successful candidates will, on payment of the prescribed fee, be entitled to use the title chartered environmental Professional 
and the post nominal cenvP.
the candidates, whose applications have been rejected at any stage of the process or have been unsuccessful at the Profes-
sional review Interview and/or examinations, may appeal in writing to the President or Secretary, IePSl, giving all relevant 
information. 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
21A
4. Professional Competences
chartered environmental Professionals are expected to be environmental practitioners at the forefront of their profession, 
who can instil confidence in other professionals, government and governmental bodies and other professional bodies and 
the public, about their knowledge and competence in environmental protection, management and sustainability in their 
field or profession. Chartered Environmental Professionals are expected to demonstrate Legal credibility, enabling expert 
witness participation at a defined standard, and instil confidence among Regulatory bodies enabling them in specifying the 
cenvP designation in Acts of Parliament and regulations. While all environmental Professionals are dealing with elements 
of sustainable development and environmental protection and management in the execution of their duties, the diversity of 
core professions of the environmental professionals is reflected in the competences acquired by them through training and 
experiences in their respective disciplines. thus their Professional competences needs to be assessed in such a manner that 
recognises equality of excellence across a wide range of environment disciplines.
the key competences that candidates for the charter will be assessed on are their abilities to:
A. use their knowledge and understanding of the environment to further the aims of sustainable development.
b. Analyse and evaluate problems from an environmental perspective and develop practical sustainable solutions
c. demonstrate leadership in sustainable management of the environment.
d. demonstrate effective interpersonal skills.
e. demonstrate a personal commitment to professional standards, recognising obligations to society, the profession 
and the environment.
The candidates are required to demonstrate the acquisition of the above five competences in their CV and Reports submitted 
with their application for the charter, and at the Professional review Interview and examination. 
5. Continuing Professional Development
It is important that the chartered environmental Professionals should continue to develop their professional abilities throughout 
their career. they must enhance their professional competence, up-date their knowledge in their respective discipline with 
new and emerging developments, and be aware of the current policies and anticipate future requirements in the local and 
global scenarios. thus, chartered environmental Professionals shall consider continuing Professional development (cPd) 
as an essential part of their Professional activities, and are encouraged to consider their CPD with reference to the five Key 
competences and subsets described above.
Recognizing the importance of CPD, the IEPSL introduced a mandatory requirement of 15 hours of relevant CPD in each 
year, the records of which shall be submitted by each chartered environmental Professional to the secretariat at the time of 
renewal of subscription for the charter. even though these records may not be checked or reviewed on a regular basis, the 
council reserves the right to check them and take action against any chartered environmental Professionals who do not 
abide by this mandatory cPd requirement without notice, if the necessity arises.
 
APPENDIX D: CODE OF ETHICS OF IEPSL
1. Introduction 
• This Code of Ethics is intended to provide guidelines for members of the Institute of Environmental Professionals 
Sri lanka (IePSl). It provides a basis for evaluating their professional conduct and work from an ethical point of 
view.  by heeding this code, members of IePSl will help to preserve and enhance public trust in the discipline.
• It emphasizes the obligations of members to society and to the profession.  These obligations provide the  
organizational structure to these guidelines. 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
22A
2. Goal
to maintain high standards of professionalism by the members of IePSl, in order to enhance and improve environmental 
protection, conservation and management capacity and practices in Sri lanka. 
3. Objectives
environmental professionals are expected:
• to conduct their professional lives and activities in an ethical manner. 
• to exhibit the highest standards of honesty and integrity.    
• to be dedicated to the protection, conservation and sound management of natural  resources 
• to perform under a standard of professional behavior that conforms to the highest principles of ethical conduct.
4. Principles
A commitment to ethical professional conduct is expected of every member of the IePSl. each member shall;
• Recognize and attempt to reconcile societal and individual needs for natural and cultural resources with  
responsibility. 
• Ensure that the uses of natural resources are fair, equitable and sustainable and takes into account,  the needs of 
a diverse stakeholder group. 
• Promote and develop policies, strategies, plans, activities and projects that achieve complementarity and mutual 
support between natural and man-made, and present and future components of the environment.
• advance the science and practice of environmental protection, conservation and management for the benefit of 
society  
• Establish and maintain for public benefit, appropriate standards of competence and conduct.
• Comply with environmental legislative enactments, regulations and standards;
• Undertake and accept responsibility for professional assignments only when adequately qualified and experienced 
enough to do so;
• Provide professional opinions based on adequate knowledge derived from good science, thoughtful deliberations 
and honest conviction;
• Maintain competence through continuing professional development; 
• Act with fairness, courtesy and good faith; give credit where due; and accept/give constructive, honest, and fair 
professional comments and opinions;
• Conduct oneself honorably, responsibly, ethically, and lawfully, with objectivity and integrity, so as to enhance 
the honor and reputation of the profession.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.12.2021
23A
• A void conflicts of interest and situations that may imply a conflict of interest.
• Give credit for intellectual property and honor property rights.
• Abstain from deceptive acts such as fabricating, falsifying, suppressing, or deliberately misrepresenting research
findings, or otherwise committing scientific fraud.
• Maintain a high standard of professional behavior which will serve as an example to others.
• Never engage in corrupt practices.
• Strive to accurately communicate scientific understanding and knowledge, and avoid and discourage dissemination
of erroneous, biased, or exaggerated statements.
eoG 12 - 0216
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.