

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
DEMUTUALIZATION  OF  THE  COLOMBO
STOCK  EXCHANGE
————————
————————
Presented by the Prime Minister and Minister of National Policies and
Economic Affairs on 19th of February, 2018
(Published in the Gazette on February 01, 2018)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
A
BILL
Price : Rs. 28.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
2-2dp
2-
————————
[Bill No. 232]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
to provide for the demutualization of the Colombo Stock Exchange by the
conversion of the Colombo Stock Exchange which is a company limited
by guarantee,  to a company limited by shares; and  to provide for matters
 connected therewith or incidental thereto.

<!-- page 2 -->

1Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
Short title
and date of
operation.
5
10
15
20
L.D.—O. 26/2010.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE DEMUTUALIZATION OF THE COLOMBO STOCK
EXCHANGE BY THE CONVERSION OF THE COLOMBO STOCK EXCHANGE
WHICH IS A COMPANY LIMITED BY GUARANTEE, TO A COMPANY LIMITED
BY SHARES; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Demutualization of the
Colombo Stock Exchange Act, No.       of 2018 and shall
come into operation, on such date appointed by the Minister
(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”) by order
published in the Gazatte.
2. The objective of this Act shall be to demutualize
the Colombo Stock Exchange which is a company limited
by guarantee and lincensed as a stock exchange under the
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 36 of 1987 by conversion in terms of the provisions
of this Act to a company limited by shares.
3. (1) The Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”)
established by the Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987 shall submit the following to
the Minister for the demutualization of the Colombo Stock
Exchange, within nine months of the appointed date:—
(a) the proposed articles of association of the
Demutualized Stock Exchange;
(b) the names of persons to be appointed as Directors
of the Demutualized Stock Exchange in terms of
subsection (2) of section 14 of this Act; and
Objective of
the Act.
Procedure in
relation to
conversion.
2—PL 010633—510 (02/2018)

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
(c) the names of the initial shareholders of the
Demutualized Stock Exchange.
(2) The Minister shall within twelve months from the
appointed date cause to be served on the Registrar General
of Companies (hereinafter referred to as the “Registrar”) the
documents specified in subsection (1) and direct the Registrar
to register the Colombo Stock Exchange as a company
limited by shares.
4. (1) Upon receipt of the directive of the Minister
together with the documents specified under subsection (1)
of section 3, the Registrar shall forthwith register the
Colombo Stock Exchange as a company limited by shares
and issue a certificate to that effect.
(2) The date on which the Demutualized Stock Exchange
is registered shall hereinafter in this Act be referred to as the
“date of Conversion”.
5. (1) Upon registration of the Demutualized Stock
Exchange under section 4, the Registrar shall forthwith
inform the Minister in writing of the fact of such registration.
(2) The Minister shall on receipt of the information under
subsection (1) by notice published in the Gazette inform the
public that with effect from the date of conversion, the
Colombo Stock Exchange has been converted to a company
limited by shares.
6. (1) The Board of Directors of the Demutualized Stock
Exchange shall determine the number of shares to be issued
of the Demutualized Stock Exchange and value of the
reserves to be converted to share capital for such purpose
within a period of one month from the date of conversion.
(2) The members and the Capital Market Development
Fund established under section 15 of this Act on the
appointed date shall under this Act become entitled to be
Registration
of the
Demutualized
Stock
Exchange.
Registrar to
notify the
registration
to the
Minister.
Allocation of
shares to be
issued.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
allocated sixty per centum and forty per centum respectively
of the shares to be issued of the Demutualized Stock
Exchange in terms of subsection (1).
7. (1) The Demutualized Stock Exchange shall issue a
maximum of forty per centum of the shares to be issued of
the Demutualized Stock Exchange immediately upon the
determination made in terms of section 6 to members subject
to the limitation on shares to be issued to individual members
as specified in section 8.
(2) The members shall only be entitled to the proceeds of
sale of the balance shares to be issued of the Demutualized
Stock Exhange allocated to members in terms of section 6
and issued in terms of subsection (1).
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 , any member may instruct
the Demutualized Stock Exchange to issue shares in respect
of the individual allocation of the shares to be issued to
such member in terms of subsection (2), in part or in full, to
persons specifed by such member in writing addressed to
the Demutualized Stock Exchange, at a price and date
specified by such member which date shall be a date not
later than the date on which the Commission approves the
initial public offer of the Demutualized Stock Exchange:
Provided if any member fails to comply with the
provisions of subsection (3), the Demutualized Stock
Exchange shall issue and dispose of shares, allocated but
not issued to members, at the initial public offer of the
Demutualized Stock Exchange.
(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, the shares allocated to
members and not subscribed to in the initial public offer,
shall be issued by the Demutualized Stock Exchange on the
30
Treatment of
the allocation
of shares to
be issued.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
instructions of the relevant members to persons specified by
such members on such date and at such price specified by
such members.
(5) The Demutualized Stock Exchange shall remit the
proceeds of any sale made in terms of subsections (3) and (4)
to the respective member.
(6) The capital Market Development Fund shall only be
entitled to the proceeds of the sale in respect of forty per
centum of the shares to be issued of the Demutualized Stock
Exchange allocated to the Capital Market Development
Fund.
(7) Notwihtstanding anything to the contrary in the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, the Capital Market
Development Fund shall instruct the Demutualized Stock
Exchange to issue shares in respect of the forty per centum
of the shares to be issued of the Demutualized Stock
Exchange in terms of section 6 in part or in full, at the initial
public offer of the Demutualized Stock Exchange or to
persons specified by the Capital Market Development Fund
and on such date and at such price specified by the Capital
Market Development Fund.
(8) The Demutualized Stock Exchange shall remit the
proceeds of any sale made in terms of subscetion (6) to the
Capital Market Development Fund.
(9) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, the Demutualized Stock
Exchange shall give notice to the Registrar in respect of the
following within twenty one working days from the date of
issuance, in the form prescribed:—
(a) the number of shares issued;
(b) the value of the shares; and
(c) the amount of the stated capital of the Company
following the issue of shares.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
8. (1) The members may decide on the allocation of the
sixty per centum  of the shares to be issued of the
Demutualized Stock Exchange among the members in terms
of section 6, within three months from the appointed date
subject to a maximum ceiling of five per centum for each
individual member in respect of the shares to be issued to
such member.
(2) Where members fail to agree on the allocation of the
individual shareholding, each member shall be entitled to
an equal proportion of the shares allocated to members of
the Demutualized Stock Exchange, in accordance with
section 6 subject to a maximum ceiling of five per centum
for each individual member in respect of the shares to be
issued to such member.
9. A member may renounce the allocation of shares made
to such member within a period of two months from the date
of such allocation and such allocation of shares shall be
issued and sold by the Demutualized Stock Exchange at the
initial public offer of the Demutualized Stock Exchange
and the proceeds of such sale shall be remitted to the Capital
Market Development Fund established under section 15.
10. (1) The Minister shall constitute a Nomination Panel
consisting of the following persons within two months from
the appointed date to recommend persons to serve as
members of the Board of Directors of the Demutualized Stock
Exchange:—
(a) Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
appointed under section 12 of the Monetary Law
Act, No. 58 of 1949;
(b) Chairman of the University Grants Commission
appointed under section 4 of the Universities Act,
No. 16 of 1978;
(c) Director General of Insurance Regulatory
Commission of Sri Lanka appointed under section
9 of the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act,
No. 43 of 2000;
Allocation of
shares on the
individual
members.
`
30
Treatment of
shares
renounced
by members.
Constitution
of the
Nomination
Panel.
35

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
(d) Director General of the Commission appointed
under section 42 of Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987; and
(e) A member of the Board of Directors of the Colombo
Stock Exchange or the Demutualized Stock
Exchange as the case may be as determined by the
Board of Directors.
(2) The Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka shall
be the Chairman of the Nomination Panel and the Director
General of the Commission shall be the Secretary of the
Nomination Panel.
(3) The Nomination Panel shall cease to function when
the Demutualized Stock Exchange becomes a listed public
company.
11. (1) The quorum for a meeting of the Nomination
Panel shall be three members.
(2) The procedure applicable inter alia , for the
nomination, evaluation, selection of a member of the Board
of Directors of the Demutualized Stock Exchange and the
removal of such member shall be as prescribed.
(3) The Nomination Panel shall within three months of
the constitution of such panel recommend the names of
persons to the Commission to serve on the Board of Directors
in accordance with the prescribed procedure, for a period of
three years.
12. (1) The Commission may on receipt of the
recommendations of the Nomination Panel grant approval
for the appointment of persons to the Board of Directors of
the Demutualized Stock Exchange taking into consideration
the criteria of selection.
(2) Where the Commission refuses to grant approval for
reasons assigned, it shall communicate such reasons to the
Nomination Panel.
Quorum and
procedure to
be adopted
by the
Nomination
panel.
Approval of
the names of
the Board of
Directors by
the
Commission.
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
13. The Minister shall reconvene the Nomination Panel
in the event—
(a) of vacation of office of a Director by reason of death,
resignation or removal from office prior to the
expiry of his term of office or where the Commission
refuses to grant approval, in order to recommend a
suitable person to fill such vacancy; or
(b) The Demutualized Stock Exchange remains
unlisted at the expiry of the term of office of the
Board of Directors, in order to reconstitute the Board
of Directors of the Demutualized Stock Exchange
for a further period not exceeding three years in
respect of each term.
14. (1) The Board of Directors of the Colombo Stock
Exchange shall cease to hold office on the date of conversion.
(2) The persons approved by the Commission on the
recommendation of the Nomination Panel to serve on the
Board of Directors of the Demutualized Stock Exchange in
terms of section 12 shall be deemed to have been appointed
from the date of conversion and such person shall hold office
from such date for a period of three years and be eligible to
be re-appointed.
(3) The members of the Board of Directors of the
Demutualized Stock Exchange appointed under subsection
(2) shall consist of seven persons comprising of—
(a) not more than three persons representing stock
brokers; and
(b) not less than four persons appointed as independent
directors.
Instances in
which the
Nomination
Panel is to be
reconvened.
Board of
Directors of
the
Demutualized
Stock
Exchange.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
(4) The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Demutualized Stock Excahnge shall be elected by the Board
of Directors from amongst the Independent Directors.
15. (1) The Commission shall establish the Capital
Market Development Fund within six months from the
appointed date to further public interest.
(2) The Capital Market Development Fund shall be
incorporated under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 as a
company limited by guarantee and the members of such
company shall be the Colombo Stock Exchange or the
Demutualized Stock Exchange as the case may be and the
Commission.
(3) The Capital Market Development Fund shall utilize
the funds remitted to it in terms of sections 7 and 9 for the
purposes of furthering public interest through—
(a) the development of capital market of Sri Lanka;
(b) the promotion of investor education;
(c) the improvement of capital market infrastructure;
and
(d) the improvement of investor access and
participation in the capital market.
(4) The Board of Directors of the company incorporated
in terms of subsection (2) shall be:—
(a) the Chief Executive Officer of the Demutualized
Stock Exchange;
(b) the Director General of the Commission; and
(c) the nominee of the Chairman of the Commission
with the concurrence of the Chairman of the
Colombo Stock Exchange.
Establishment
of the Capital
Market
Development
Fund.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
5
10
15
20
25
16. The Board of Directors of the Demutualized Stock
Exchange shall take necessary action to list the
Demutualized Stock Exchange on its own exchange with
the approval of the Commission within a period of three
years from the date of conversion unless otherwise specified
in writing by the Commission.
17. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, the Demutualized Stock
Exchange shall not make payment of a dividend to its
hareholders or a further issue of shares prior to listing of the
Demutualized Stock Exchange.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, any benefit other than voting
rights that accrues to shareholders as a result of a payment of
dividends or a further issue of shares after listing, shall be
paid or allocated as the case may be by the Demutualized
Stock Exchange, in respect of shares allocated and not issued
in terms of section 6.
(3) The Demutualized Stock Exchange shall not lend or
borrow other than in the ordinary course of business or as
otherwise approved by the Commission prior to listing.
18. Upon the Registration of the Demutualized Stock
Exchange—
(a) every company listed on the Colombo Stock
Exchange, limited by guarantee shall be deemed to
be a company, listed on the Demutualized Stock
Exchange; and
(b) every subsidiary company of  the Colombo Stock
Exchange shall be deemed to be a subsidiary
company of the Demutualized Stock Exchange.
Listing of the
Demutualized
Stock
Exchange.
Distributions
and further
issues not to
be made before
listing.
30
Status of the
listed
companies and
subsidiary
companies
upon
Demutualization.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
19. Subject to any terms or conditions as may be
imposed by the Commission, the licence granted to the
Colombo Stock Exchange limited by guarantee to function
as a Stock Exchange under the provisions of the Securities
and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987
shall with effect from the date of conversion be deemed to
be a licence granted to the Demutualized Stock Exchange
to function as a Stock Exchange until expiry of such licence.
20. All property rights, interests and liabilities of the
Colombo Stock Exchange limited by guarantee subsisting
as at the date of conversion shall remain as property rights,
interests and liabilities of the Demutualized Stock Exchange.
21. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of
which regulations are required by this Act to be made.
(2)  Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(3)  Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall as
soon as convenient after its publiction in the Gazette be
brought before Parliament for approval and any regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of such disapproval but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
(4)  The Notification of the date on which any regulation
is deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
5
10
15
20
25
Licence
granted to
the Colombo
Stock
Exchange to
be deemed to
be a licence
granted to
the
Demutualized
Stock
Exchange.
Transfer of
property
rights and
liabilities.
Regulations.

<!-- page 12 -->

Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
11
22. (1) All contracts and agreements entered into, or
any document signed or issued by or with, the Colombo
Stock Exchange and which are subsisting on the day
preceding the date of conversion, shall be deemed with effect
from the date of conversion to be contracts and agreements
entered into, documents signed or issued by or with the
Demutualized Stock Exchange.
(2) All actions, proceedings or prosecutions instituted by
or against the Colombo Stock Exchange and which are
pending on the day preceding the date of conversion, shall
be deemed with effect from the date of conversion to be
actions, proceedings or prosecutions instituted by, or
against, the Demutualized Stock Exchange, as the case may
be, and may be continued accordingly.
(3)  All decrees and awards entered or made by any Court
or Tribunal in any action or proceeding instituted by, or
against the Colombo Stock Exchange and which remain
unsatisfied on the day preceding the date of conversion shall
be deemed with effect from the date of conversion to be
decrees or awards entered or made for or against the
Demutualized Stock Exchange, as the case may be and may
be enforced accordingly.
(4) All documents, guidelines and rules issued by the
Colombo Stock Exchange to any person or institution and
subsisting on the day preceding the date of conversion, shall
be deemed with effect from the date of conversion, to be
documents, guidelines and rules issued by the Demutualized
Stock Exchange and shall be applicable to the respective
persons or institutions accordingly.
(5)  All documents, directives and rules issued by the
Commission to the Colombo Stock Exchange and subsisting
on the day preceding the date of conversion, shall be deemed
with effect from the date of conversion to be documents
directives and rules issued by the  Commission to the
Demutualized Stock Exchange.
5
10
15
20
25
Savings.
30
35

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
(6) All assets and liabilities of the Stock Exchange
which are subsisting on the day preceding the date of
conversion shall, be deemed with effect from the date of
conversion, to be the assets and liabilities of the
Demutualized Stock Exchange.
(7)  All officers and other members of the staff employed
by the Colombo Stock Exchange on the day preceding the
date of conversion, shall be deemed to be employed by the
Demutualized Stock Exchange with effect from the date of
conversion on such terms and conditions as are not less
favorable than the terms and conditions which were
applicable to them on the day preceding the date of
conversion.
(8)   All rights of access to facilities of the Colombo Stock
Exchange vested in its members and trading members shall
continue under the Demutualized Stock Exchange.
23. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“company limited by shares” means a limited
liability Company other than a private
company incorporated under the Companies
Act, No. 7 of 2007;
“company limited by guarantee” means a
company incorporated as a guarantee
company under the Companies Act, No. 7 of
2007;
“Colombo Stock Exchange” means the Colombo
Stock Exchange limited by guarantee
incorporated under the Companies Act, No.
7 of 2007;
“Demutualized Stock Exchange” means the
Colombo Stock Exchange limited by shares
registered by the Registrar General of
Companies in terms of subsection (1) of
section 4;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Interpretation.

<!-- page 14 -->

Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
13
“Independent Director” means a person other than
a person directly or indirectly connected to a
member or trading member of the Colombo
Stock Exchange or any other individual
having a relationship or circumstance that
could materially interfere with the exercise
of a Director’s independent judgment in
carrying out the responsibility of such
Director;
“Listed Public Company” has the same meaning
given in the Securities and Exchange
Commission of          Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of
1987;
“member” means a member of the Colombo Stock
Exchange having voting rights;
“Minister” means the Minister to whom the
implementation of the provisions of this Act
is assigned;
“property” means any movable or immovable
property and includes—
(a) any interest, easement or right, whether
equitable or legal, title, claim, chose-
in-action, power or privilege, whether
present or future, vested or contingent,
or which is otherwise of value;
(b) any conveyance executed for
conveying, assigning, appointing,
surrendering or otherwise transferring or
disposing of immovable property, of
which the person executing the
conveyance is proprietor, possessed or
entitled to a contingent right either for
the whole interest or for any part of the
interest;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
(c) any negotiable instrument, including
any bank note, bearer note, treasury bill,
dividend, warrant, bill of exchange,
promissory note, cheque and negotiable
certificate of deposit;
(d) any mortgage or charge, whether legal
or equitable, guarantee, lien or pledge,
whether actual or constructive, letter of
hypothecation or trust receipt,
indemnity, undertaking or other means
of securing payment or discharge of a
debt or liability, whether present or
future, vested or contingent; or
(e) securities and any other tangible or
intangible property;
“Registrar General of Companies” means Registrar
General of Companies appointed under the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 or any other
officer performing under that Act, the duty of
the Registrar General of Companies;
“Reserves” include the accumulated fund and
retained earnings of the Colombo Stock
Exchange.
24. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
25

<!-- page 16 -->

Demutualization of the Colombo
Stock Exchange
15
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING