

<!-- page 1 -->

461 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
461
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 464
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 467
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st  June, 2007, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 18th May, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,499 _ 2007  ˜æ˘œ 25  Éæ¾ł  ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .05.25
No. 1,499 – FRIDAY ,  MAY 25, 2007
N.B.— Part II and Part III of the Gazette No. 1,498 of 18.05.2007 were not published.
Quarterly statement of books for January-March 2002 has been published in Part V of this Gazette

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
462
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

463 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
464
Posts - Vacant
CEYLON -   GERMAN    TECHNICAL    TRAINING   INSTITUTE   -   MORATUWA
01. Dy. Director/Dy. Principal (Administration) - Grade II
Qualifications
A Special degree from a recognized university in Business Management/Public Administration/Human Resources Management.
 and
 A post graduate degree on diploma in the relevant field.
 and
05 years experience in a managerial position
                  or
A degree in Management from a recognized university with 5 years Service in CGTTI as a Registrar/Human Resource Manager.
Salary : 20490 = 325 x 10 + 475 x 5
02. Chief Engineer (Automobile Technology) - Grade III
Qualifications
The ideal candidate for the post should be an ;
Engineer with a degree from a recognized university in Mechanical Engineering with 5 years experience in the relevant field.
                  or
 NDT or equivalent academic qualification in Mechanical Engineering with 10 years experience in the relevant field.
                  or
CGTTI full - time certificate in Automobile Technology with special training or professional qualifications with 15 years experince
in the relevant field.
Experience at a similar  V ocational Training Institution is and added qualification.
Salary - 17695 = 325 x 10 + 400 x 5
Other Conditions Applicable to the Post
01. Applicant must be citizens of Sri Lanka.
02. Applicant must be conform to the official language policy of the Government and have good communication skills (both oral and
written) in English and Sinhala/Tamil
03. Age Limit : Not more than 45 years of age on the closing date of applications (upper age limit does not apply to candidates from
Government or Semi Government Services).
04. Recruitment will be on the basis of the performance at the Interview.
05. Applications from Government or Semi-Government Institutions should forward their applications through the respective Heads
of Organizations.
06. Salaries are at present tax free with an Institutional contribution of 12% to E. P. F. and 3% to E. T. F. the interim allowance
approved by the Government will be paid.
07. Applicant who posses the requisite qualifications should forward their application giving full Bio-data together with copies of
Educational/Professional qualifications and details of work Experience.
08. Applicant should forward names of two non-related referees with their contact Telephone numbers and Addresses.
09. All application should be sent by registered post to reach the address given below on or before 08.06.2007 The post applied for
should be stated clearly on the left-hand corner of the envelope.
10. Application not conforming to these requirements will be rejected.
Director/Principal.
Ceylon- German Technical Training Institute,
582, Galle Road,
Mt. Lavinia (Moratuwa).
05-378

<!-- page 5 -->

465 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
SRI LANKA   POLICE   DEPARTMENT
Post of Police Constable (Special Task Force)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Police Constable, in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below, should be sent to Director (Recruitment)
Recruiting Office, 2nd Floor, New Secretariat Building, Colombo -
01. The applications should be sent by registered post to the above
mentioned address to reach on or before 2007.08.25 and the top left
hand corner of the envelop enclosing applications should be marked
“Post of Police Constable (Special Task Force”) Delayed applications
will be rejected and no applications will be issued by the Sri Lanka
Police Department.
3. Salary Scale :
Police Constable (Special Task  Force)
Rs.16,650 - 7 x 1440 - 27 x 1800 - 2,25,240
(a) All uniforms will be provided free of charge
(b) Facilities to improve skills and telents in sports
(c) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be granted
as rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
4. Basic Qualifications
(a) Police Constable (Special Task Force)
Age Limit - The age should be between 18 and 25 years as at
closing date as per the Gazette Notifications.
Educational Qualifications :
Police Constable (Special Task Force)
Should have passed 6 subjects at one sitting including
Mathematics and medium language at the G. C. E. (O.L)
Examination.
Note 01. According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the number of subjects
passed at G. C. E. (O/L) both passes in science subjects number 41
and 44 will be treated as one subject and both passes in Mathematics
number 42 and 45 will be treated as one subject. (They can’t be
considered as four separate subjects taking into account the number
of subjects passed.)
Note 02. Failure in the Technical subject at Written Test of G. C.
E. (O/L) examination will be considered as failure in the same subject
although a pass has been obtained for the same in the Practical Test.
Note 03. Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and Sinhala
have not been included in the stream of G. C. E. (O/L), passes in any
of these subjects will not be computed as a pass in the G. C. E.
(O/L) examination.
Physical requirements :
Police Constable (Special Task Force)
Height 5 feet 04 inches (minimum)
Chest 30 inches (deflated)
Note : Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated qualifications will be
eligible at the discretion of Inspector General of Police provided
they have skills in sports or have achieved best performance in
sports at national level or they have earned reputation for Sri Lanka
by participating in an international competition.
(d) Visual requirements.
Vision should not be less than 6/12 with each eye. If the
vision is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18 with the other eye will be
accepted. Colour vision should be normal. Applicants
wearing spectacles or contact lenses will not be eligible.
(e) Other qualifications
(i) Applicants should be unmarried
(Those who are divorced should be treated as married)
This condition will not be applicable for officers who
presently serve in the Police Department and who have
fulfilled the qualifications.
(ii)Applicants should get through the test of basic
qualification, Endurance Test and Written Test
conducted by the Police Department before they attend
the final selection board. The written test consists of
two papers.
(i) Question paper on construction of  sentences
Duration - 45 Minutes
(ii) Question paper general knowledge and Intelligence
test Duration - 01 Hour
(iii) Successful applicants should pass a medical examination
before they are enlisted. Applicants who are found as
disqualified for the Police service will be rejected.
5. Terms of Engagement :-
(i) This Post is permanent. Appointees come within the scope
of the Contributory Pension Fund Scheme.
6. Conditions of service
(i) This appointement is subject to a period of probation for
three years
(ii)The selected applicants will be required to comply with any
rules already made or may hereafter be made to give effect to
the language policy of the government.
(iii)They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishment Code V olume I and II, Police Disciplinary
Code and any other Orders that may be issued by the
Inspector General of Police or by the Government from
time to time.
(iv)Every officer will be required to pass the prescribed
Departmental Tests. Those who fail to pass the prescribed
test or are found to be unfit for Police duties will be liable for
removal from the Police service.
(v) Basic training will be 01 year at the Sri Lanka Police College
and the regional training will be 02 years.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
466
(vi) The appointees will not be permitted to marry until they
are confirmed in their posts. However, in terms of the
notification 41 of the Police Gazette II dated 28th February
1973, the officers who have completed a minimum period of
two years satisfactory service could get married on the
permission granted by the Inspector General of Police, under
special circumstances.
(vii)Application on being appointed training should serve a
probationary period of three years in the Police Department
and if they wish to resign from service before their probation
is over, they should sign an agreement of consent to the
effect that they are willing to pay at the time of tendering
their resignation, any amount which was incurred on
uniforms etc., due by the Director of Police Training College.
The acceptance of resignation should conform to the Section
4 Chapter 5 of V olume 1 of the Establishment Code 1985.
(viii)Probationary Police Constable (Special Task Force)
immediately after they have commenced training at the Police
Training College should affirm/swear that they adhere to the
Police Disciplinary Code in terms of the I. G. P. Circular
No.1693/2003. Sub Inspector of Police who have been
confirmed  in the Post will have opportunities for promotions
according to the approved scheme of promotion of the police
Department.
(ix)They should soon after commencing the training at Police
College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to the Public Service,
in terms of the I. G. P’s Circular No. 1804/2004.
(x) Police Constable (Special Task Force) will have the scope
for promotions in terms of the approved scheme of
promotions of the Police Department.
7. (i)  Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable to
appointment to posts in the Police service published in the
Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette.
(ii)Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular No.15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
8. Applicants should annex copies of following documents to their
application. (Originals must not be forwarded).
(i) Birth Certificate :
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (Obtained from persons
who are not related);
(iii)Certificates in support of educational qualifications;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or other
extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates of service experience, (if available);
(vi) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card.
9. (a) Applications from applicants who are already in the Public
service/services must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective departments and must be accompanied by a
certificate stating that the officers can be released, if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11 x 8 in size and post them, together
with the  copies of certificates called for to the address given
in paragraph 2 and under no circumstances should
applications be handed over personally to any officer in the
department.
10. Applications, which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note : No Travelling or other expenses will be paid to applicants
who are summoned for the test and interview.
V
ICTOR  PERERA ,
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
POLICE  DEPARTMENT
THE POST OF POLICE CONSTABLE (SPECIAL TASK
FORCE)
01. (a) Name in full (In block letters) :———.
(As stated in the applicant’s Birth Certificate) :———.
(b) Name with initials :———.
(c) Sex :———.
02. National Identity Card No :———.
03. Father’s Name in Full :———.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :———.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs to :———.
05. (a) Present address :———.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs to :—.
(c) Permanent Address :———.
(d) Police station and the electorate to which the permanent
address belongs to :———.
06. (a) Nationality :———.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration (if by
registration attach copies of the certificate) :———.
if you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth of. :—.
(i) Applicant :———.
(ii)Applicant’s Father :———.
(iii)Applicant’s Paternal grandfather :———.
(iv) Applicant’s peternal great grandfather :———.
07. Age : (as on the closing date of application given in the
Gazette :———.
Years :———, Months :———, Days :———.
 (Copy of birth  certificate should be attached)

<!-- page 7 -->

467 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
08. Height : (Inches) :———. Chest. (Inches) :———.
09. Educational Qualifications (State Examinations passed and attach
copies of certificates) :———.
10. Whether married or single :———.
11. (i) Present employment :———.
(ii)Are you a members of any Armed Force :———.
12. Have you any special claims and/or Qualifications :———.
13. Give names and address to two non -related referees :———.
(i)  :———.
(ii)  :———.
14. (a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Police Service (if so,
give reference) :———.
(b) Have you served in the Police or in the Sri Lanka Reserve
Police before ? :———.
(If so, under what  circumstances did you leave the service?
Give details) :———.
15. (a) Are you serving in any of the Armed Services? (if so your
application must be submitted through the respective Service
Commander) :———.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Services? (if so, attach
copy of your Discharge Certificate) :———.
16. (a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed Services?
(If so, your application must be submitted through the
respective Service Commander) :———.
(b) Have you served as a V olunteer in any of the Armed Services?
(If so attach a copy/copies of your Discharge Certificate/
Certificates) :———.
17. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence? (if so, give
details) :———.
18. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence? (If so, give
details) :———.
19. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion, or convicted of any
offence? (If so, give details) :———.
I, hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my Knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable for
termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith (even
if I have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false.
————,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :———.
05-438
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
MINISTRY   OF    SPORTS    AND   PUBLIC    RECREATION
Diploma Course in Sports/conducted by the National Institute of Sports Science 2007
APPLICATIONS are invited from those between 18-35 years of age who wish to study the Course of Diploma in Sports to be conducted
in Sinhala medium by the National Institute of Sports Science of the Ministry of Sports and Public Recreation.
01. Note : (i) The age limit is not relevant to those who are already in Public Service.
(ii)Applications which are  not completed properly will be rejected.
02. Educational and Other Qualifications :-
2.1 Should have passed 6 subjects at the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination or its equivalent (obtained at not more than two
sittings) provided that two of the six passes should by Sinhala or Tamil Language and arithmetic or Mathematics ; and
(a) Has successfully completed a course of at least six months duration at a recognized Government Institution in Sports
or Physical Education ;
                                           or
(b) One year service as a Sports Officer attached to the Ministry of Sports and Public Recreation or Provincial Councils
or special achievements in sports with at least 5 years service as a Teacher of Sports in Government School or as an
Instructor/Instructress in sports of a Local Government Institution ; or
(c) Successfully completed a course in Sports or Physical Education of at least 3 months duration in the Army, Navy or
Air Force training schools ; or
(d) Being a member of a National Sports Team which has taken part in competition at international level ;
                                            or

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
468
(e) Obtained first, second or third place in individual  events at the National Sports Festival conducted by the Sports
Ministry ; or
first or second places in team championship or first or second places in individual events at inter district competition
of this festival and or first place in team events or first second or third place in National level  competition conducted
by a Sports Federation or first place in a National or Public schools competition.
03. Mode of Application :-
3.1 Applicants who have the necessary educational and other qualifications mentioned above should prepare their application in
a paper 8 x 13 1/2 as per specimen application appearing at the end of this notice.
Complete it in their own hand writing and send it by registered post to reach, The Director, National Institute of Sports
Science, 100/07, Independence Avenue, Colombo 07, on or before 15.06.2007.
3.2 On the top left - hand corner of the envelope containing the application should be written “Application for the Course of
Diploma in Sports 2007”
3.3 Applicants who are in Government, Local Government and Corporation Services, should forward their applicatins through
the respective Head of Department/Institutions.
04. Selection :-
All those who have the necessary qualifications will be called for a written examination and those successfully would be called for
an interview and practical examination and will thereafter be selected to follow the course.
05. Details of the Course :-
5.1 Syllabus contents are following sections :
(a) General Theory of Training (Study of the Physical Qualities and Skills, Techniques, Tactics, Training Methods,
Aspects of Planning, Principles of Load and Tests)
(b) Theory and Practice of  at least ten major sports.
(c) Specialization in Track and Field Athletics.
(d) Specialization in one Sports or Game, other than Track and Field Athletics, which has been offered to the male or
female students, eigher similarly or differently, as the case may be, at the begining of the course.
(e) General subjects involving the study of Sports Physiology and Sociology, Sports Administration Organization
Methods and Ceremonials in sports.
5.2 The duration of the Course is 12 months. (Duration could be changed if necessary)
5.3 Those selected to follow the course who are not having jobs should pay a course fee of Rs.6,000 and who are having jobs in
Government Departments, Corporation or Provincial Councils have to pay a course fee of Rs.10,000 by personally or by the
institution.
This payment will not be refundable for any reason.
5.4 Those who selected are bound by the rules and regulations of the National Institute of Sports Science.
5.5 Diploma in Sports Certificates will be awarded to those sho successfully complete this course.
06. Other Conditions :-
6.1 This Ministy is not bound to provide employment to those who complete the course.
6.2 But if this Ministry require that those following this Course should enter into an agreement with the Director of the National
Institute of Sports Science, they should do so accordingly.
6.3 The Director of the National Institute of Sports Science will use his discretion on any matter not specified in this notice.
S. L
IYANAGAMA ,
Secretary,
07th May, 2007,
Ministry of Sports and Public Recreation,
No. : 33, Torrinton Square,
Colombo 07.

<!-- page 9 -->

469 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
Specimen Application Form - Diploma in Sports - 2007
1. (i) Full Name : Mr/Mrs./Miss :———.
(ii)Name with Initials :———.
(iii)Identity Card No. :———.
2. Address :———.
(i) Private :———.
(ii)Official :———.
3. Date of Birth :- Year :———. Month :———. Date :———.
Age on 15.06.2007 Year :———. Months:———. Days :———.
4. State whether citizen of Sri Lanka :———.
If so by descent or by registration :———.
5. (i) Sex :———.
(ii)Marital Status :———.
6. Are you employed or not :———.
(i) Present Post :———.
(ii)Service of Post :———.
7. Educational Qualifications :———.
Year Name of Examination Subjects Grade
8. Abilities in Sports :- (Certificates obtained and special achievements) :———.
9. (i) State on which paragraph (2.2 a, b, c, d, or e) do you get qualified :———.
(ii) Give details under relevant paragraph you qualified :———.
10. Any other special remarks :———.
11. Whether you are prepared to pay a course fee of Rs.6,000 or Rs.10,000 if selected :———.
I certify that the particulars given above are true and correct. I am  aware that it the Information give by me is found to be false or
incorrect. I am liable to be disqualified and removed from the course.
———,
Applicant’s Signature,
Date :———.
For Government/Local Government/Corporation Employees only :
Director,
National Institute of Sports Science ;
I recommend for forward herewith the application of Mr/Mrs/Miss ……………………employee of
…………………………working as ………………I certify that this applicant could be released for the period of the Course is selected.
———,
Signature Name and designation
the certifying officer.
Official rubber Stamp.
Date :———.
05-401

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
470
SRI    LANKA    ENGINEERING    SERVICE
Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Class II/Grade II - 2007
APPLICATIONS are invited form the citizens of Sri Lanka for the filling of vacancies existing in the posts of Civil/Mechanical/Electrical/
Chemical Engineers in Class II/Grade II in the Sri Lanka Engineering Service.
02. The applications should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared on a paper size
A4 using both sides and they should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Isurupaya on or before
25.06.2007. The top left-hand  corner of the envelop in which the application is enclosed, should bear clearly the title “Examination for the
posts in Class II/Grade II of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service 2007”.
I. NB : Applications which do not conform to the specimen will be rejected.
Note : No complaint that an application or a letter in respect of such applications have been lost or delayed in the post will
be considered. The candidates should bear any loss which may occur due to the delay in applying, until the closing date of
applications.
II. The officers in Public Service should forward their application through the respective heads of their organizations.
03. The Sri Lanka Engineering Service is entitled to SL/1/2006 salary group in terms of Public Administrative Circular No. 6/2006
and the salary scale applicable is Rs. 22,935-10x645-8x790-53,555 (per month). Accordingly, you will be entitled to the initial step of the
above salary group which is Rs. 22,935 (per month) 1st Efficiency Bar is positioned before the 4th salary step and the 2nd Efficiency Bar
(Full Professional Qualifications) is positioned before the 7th salary step of the above salary scale.
04. Other special service conditions of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service are as follows.
(i) A candidate with full professional qualifications will be placed on the salary step of Rs. 26,160 (per month).
(ii)The selected candidate is required to pass a prescribed examination before proceeding beyond the 1st Efficiency Bar.
Syllabus and the examination will be in terms of the regulations set up for the Minutes on the Sri Lanka Engineering Service.
A candidate appointed with full professional qualifications is required to pass the examination prescribed above to proceed
beyond the 1st Efficiency Bar, within a period of 2 years from the date of appointment.
(iii)The selected candidates should obtain full professional qualifications prescribed by the regulations of the Minutes on the
Sri Lanka Engineering Service so as to be promoted beyond the 2nd Efficiency Bar.
05. Opportunity for promotions — Opportunity is available for promotions from Class II/Grade II to Class II/Grade I and Class
I in the Sri Lanka Engineering Service.
06. Terms of Engagement and General Conditions of service.
(i) This post is permanent and is entitled to a contributory pension under the Contribution Pensions Fund. The appointment
will be on probation for a period of three years.
(ii)The selected candidates should be prepared to serve in any part of the island in which they are called upon to serve.
(iii)The selected candidates will be appointed to the vacant posts in respective Departments, Ministries and Provincial
Councils depending on the vacancies existing under respective engineering disciplines at such organizations.
(iv) Appointments will be made subject to the general conditions governing appointments in the public service and also subject
to the terms and conditions set out in the Minute on the Sri Lanka Engineering Service Published in the Gazette Extraordinary
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 590/12 dated 29.12.1989, and any amendments made or to be made
hereafter to this minute.
07. Educational and other Qualifications :
Every applicant is required to furnish satisfactory evidence in proof of the following :
(i) The candidate should be of an excellent moral charcter and physically sound.
(ii)The applicant should not be under 21 years and over 35 years of age on the date of closing of the applications (Maximum
age limit will not be applicable to those who are already in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service).

<!-- page 11 -->

471 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
(iii) (a)The candidate should have obtained a B. Sc. Engineering Degree corresponding to the Engineering discipline from a
University in Sri Lanka or an equivalent Engineering Degree similar to that from any other recognized University or an
Institution.
or
(b) Should pass the examinations relevant to the prescribed Engineering discipline by which the candidate qualifies  for the
associate membership of the Institution of Engineers.
or
(c) Should pass in all parts of the examination relevant to the prescribed Engineering discipline, held by the Engineering
establishment council of UK or its successor, which provide qualifications to the applicant for the sponsor associated
membership.
or
(d) Should obtain a chartered membership or a fellowship in the relevant Engineering discipline from a recognized Institution.
(iv) Applications of the candidates who are awaiting results at the time of closing date of applications, will be rejected.
08. Candidates will be asked to furnish one or all document/s below, when required. It is not required to send such documents along
with the application.
(a) Certificate of Birth (NB  - Certificate of Baptism or birth certificate issued for the purpose of code of regulations for assisted
schools will not be accepted).
(b) Degree certificate or the certificate of the highest examination passed.
(c) Two character certificates one of which should be from the Academic Director, College tutor or Professor.
(d) Certificate of professional and/or educational qualifications.
(e) Certificate of the highest examination passed in Sinhala/Tamil and English.
09. (i) The application should be in the language in which the candidate intends to sit the Examination.
(ii)Receipt of applications will not be acknoledged. Applicants are advised to keep a photocopy of the application.
(iii) A notice will be published in the newspapers as soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. A candidate who does not
receive his/her admission card at least 07 days of the date of the examination, should immediately notify the Commissioner
General of Examinations, Isurupaya, Battaramulla (Telegraphic address “Exams” Colombo) with the following particulars.
(a) Name of Examination ;
(b) Full Name of the candidate ;
(c) Address ;
(d) Date of posting the application, Registration Number and Date.
10. Examination Fees :  The examination fees will be Rs. 300. Before closing date of application, examination fees sould be paid
at the District/Divisional Secretary’s office to be credited to Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20-13. Receipt obtained from the District/Divisional
Secretary should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application. This fee will not be refunded. Applications sent without making payment
of stipulated examination fees, will be rejected. The candidate is advised to keep a photocopy of the payment receipt.
11. The Date of Examination
The examination will be held only in Colombo during the month September 2007 or before.
12. Reference is invited to the general conditions applicable to appointments to posts in the Public Service published at the
beginning of Part I Section (IIA) of the Gazette. (Except the Condition No. 09)
13. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examination will issue admission cards to all persons whose applications have been received.
A candidate presenting himself for the examination must produce his/her admission card to the supervisor of the examination
centre. A candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the examination centre assigned to him/her. Every candidate should hand over the
admission card to the Supervisor of the examination hall, on the first day of the examination. A set of rules to be followed
by all candidates is published in this Gazette.
Note : The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite qualifications
to the examination.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
472
14. Identification of candidates :  A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction
of the supervisor for each subject he/she offers. For this purpose any of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) A valid Passport
(b) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons
15. Penalty for furnishing false information - if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior to or during or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be intentionally false or
if he/she has wilfully suppressed any material fact, he/she will be liable to be dismissed from the Public Service.
16. Scheme of Examination - Language of Examination
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in which he/she passed the qualifying examination or in an official
language.
(c) A Candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying examination in more than one language should sit the examination in
the language in which he passed the majority of subjects at such examination or in an official language.
(d) A candidate with a special degree, who has passed the principal subject in one language and the subsidiary in another
language, should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the principal subject or in an official language.
Note : (i) The term “qualifying examination” in “b” and “c” above refers to the examination referred to in Para “07 III”
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language of examinations, subjects or levels given in his application.
17. Method of Recruitment : A written test consists of the following subjects will be held by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. Candidates are required to answer both exam papers (02).
(a) Intelligence Test - 100 marks - 1 hour exam paper
(b) General knowledge - 100 marks - 1 hour exam paper
Certificates of the candidates will be examined at an interview held by an interview board appointed by the Public Service
Commission. Marks will not be allocated for the interview.
18. Method of Selection for Appointment :   Candidates those who have scored highest marks in the written test will be called for
an interview as per the above provisions. If several candidates have obtained same marks, an appropriate decision will be taken by the Public
Service Commission which shall be final.
19. Syllabus
Intelligence Test - This exam paper is limited to 1 hour. This is designed to provide an assessment of the candidate’s powers of
logical reasoning and analysis & ability to draw sound inferences. This exam paper will be in the form of multiple-choice.
General knowledge - This exam paper is limited to 1 hour. It is designed to test the candidate’s awareness of his/her living
environment including the political, social, cultural, and economic-environment of Sri Lanka, matters of current national and international
interest as well as scientific and technological developments.
20. Number and the effective date of the appointments will be determined by the Public Service Commission. Also the Public
Service Commission has the power to refrain from filling any or all the vacancies and to take decisions regarding any matters not provided
for in these regulations.
                       On the order of the Public Service Commission,
Dr. Eng. K. M. P . S. BANDARA ,
Director/Engineering Service.
09th May, 2007,
Engineering Service Division,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.

<!-- page 13 -->

473 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
SPECIMEN  FORM  OF  APPLICATION
For Office use only
Open Competitive Examination to Recruitment to the posts of
Engineers in Class II/Grade II engineers of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service - 2007
Language in which the
candidate will sit the examination Sinhala  - 2/ Tamil  - 3/ English  -  4
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials (Initials at end) :———.
(In block letters) e. g. Silva, A. B. :———.
1.2 Names denoted by initials :———.
(In block letters) :———.
1.3 Name in Full :———.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Permanent Address :———.
(In block letters) :———.
2.1 Permanent Address  :———.
(In Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
2.2 Office Address :———.
(block letters in English) :———.
2.3 Address to which the correspondence should be sent :———.
(block letters in English)
3.0 Post applied for :———.
1. Civil
2. Mechanical
3. Electrical
4. Chemical
(Indicate “x” in the relevant cage)
4.0
4.1 Ethnic Group :———.
(1. Sinhala 2.Tamil 3. Ind. Tamil 4. Muslim 5. Other)
4.2 Female 1. Male 0
(write the relevant number) :———.
4.3 Marital Status : Married 2 Single 1 :———.
(write the relevant number)
4.4 National Identity Card No. :———.
4.5 Date of birth : Year :                Month :           Date :
4.6 Age as the closing date of application Years    Moths   Days :
5.0
5.1 Educational Qualifications :———.
(Please indicate particulars in respect of all Degrees, Professional and Technical qualifications including dates, subjects, name
of the Institution and classes, if any) :———.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
474
Examination/Degree Class Year Subject Institution
5.2 Professional Qualifications :———.
6.0 Particulars of the present post and posts held previously, if any (date of entry to the service, date of resignation and reasons for
resignation should be mentioned). :———.
6.1 Post :———.
6.2 Department/Institution :———.
6.3 Date of Appointment :———.
6.4 Whether permanent/Pensionable/non - pensionable/temporary :———.
6.5 Whether confirmed in the post :———.
6.6 Salary scale of the post and present salary :———.
7.0 Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for a criminal offence? If so, furnish particulars of such conviction and penalty
imposed. :———.
8.0. Please paste the receipt so as not be detached (It will be useful to keep a photocopy with the candidates). :———.
Number of the Receipt :———.
Paying Office :———.
Date :———.
I hereby certify that the particulars given by me in this application are ture and correct. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualify if detected before selection and to dismissal without compensation,
if detected after appointment.
I hereby agree to follow all the conditions of the examination.
————.
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :———.
If the applicant is in the Public Service, report of the Head of Department.
I hereby certify that (name in full) …………………………………who submits this application is known to me personally and
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on.…………………………………
I certify that the particulars given in paragraph 02 above are correct/need amendment as shown below and the his/her work and
conduct are…………………………………
He/She can be released/cannot be released from the present post.
————.
Signature of the Officer
attesting the signature.
Date :———.
Name of the Officer attesting the signature :———.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
(To be confimed by the Official Stamp)
05-424

<!-- page 15 -->

475 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
LIMITED    COMPETITIVE    EXAMINATION    FOR    PROMOTION    OF    MINOR    EMPLOYEES   OF   THE
PUBLIC    SERVICE    TO   CLASS   III    OF    THE    PUBLIC   MANAGEMENT   ASSISTANT’S   SERVICE - 2006
1.0  It is hereby notified that a limited competitive examination for promotion of minor employees of the Public Serive to class III
of the Public Management Assistants’ Service will be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations in the month of September 2007.
2.0  This examination will be held in the following towns for the minor employees attached to the central government service. The
list of towns and the respective town numbers are furnished below. The Commissioner - General of Examinations may, at his discretion,
cancel any of the examination centers owing to the insufficient number of candidates or another reason and decide an alternative center, taking
the candidates’ second preference into consideration.
Town Town No. Town Town No.
Colombo 01 Trincomalee 14
Gampaha 02 Batticaloa 15
Kalutara 03 Ampara 16
Matale 04 Puttalam 17
Kandy 05 Kurunegala 18
Nuwara Eliya 06 Anuradhapura 19
Galle 07 Polonnaruwa 20
Matara 08 Bad ulla 21
Hambantota 09 Monaragala 22
Jaffna 10 Kegalle 23
Mannar 11 Ratnapura 24
Mulativu 12 Killinochci 25
V avuniya 13
3.0 (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations and the candidates shall be bound by the rules
and regulations prescribed by him for the conduct of the examination.
(ii)Rules and regulation for candidates are provided separatly in the Gazette Notification. Candidates are liable to any
punishment imposed by him for breech of these rules.
4.0   Medium in which candidates should sit the examination - Candidates may sit this examination in only one language medium
of their preference.
5.0  Salary -  As per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated 25.04.2006, the Monthly salary scale applicable to
Classes III, II and I of the Public Management Assistants’ Service is Rs.13,640, 10 x 120, 11 x 140, 6 x 210, 14 x 290, 21,700. to obtain above
Rs. 14,840, promoting to Class II is required and promotion to Class I is necessary to obtain above Rs.16,380.
Note : They will be granted incremental  credit subject to the incremental credit rules prevailing at the time of receiving appointment.
6.0  Conditions of Service -
(i) Candidates who are successful in this examination will be appointed on an acting basis for one year from the date of the
appointment. Their posts will be permanent and pensionable. Confirmation in the service will be done after the requirements
prescribed in the service minute of the Public Management Assistants’ Service are fulfilled.
(ii)Candidates who receive appointments on the results of the examination will be liable to transfer and may be posted to any
station in Sri Lanka.
7.0  Selections for appointments - Only the minor employees in Central Government Service will be admitted for the competitive
examination to compete for vacancies in the Central Government. The selections will be based on the marks scored at the examination.
8.0 Eligibility - To be eligible to compete in this examination, every applicant should ;
(i) be a minor employee in the Central Government Service holding a permanent post with a salary scale that comes under
salary codes PL -1-2006, PL-2-2006 and PL -3-2006 in terms of Public Administration Circular No.06/2006 dated
25.04.2006 and should have been confirmed in the appointments (Should be a public servant falling under a definition in
Chapter I of the Establishment Code.)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
476
(ii)have completed a continuous, active and a satisfactory service period of 05 years immediately prior to 31.12.2006 and the
Head of Department should have certified that.
(iii)have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects (06) including Language/
Literature and Arithmetic/Pure Mathematics/Elementary Mathematics/Commercial Arithmetic.
Note :-
(1) Period of service served prior to receiving a permanent appointment or any period of service or training that are
prescribed as a condition to be fulfilled prior to granting permanency in the post, will not be taken into account when
calculating the qualifying 05 years period mentioned in (ii) above. Periods  of temporary/casual service prior to
receiving permanency, too, will not be taken into account when calculating the qualifying 05 year period.
(2) All drivers of motor vehicle in Public Service will be allowed to sit for this examination notwithstanding their salary
scale provided that they possess other prescribed qualifications.
(3) The five - year satisfactory service period referred to in Section (ii) above will be determined on the following basis.
Candidates who have fulfilled the following requirements will be considered as having a satisfactory service for the
purpose of this examination :
(a) He/she should have earned all the increments during the five years immediately prior to 31.12.2006 ;
(b) He/she should not have suffered any disciplinary punishment during the five year period prior to 31.12.2006.
(4) The Head of Department should be prepared to release the officer if he/she is selected for an appointment.
(5) Employees who are engaged in semi - technical work, who have been trained on a certain task or who have been given
special training by the Government will not be eligible to sit this examination. For example, employees in engineering
and industrial grades and Public Health Officers in the Department  of Health will not be eligible to sit for this
examination. In case there are any doubts as to whether a particular employee is eligible or not, the applicant should
consult his department, which, in turn, will consult the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
When consulting the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs regarding the eligibility of any employee to
sit this examination, the Department concerned should submit a comprehensive  description of the job held by the
employee with the salary scale and state whether the applicant had been given any training to equip himself to hold
the job and  the nature and duration of such training, if any.
(6) Temporary and casual employees in public service, employees of Boards, Corporations and similar bodies are not
eligible to compete in this examination.
(7) The candidates, before forwarding their applications, should satisfy themselves that they have fulfilled all the
requirements prescribed herein. Candidates who present themselves for the examination without fulfilling  the prescribed
requirements will be disqualified, even if they attain a required standard of marks in the examination.
(8) Any other employee in Postal Department, except the minor employees in the Combined Services are not eligible to
appear for this examination.
9.0 Applications :
(i) A specimen form of application for admission to this examination is appended to this notification. Application forms
should be prepared by the candidates using both sides of full A 4 size papers in such a manner that no’s 1.0 to 3.0 appear
on the first page.
(ii)Examination Fees.–The fee for this examination is Rs.250. This is payable at any District Secretariat or Divisional
Secretariat under Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained
thus should be affixed firmly in the relevant cage on the application form (a photocopy of the receipt should be kept with
the applicant for future use.) The fee will not be refunded under any circumstance while money orders and stamps will not
be accepted in respect of the fee.
(iii)The application form must be completed correctly and legibly in the candidates own handwriting  and sent by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla on or before 26.06.2007 through the Heads of Departments in which the candidates are serving.
(iv) The application should be prepared only as per the specimen appended to this and a candidate should not send more than
one application form. It is further informed that photocopies or advanced copies should not be sent.

<!-- page 17 -->

477 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
10.0 Heads of Departments are required to furnish a certificate as indicated at the end of the application form. Any application
received after the due date will be rejected. The name of the examination should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
enclosing  the form. If any candidate fails to comply with this procedure, his/her application is liable to be rejected. Candidates are requested
to forward their applications to the Heads of their Departments well in advance enabling them to forward the applications to the
Commissioner General of Examinations on or before 26.06.2007.
11.0 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue a copy of the examination time table along with the admission card to
all candidates whose applications have been received. Concurrent to this, an advertisment will be published in “Dinamina”, Thinakaran, and
“Daily News” papers notifying the issuance of admission cards. Candidates appearing for the examination should get the admission card
attested in advance and produce it to the supervisor of the examination hall. Without such admission card, no candidate will be allowed to
sit for the examination. If an officer does not receive his/her admission card at least seven (07) days before the day of examination, he/she
should, without delay, inform the non-receipt of the admission card to the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla, (Telegraphic Address : “Exams”, Battaramulla) along
with the following information :
(i) Name of the examination ;
(ii)Full name of Applicant ;
(iii)Full postal address ;
(iv) Post office, Registration number and Date of dispatch ;
(v) Photocopy of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee ;
(vi) Photocopy of the application form.
12.0  Admission to the examination does not constitute acceptance of eligibility. Such admission will be subjected to scrutinization
at a later stage. The candidature of any applicant, who is subsequently found to have been ineligible to compete at the examination, is liable
to cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the examination.
13.0  The results will be released to the Director - General of Combined Services by the Commissioner - General of Examinations.
14.0 Identity of Candidates.–Candidates will be required to prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each  subject they offer. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted :
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) a valid passport.
15.0 Heads of Departments should approve duty leave to officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations enabling them to appear for the exam. Travelling expenses are not payable.
16.0 Penalty for Furnishing  False Information.– Candidates should take care to furnish correct information when filling the
application form. As per the rules and regulations of the examination, the candidature of any applicant may be  cancelled prior to, during or
after the examination, if his/her ineligibility to sit for the examination is disclosed. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found
to be false at any stage he/she will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
17.0 Scheme of Examination :
The subjects of the examination and the marks assigned to each subject are given below :
Subject Marks Duration
(1) General Knowledge 100 2 hours
(2) Aptitude Test 100 1 hour
Total 200
Note :–
(i) These question papers are designed to test the candidate’s aptitude and ability to undertake duties of the service.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
478
(ii) In all written answer papers, marks will be deducted for spelling mistakes and illegible handwriting.
(iii)For each subject above, a minimum of 40% of the marks should be obtained. Appointments will be granted depending
only on the order of merit and the number of existing vacancies.
(iv) The structure of the question papers relevant to the subjects of this examination will be published in the website of
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs. (Website address : www.pubad.gov.lk).
18.0  The decision of the Director General of Combined Service will be final regarding any matter not provided for in this notice
of examination.
A. NOBERT .
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration,
and Home affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
07th May 2007.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION FORM
(For Office use only)
L
IMITED     COMPETITIVE     EXAMINATION     FOR     PROMOTION    OF    MINOR  EMPLOYEES    OF    THE    PUBLIC  SERVICE  TO    CLASS    III   OF    THE    PUBLIC
M ANAGEMENT     ASSISTANTS ’   SERVICE  - 2006
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Town in which you intend to sit the
examination as per the Gazette notification).
Language medium of Eamination
Sinhala -2, Tamil - 3, English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 (it will not be allowed to change this subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :———.
(In English block capitals)
eg :- SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in full :———.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :———.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0   Place of Work and Address :
2.1 Name and address of office/Department/Institution :———.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Name and address of Office/Department/Institution :———.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :———.
(In English block capitals)

<!-- page 19 -->

479 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
3.0 3.1   Sex :
Female —1, Male—0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth : year :              Month :             Date :
3.3 National Identity Card No :
4.0  Service particulars :
4.1 Name of the Department in which you are serving at present :———.
4.2 Designation of present post :———.
4.3 Date of appointment to the present post :———.
4.4 Whether the present post is permanent or temporary :———.
4.5 Whether confirmed in the present post :———.
4.6 If confirmed, the date on which you qualified for confirmation :———.
4.7 Reference No. and date of letter issued confirming you in the present post :———.
4.8 Present annual salary (consolidated) :———.
4.9 Whether the present appointment its pensionable :———.
5.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the fee was paid :———.
(ii)The date and number of the receipt :———.
(iii)Amount paid :———.
Affix the relevant receipt firmly here.
I hereby certify that the information furnished hereby me are correct. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false or incorrect before appointment, I am liable to be disqualified and if found after appointment, I am liable to be dismissed.
—————,
Signature of Candidate
(In the presence of the Head of Department)
Date :———.
Note :
The applicant should place his/her signature in the presence of his/her Head of Department or an officer authorized to sign on
behalf of him.
                Attestation of Signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………………………… employed at my place of work and who is personally known to me,
placed his/her signature in my presence on………………………………
——————,
Signature and official stamp of the person attesting.
Name :———.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
Date :———.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
480
          Certificate of the Head of Department
I, hereby certify,
01. That this candidate (Mr/Mrs/Miss).………………….. is an employee in this Department.
02. That he/she is holding a permanent post.
03. That he/she has been confirmed in a permanent post as at 31.12.2006.
04. That he/she has been issued a letter confirming him/her in a permanent post.
05. That he/she has completed at least 5 years of continuous service on or before 31.12.2006.
06. That he/she drawing a salary/or is on a scale of salary which is within the limits prescribed in para 8.0 of the Gazette
notification.
07. That his/her work and conduct during the 5 years immediately prior to 31.12.2006 have been satisfactory.
08. That he/she could be released from his/her present post, if selected for an appointment on the results of this examination.
09. That the application bears a receipt to the value of Rs.250.
10. That the particulars given in his/her application have been checked with records available in this deparments and that he/she
is eligible to sit this examination according to the regulations prescribed in the Gazette notification relating to this examination.
———————,
Signature and official stamp of Head of Department.
Name :———.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
Date :———.
Note :
(1) This certificate should be signed only by the Head of Department or by a Staff Officer duly authorized to sign on his behalf.
The officer issuing the certificate should satisfy himself that the contents of the certificate are correct in all aspects.
(2) The application of any candidate who does not satisfy all the requirements of eligibility should not be forwarded to the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
05-431
DEPARTMENT     OF     ANIMAL     PRODUCTION    AND
HEALTH
Two Year Diploma Course in Animal Husbandry
APPLICATIONS are invite for the admission of students to the
above mentioned two Year Diploma Course in Animal Husbandry
conducted by this Department.
01. Particulars of the Diploma Course are as follows :
1.1 The course will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English
Media.
1.2 The Diploma Course is purely a V ocational Course and is
intended for  those who wish either to be self employed in
livestock industry or to those who seek suitable  employment
after completing the course successfully. However, the
Department is not prepared to provide employment to  those
who complete this course.
1.3 Lodging will be provided to the students during the period
of training but food will not be supplied.
As the classes may be held in Saturdays and Sundays the students
will be allowed to leave the hostels in one weekend for a month.
02. Mode of Selection.–Selection of students will be  done by a
written examination and an interview. Written examination will consist
of two papers each will be of 01 hour duration on the following :
(i) Animal Husbandry - Multiple choice and short questions
prepared according to the Livestock
Part in the syllabus of Agriculture
for G. C. E. (O/L)
(ii)General Knowledge
(iii)English                    - Prepared according to the Syllabus
of the English Language for G. C. E.
(O/L) Shoud have the minimum
qualifications given below
03. Educational and Other Qualifications :
3.1 Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka;
3.2 They should not be less than 17 years and not more than 25

<!-- page 21 -->

481 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
years of age on 25.06.2007 (A copy of the Birth Certificate
should be attached).
3.3.1 Should have passed General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) in one sitting with six subjects including
Credit Passes for Language or Literature, Mathematics,
Science and another subject ; and
3.3.2 Should have passed General Certificate of Education
(Advanced Level) Examination in one sitting including two
science subjects out of the following subjects - Physics,
Chemistry, Biology, Agriculture.
The copies of the educational certificates should be attached
to the application. Applications which do not comply with
this requirement will be rejected. The originals of the
certificates should be submitted at the interview.
** Those who have studied in the Maths stream in the
G. C. E. (A/L) cannot apply for this Diploma.
3.3.3. If the candidate wishes to follow the course in the English
Medium he/she should has obtained a credit pass for English
Language at G. C. E. (O/L) examination.
04. If any information herein provided by an applicant is found
to be untrue or incorrect his/her studentship will be terminated
forthwith and he/she is liable to pay the expenses incurred by the
Department on account of his/her training to the Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health. Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health reserves the right to
determine these expenses.
05. Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen
provided below should be forwarded under registered cover addressed
to the “Director (Human Resources Development), Department of
Animal Production and Health, P . O. Box 13, Gatambe, Peradeniya
on or before 25.06.2007. The words “Admission to Diploma in
Animal Husbandry” and the district where the applicant resides
should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelop.
Applicants should themselves prepare their applications. Candidates
should forward a Money Order with the application to the value of
Rs. 150 as  examination fees in favour of “Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health” to be withdrawn
from Post Office, Peradeniya.
06. Applications which do not comply with the requirement of
this notice will be rejected without any acknowledgement to the
applicant. The examination fees will not be refunded.
D R . S. K. R. AMARASEKARA ,
Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Gatambe,
Peradeniya,
25th May, 2007.
APPLICATION  FORM
TWO  YEAR  DIPLOMA  COURSE  IN ANIMAL  HUSBANDRY
01. Name in full (in block letters) :———.
02. Name with initials :———.
03. Address :———.
04. District  :———. Electorate :———.
05. Date of Birth :
Year :———. Month :———. Date :———.
06. Age as at 25.06.2007 :———.
07. The Examination  :———. Year :———.
08. (i) Subjects passed at the G. C. E. (Ord. Level) :
Subject Grade Year Index Number
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
(ii) Subjects passed in the G. C. E. (Ad. Level) :
Subject Grade Year Index Number
1.
2.
3
4.
(Copies of all the Certificates should be annexed. Applications without
copies of certificates will be rejected.)
9. The Last School/Institution attended  :———.
10. The School/Institution where the candidate has studied last
:———.
11. Date of leaving the School/Institution :———.
12. Experience in Animal Husbandry (to be supported by copies
of certificates) :———.
13. Experience in Agricultural/Rural Development/Other Social
Activities, Sports etc. (copies should be attached) :——.
14. The media in which the applicant wishes to follow the course
Sinhala/Tamil/English :———.
15. Names and address of two referees :———.
(1).
(2).
I do hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and correct according to my knowledge. I am also aware that if
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect

<!-- page 22 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
482
after the selection my studentship will be terminated and I am liable
to pay any expenses incurred on account of my training.
 —————,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :———.
Note : Copies of the following certificates are attached.
1.
2.
3.
05-432
MINISTRY    OF    FOREIGN    AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Filling of Vacancies in
the Home Based Personal Assistants’ Posts in Sri Lanka
Missions Abroad-2007/2008
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for selection of Home Based
Personal Assistants who are competent in English Stenography and
Computer applications for appointment to Sri Lanka Missions
Abroad, from Public Management Assistants’ Service, Provincial
Public Service, Local Government Service, Semi-Government
Organizations such as Corporation/State Banks, other Statutory
Bodies and the Private Sector.
02. Eligibility. -
(i) Should be Sri Lankan citizen and if the applicant is married,
spouse should also be a Sri Lankan citizen;
(ii)Members of the Public Management Assistants’ Service,
Provincial Public Service and the Local Government Service
who are not more than 55 years of age on the closing date of
application and have completed a minimum of 05 years
serive;
(iii)Officers in Semi-Government Organizations such as
Corporations, State Banks, Other Statutory Bodies and the
Private Sector who are not more than 55 years of age on the
closing date of application, and having a minimum of 05
years of experience in English Stenography, and Computer
Application.
         Note: (i) Those who are presently serving in Sri Lanka
Missions abroad are not eligible to apply.
(ii)Those who have served in Sri Lanka Missions
earlier and returned to Sri Lanka may sit the exam.
However, appointment will be given on priority
basis to those who have spent at least 12 months
after returning to Sri Lanka on completion of their
last posting.
03. Method of Selection :
3.1 Applicants will be required to sit for a test in English
Stenography. The test will be held in Colombo in English
medium only. The speed in Stenography required for the
test will be 80 w.p.m. Those who have secured 40% or more
at this test will be called upon to sit for a test on computer
literacy in English medium and an interview. However, in
case if there are insufficient number of qualified applicants
with the above mark levels at the written examination,
Secretary to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will reserve the
right to call candidates with lesser marks for the interview.
3.2 Marks allocated for tests will be as follows:-
(a) English Stenography - 100 marks
(b) Computer Literacy including
database management
(01 hour written test) - 50 marks
(c) Computer Literacy including
database management
(Practical test) - 50 marks
3.3 Persons selected on merit from the written examination will
be called for an interview. The interview will be conducted
by a Board appointed by the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs. The placements will be finalized at the discretion of
the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4.1 (a) An officer selected will be required to serve initially
in Colombo at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a
specified period not exceeding two years prior to
being posted to a Sri Lanka Mission abroad. If his/her
work and conduct during this initial period of service
at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are found to be
unsatisfactory, his/her selection is liable to be
cancelled. The period of service in the Ministry can
be changed according to the requirement of the
Ministry.
(b) Posting will be decided on the basis of requirement of
respective Missions and the officer’s suitability and
competence (in foreign language, etc.). In deciding on
such postings, there is no obligation on the part of
the Ministry to consider the officer’s personal needs
and grievances (children’s education etc.) Further the
Ministry is not bound to fill the vacancies purely in
accordance with the order of merit of the selection
tests.
(c) An officer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka
Mission abroad, is normally required to serve abroad
for a period of three years on terms and conditions as
stipulated by the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and to enter into an agreement to that effect.

<!-- page 23 -->

483 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
4.2 Candidates selected from Corporations, State Banks,
Statutory Bodies and Private Sector have to serve for a
contractual period of 05 years in the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs as well as in the Sri Lanka Mission abroad (02 years
initially in the Ministry and 03 years in a Mission).
However, the period of service in the Foreign Affairs and Sri
Lanka Mission abroad can vary depending on the exigencies
of the service. They will be reverted to their previous posts
after the expiry of the contract period of 05 years.
4.3 Officers in Government Service (Public Management
Assistants’ Service/Provincial/Public/Local Government
Service) if selected, will continue to be paid on the present
salary scales. Others will be paid a fixed salary of Rs. 14,980
per month.
In addition, they will be paid an Overseas Allowance that is
applicable, in accordance with existing rules and regulations
while they are serving in Sri Lanka Missions abroad.
4.4 When a selected officer is posted to a Sri Lanka Missions
abroad, the Government will meet the cost of air passage to
the country of posting and back, accommodation there and
other allowances as determined by the Secretary, Ministry
of Foreign Affairs during his/her service abroad only in
respect of the officer, his/her spouse and two eligible children.
(For the purpose of this clause “eligible children” means
unmarried children under 21 years of age).
05. Method of Application :
5.1 Printed application forms will not be issued. Candidates
should submit their applications in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification prepared on a sheet of paper
of A-4 size and should be forwarded through the respective
Heads of Department. Every application should carry an
endorsement from the Head of Department as to the
suitability of the applicant for service overseas, that the
applicant if selected, can be released from his/her present
post immediately and that the particulars given in the
application are correct.
5.2 The application should be forwarded by registered post to
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla, on
or before 25th of June 2007 and should be marked
“Examination for Selection of Home Based Personal
Assistants to fill vacancies in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad”
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. No application
received after the closing date will be accepted. English letter
“P” should be clearly indicated within a cage (2cm x 2cm) on
the top of the left side of the envelope.
06. Examination Fees :
Examination fee is Rs. 200. This fee can be paid to any Post
Office. The receipt obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage of
the application. (Receipt number, date and the Post Office should be
noted.) Under no circumstances, the examination fees will be refunded.
Money Orders or stamps will not be accepted for payment of
examination fees.
07. Any application, which is not completed in every respect, is
liable to be rejected. No complaints that an application has been lost
or delayed in the post will be considered.
08. An application will not be acknowledged. Eligible applicants
whose applications have been accepted will be summoned for the
written examination, which will be conducted by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations. A notice will be published in the newpapers
as soon as Admission Cards for the written examination are issued.
P
ALITHA  T. B. KOHONA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
P. O. Box: 583, Republic Building,
Colombo 01.
11th May, 2007
SPECIMEN FORM NO. 1
Application for Post of Home Based Personal Assistants in
Sri Lanka Missions Abroad
[O
NLY  FOR  APPLICANT  UNDER  PARA  2: (ii)]
Part A
Index No:
(for office use only)
1. (i) Full Name of Applicant :—————.
(ii)Last names with initials :—————.
2.Address:
(a) Official  :—————.
(b) Private  :—————.
(c) N. I. C. No.
3. (i) Date of Birth:
Year :———. Month  :———. Date  :———.
(ii)Age as at closing date of application:
Years :———.Months  :———.Days  :———.
4. Civil Status   :—————.
5 . If married, name of spouse and his/her nationality  :——.
6. Number of children, their names, Dates of Birth and their Ages
:———.
7. If spouse is employed, particulars of employment (if a State
Officer give full particulars) :—————.
8. Educational Qualifications (including medium)  :—————.
9. Date of First Appointment under Government/ Provincial
Public/ Local Government Sector :—————.
10. Date of Confirmation :—————.
11. Present Grade and Date of Entry to it  :—————.
12. Present Annual Salary  :—————.
13. Nature of Present duties  :—————.
14. Speed in:

<!-- page 24 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
484
(a) English Stenography  :—————.
(b) English Typing   :—————.
15. Proficiency in:
(a) English Language   :—————.
(b) Sinhala/Tamil Language  :—————.
(c) Computer Literacy  :—————.
(d) Other Foreign Languages  :—————.
16. Sri Lanka Missions (if any) in which the applicant had served
earlier and the period   :—————.
17. Any other qualifications  :—————.
18. Remarks   :—————.
Applicants are required to paste the receipt for examination fees
obtained from the Post Office for the correct amount as per terms of
the Gazette Notification ——.
1. No. of the Receipt  :—————.
2. Post Office  :—————.
3. Date  :—————.
4. Amount   :—————.
19. Certificate by Applicant   :
I declare that during the five years precedings........................................
I have earned all increments, and that I have not been subjected to
any form of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning), and that
to the best of my knowledge and belief, the information given in this
form is correct and accurate.
  :—————.
Signature of Applicant.
Date: ——.
Part B
Certificate of the Head of Department
(To be filled in by the Head of the Department)
I have ascertained that during the five years preceding 25.06.2007,
Mr./Mrs./Miss .....................................................has (a) earned all
his/her increments, (b) not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment. (excluding warning).
I certify that the particulars given in the application are correct.
This officer if selected, could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
  :—————.
Signature of Head of Department
Name  :—————.
Designation  :—————.
Date   :—————.
SPECIMEN FORM NO. II
Application for Post of Home Based Personal Assistants in
Sri Lanka Missions Abroad
[O
NLY  FOR  APPLICANT  UNDER  PARA   (iii)]
Part A
Index No:
(for office use only)
1. (i) Full Name of Applicant :—————.
(ii)Last Names with Initials :—————.
2.Address:
(a) Official  :—————.
(b) Private  :—————.
(c) N. I. C. No.
3. (i) Date of Birth:
Year :———. Month  :———. Date  :———.
(ii)Age as at closing date of application:
Years :———.Months  :———.Days  :———.
  4. Civil Status   :—————.
5. If married, name of spouse and his/her nationality  :——.
6. Number of children, their names, Dates of Birth and their Ages
:———.
7. If spouse is employed, particulars of employment (if a State
Officer give full particulars) :—————.
8. Educational Qualifications (including medium)  :—————.
9. Name of Institution and the period where the applicant has
served during the five years preceding the closing date (Please
annex service certificates): ——.
Period
 Name of Institution Designation From To
10. Present Annual Salary  :—————.
11. Nature of Present duties :—————.
12. Speed in:
(a) English Stenography  :—————.
(b) English Typing :—————.
13. Proficiency in:
(a) English Language  :—————.
(b) Sinhala/Tamil Language :—————.
(c) Computer Literacy  :—————.
(d) Other Foreign Languages  :—————.
14. Sri Lanka Missions (if any) in which the applicant had served
earlier and the period  :—————.
15. Any other qualifications  :—————.
16. Remarks  :—————.
Applicants are required to paste the receipt for examination fees
obtained from the Post Office for the correct amount as per terms of
the Gazette Notification ——.

<!-- page 25 -->

485 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
1. No. of the Receipt    :—————.
2. Post Office   :—————.
3. Date   :—————.
4. Amount    :—————.
19. Certificate by Applicant   :—————.
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is
true and correct. I am aware that, should any of the information given
by me above are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable for
disqualification before selection and to dismissal without
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appoinment.
 :—————.
Signature of Applicant.
Date: ——.
Part B
Certificate of the Head of the Institution
(To be filled by the Head of the Institution)
I, certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss.
.....................................is serving in this Institution from
.................................................his/her work and conduct are
satisfactory, the details furnished above are correct according to the
records available in this office and placed his/ her signature before me
on......................................................2007.
This officer if selected, could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
 :—————.
Signature of Head of Institution.
Full Name of the Attester  :—————.
Designation :—————.
Address :—————.
05-446/1
MINISTRY  OF  FOREIGN  AFFAIRS
Competitive Examination for Filling Vacancies in the Public
Management Assistants Service Cadre in Sri Lanka
Missions Abroad
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from eligible officers in the
Public Management Assistants’ Service, Provincial Public
Managment Assistants Service and Local Government Public
Management Assistants Service for the competitive Examination
conducted by the Commissioner-General of Examinations on behalf
of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to be held in Colombo for the
selection of officers to fill vacancies in the home-based Public
Management Assistants’ Cadre in Sri Lanka Missions abroad.
2. Eligibility.—An applicant should have the following
qualifications :
(a) Should be an officer in Class I or Class II of the Public
Management Assistants Service, or an officer in Class I or
Class II of the Provincial Public Management Assistants
Service and the Local Government Public Management
Assistants Service.
(b) All applicants :
(i) Should be below the age of 55 years on the closing
date of applications,
(ii)Should have earned on the due dates all the annual
increments falling within the five years immediately
preceding the date of his/her application, and
(iii)Should not have been subjected to any form of
disciplinary punishment. (other than warning)
Note :
(i) Those who are presently serving in Sri Lanka Missions
abroad are not eligible to apply for this examination.
(ii)Those who have served in Sri Lanka Missions earlier, should
have spent at least 2 years after returning to Sri Lanka on
completion of their last posting.
(iii) If an applicant who is eligible at the time of forwarding his/
her application is subsequently promoted to a Class/Grade
higher than Class I of the Public Management Assistants
Service/Provincial Public Management Assistants Service/
Local Government Public Management Assistants Service
or appointed to a post in any other service, he/she will cease
to be eligible for posting to a Sri Lanka Mission abroad to fill
a vacancy in the home-based Public Management Assistants
cadre. It is the responsibility of such applicant to promptly
inform the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the
event of any change in his/her official status that might be
effect his/her eligibility under the clause (a) of this paragraph.
(iv) Preference is given to officers with experience in accounts
and establishment work and having a very good knowledge
of English/other languages. (written and spoken) Working
Knowledge in other foreign languages will be considered as
an added qualification and will be given preference.
3. Method of Selection.—Selection will be made on the basis of a
written examination to be conducted by the Commissioner-General
of Examinations and an interview. The examination will be held in
Colombo.
3.1 Written Examination.—The written examination will consist
of the following papers each of which will carry 100 marks.
Paper Duration
Accounting 2 hours
Establishment and Office Procedure 2 hours
English 2 hours
General Knowledge 1 hour

<!-- page 26 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
486
Note :
(i)Accounting.—An objective and structured type of question
paper is set to test the candidate’s practical knowledge of
financial operations and accounting procedures in a
Government Institution.
(ii)Establishment and Office  Procedure.—The questions in
this objective and structured type of paper are set to test
the candidate’s practical knowledge of establishment and
office procedures in a Government Institution.
The question paper will be set in a manner to let the
candidates select questions of their choice.
(iii)English.—This objective and structured type question paper
is designed to test the candidate’s knowledge in
comprehension and written communication.
(iv)General Knowledge.—This paper will consist of question
on political, social, cultural and economic environment,
history and geography of Sri Lanka as well as current
international affairs. Candidates are required to answer all
questions and short answers would be sufficient.
(v) Computer skill will be an added qualification.
3. 2 Interview :
3.2.1 Those candidates who have obtained a minimum of 40 per
cent marks in each paper with a total aggregate of 200 marks
or above at the written examination will qualify for the
interview. However, in case if there are no sufficient qualified
applicants with the above mark levels at the written
examination, the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
reserves the right to call candidates with lesser marks for the
interview.
3.2.2 The interview will carry 100 marks and will be conducted
by a Board appointed by the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4.1 An officer selected will be required to serve initially in
Colombo at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a specified
period of at least two years prior to being posted to a Sri
Lanka Mission abroad. If his/her work and conduct during
this initial period of service at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
are found to be unsatisfactory, his/her selection is liable to
be cancelled.
4.2 An officer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka Mission
abroad, is normally required to serve abroad for a period of
three years on terms and conditions as stipulated by the
Secretary, Ministry of Foreign affairs and to enter into an
agreement to that effect. On completion of the term the
officer will return to the Ministry. No extension will be
granted.
4.3 The officers selected will continue to receive their present
substantive salaries and will, in addition, be paid an overseas
allowance during their period of service abroad.
4.4 When a selected officer is posted to a Sri Lanka Mission
abroad, the Government will meet the cost of air passage to
the country of posting and back, accommodation there and
other allowances as determined by the Secretary, Ministry
of Foreign Affairs during his/her service abroad only in
respect of the officer, his/her spouse and two eligibel children.
(The children eligible for the purpose of this section are
those under 21 years of age and dependent on the officer.)
5. Method of Application :
5.1 Printed application forms will not be issued. Candidates
should submit their applications in the form, specimen of
which is appended to this notification, prepared on a sheet
of paper of A4 size, in a manner to include headings from
1.0 to 5.0 from 6.0 to 13.0 and the remaining heading 14.0
plus part B in pages one, two and three, respectively.
Applications should be forwarded through the respective
Head of Departments. Applications which do not carry the
recommendation of the Head of respective Department as
stipulated in the Part B, will be rejected.  Every applications
should carry an endorsement from the Head of Department
as to the suitability of the applicant for service overseas,
that the applicant if selected, can be released from his/her
present post immediately and that the particulars given in
the application are correct.
5.2 Applications should be forwarded by registered post to
reach the “Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Department
of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla” on or before
25.06.2007 and should be marked “Examination for Selection
of Management Assistants to fill vacancies in Sri Lanka
Missions Abroad” on the top left hand corner of the
envelope. No application received after the closing date will
be accepted. English letter “M” should be clearly indicated
within a cage (2cm x 2cm) on the top of the left side of the
envelop.
6. Examinations Fees.—Examination fee is Rs. 300. This fee can
be paid to any post office to the credit of Revenue Head 4000-20-
03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations, and the
receipt obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage of the
application (receipt number, date, amount and the post office should
be noted). Receipt obtained by paying examination fees through any
other mode or stamps or postal/money orders will not be accepted.
It will be appropriate to keep a photocopy of the receipt. The
examination fees will not be refunded.
7. Any application, which is not complete in every respect, is
liable to be rejected. No allegation that an application has been lost or
delayed in the post will be considered. Applications received after
the closing date will not be accepted.

<!-- page 27 -->

487 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
8. Admission to the Examination :
8.1 An application will not be acknowledged. Applicants will
be summoned for the written examination according to the
order in which the applications were received.
8.2 The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to all those applicants who submit their
applications before the closing date. A candidate presenting
himself for the examination must produce his/her admission
card that bears the attested signature of the same to the
Supervisor of the Examination Centre. A candidate who
fails to produce his/her admission card will not be permitted
to sit for the Examination.
8.3 A candidate must sit the Examination at the Examination
Hall assigned to him/her. Every candidate should surrender
to the Supervisor of the Hall, the admission card on the first
day of his/her presenting himself/herself for the examination
at that hall. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates is
published in the Gazette.
Rules governing the surrender of the admission card to
Supervisor of Examination Hall on the first day of his/her
presenting himself/herself are published at the beginning of
the Gazette.
9. Medium of Examination.—The Examination will be conducted
in Sinhala/Tamil/English media.
9.1 A candidate is required to answer all papers, except the
English Languge paper, in one language, Sinhala/Tamil/
English. Answering questions in two languages is prohibited.
10. Penalty for Furnishing False Information :
10.1 If a candidate is found to be ineligible to sit this examination
at any stage prior to, during or after the examination, his/her
candidature is liable to be rejected.
10.2 If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate are found
to be false within his/her Knowledge, or if he/she willfully
suppressed any material fact, he/she will be liable to dismissal
from the Public Service.
11. Identity of Candidate :
11.1 A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the
Examination Hall to the satisfaction  of the Supervisor for
each subject he/she offers. For this purpose any of the
following documents will be accepted :
11.2 National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
11.3 Valid Identity Card recently issued by the Post Master
General.
11.4 A valid Passport issued not more than three years before
this Examination.
P
ALITHA  T. B. KOHONA ,
Secretary/Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
P.O. Box 583, Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
11th May, 2007.
SPECIMEN    APPLICATION    FORM
Application for the Competitive Examination for Filling
Vacancies in the Public Management Assistants Cadre in Sri
Lanka Missions Abroad
P
ART  A
For Office Use
Language medium in which the applicant wishes to sit (Sinhala 2,
Tamil - 3, English -4) (Give the relevant letter in the Box)
1.0 Name :———.
1.1 Name with initials Mr./Mrs./Miss :———.
(In English Capitals)
Eg : Mr./ Silva M. A. :
1.2 Name if full (in English capitals) :———.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
2.0 Permanent address (In English capitals) :———.
     (To which admission cards are sent to) :———.
2.1 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
Tel. No. :———.
2.2 Official Address (In English capitals) :———.
Tel. No. :———.
3.0 Sex :———.
(Female  - 1, Male - 0)
(Give the relevant letter)
3.1 National Identity Card No.
3.2 Year———.Month———.Date :———.
3.3 Age on the closing date of application :———.
Years :———. Months :———.Days :———.
4.0 Service (Public Management Assistant’ Service/Provincial Public
Management Assistants Service/Local Government Public
Management Assistant’ Service). (Delete whichever is
inapplicable) :———.
4.1 Date of first appointment to the Public Service/Provincial
Service/Local Government Service and Language medium.
(Delete whichever is inapplicable) :———.
5.0 Civil Status (If married - M, if Single - S) :
(Give the relevent letter)
5.1 If married, number of children and their dates of birth and
Ages :———.
6.0 If the spouse is employed, give details (if a Public Officer give
full details) :———.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.25
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.05.2007
488
7.0    Educational Qualifications (with language medium) :——.
8.0   Date of Promotion to :———.
8.1 Class II :———.
8.2 Class I :———.
8.3 The Class to which the applicant is currently attached and
the date of appointment for the same. :———.
9.0   Present Annual Salary :———.
10.0  Experience (Give the number of years) :———.
10.1 Accounts :———.
10.2 Establishment Procedures :———.
11.0  Proficiency :———.
          (a)   Sinhala Language :———.
(b) Tamil Language :———.
(c) English Language :———.
(d) Other Foreign Language :—.
12.0  Ability :———.
12.1 Typing (Sinhala/Tamil/English) :———.
12.2 Use of Computer (Give details) :———.
13.0 If the applicant has previously served in any Sri Lanka  Mission
abroad, give the name of such Mission with dates   :———.
14.0 Any other qualifications :———.
Note.–The receipt issued by the Post Office on payment of
examination fees should be affixed here.
1. Receipt No. :———.
2. Post Office :———.
3. Date :———.
4. Amount :———.
15.0 Applicant’s Certificate :
I do hereby declare that I have earned all increments falling due in
the 5 years immediately preceding 25.06.2007 and have not been
subject to any disciplinary punishment (except warning). I also declare
that to the best of my knowledge the information furnished in this
application is true and accurate. If any false or incorrect information
is found before, during or after the examination or all the necessary
requirements are not fulfilled, the Secretary, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs has the right to cancel my candidature.
I also agree to be bound by the rules govering the examination and
any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to,
during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible
according to the regulations of this examination.
———,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :———.
P
ART  B
(To be filled by the Head of Department)
I do declare that I have verified that Mr/Mrs./Miss …………Class
I/Class II of the Public Management Assistants Service/Provincial
Government  Public Management Assistant Service/Local
Government Public Management Assistant Service.
(a) has earned all increments during the 5 years immediately
preceding  ;
(b) and has not been subject to any disciplinary punishment
during the 5 years immediately preceding 25.06.2007 and
that the information furnished in the application is true.
Recommendation :
(i) Applicant’s suitability for service in Mission abroad :
(ii)Whether he/she can be release/cannot be released promptly,
if selected.
———,
Signature of the Head of
Department with the Official Frank.
Designation :———.
Date :———.
05-446/2
Reading WritingSpoken
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.