

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1327
1327
wxl 1"571 - 2008 Tlaf;dan¾ 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2008'10'10
No. 1,571 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1330
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1331
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th October, 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 03rd October, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.—  Part I/II (A) and  Part  IV (A)  of the Gazette No. 1,570 of 03.10.2008 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1328
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1329
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1330
Posts – Vacant
POLICE    DEPARTMENT
(SPECIAL  TASK  FORCE)
Recruitment of Police Constables and
Police Constable Drivers
AS per the Government Gazette Notification No. 1,530 of 28.12.2007
in connection with the above recruitment, the closing date of
applications 11.10.2008 and applications has been extended 02
months 20 days till 31.12.2008.
Inspector General of Police.
10-321/1
–––––––––––––––––
POLICE    DEPARTMENT
Recruitment of Police Constables, Women Police
Constables and Police Constables Drivers
AS per the Government Gazette Notification No. 1,545 of 11.04.2008
in connection with the above recruitment, the closing date of
applications 11.10.2008 and applications has been extended 02
months 20 days till 31.12.2008.
Inspector General of Police.
10-321/2
––––––––––––
DISTRICT    SECRETARIAT  -  KALUTARA
Vacancy in the Post of Receptionist (Female)
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitable candidates possessing
the relevant qualifications residing in Kalutara District. Application
prepared according to the specimen attached, should be sent under
registered post to reach the District Secretary, Kalutara on or before
the 31st October, 2008. Officers those who are already in public
service should send their applications through the Head of their
Departments.
1. Job Description.– Receive the visitors and general public coming
to the District Secretariat Complex in a curtsies manner and direct
them to the relevant officers and sections according to their
requirement.
2. Age Limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than
45 years of age. (The maximum age limit will not be applicable to
those who are already in the Public Service and Provincial Service.)
3. Education Qualification. – Should have passed the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination in six (06) subjects with credit passes in four (04)
subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language or Literature, Arithmetic/
Commercial Arithmetic/Pure Maths/Elementary Mathematics and
English in not more than two sittings (should have passed five (05)
subjects in one (01) sittings) ; or
Should have pass the G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six (06)
subjects with credit passes in four (04) subjects including Sinhala/
Tamil Language, Mathematics, English in not more than two sittings
(should have passed five (05) subjects in one (01) sittings) ; or
Should have passed the National General Certificate Examination
in six (06) subjects with ‘A’ or ‘B’ grade passes in four (04) subjects
including first language, Mathematic, English ; and
Should be fluent in Sinhala and English Languages. Fluency in
Tamil Languages will be considered as a qualification.
4. 6/2006 (IV) Salary Segment and Scale.– MN 1 Rs. 13,120 - 10
x 145 - 11 x 170 - 10 x 240 - 10 x 320 = Rs. 22,040 (monthly).
5. Conditions of Service.– This post is permanent and pensionable.
Those who are already holding a pensionable post will continue
accordingly. Candidates selected for the post should be prepared to
serve in any part of the Island.
6. Method of Recruitment.– Suitable candidate will be selected by
an interview.
Forwarding of Application. – Applicants should prepare their
applications according to the specimen attached and send them
address to District Secretary, District Secretariat, Kalutara. Under
registered cover on or before the 31st day of October, 2008.
“Recruitment of Receptionist” should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelop inclosing the application. Late applications
and those not complying with the necessary qualifications and
incomplete applications and those not complying with the necessary
qualifications and incomplete applications will be rejected. Decision
of the District Secretary regarding the rejection of the applications
shall be final and conclusive. Rejection and receipt of applications
will not be acknowledged.
S. H
APUARACHCHI,
District Secretary/Government Agent, Kalutara,
Additional Secretary Ministry of Home Affairs.
District Secretariat,
Kalutara.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1331
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF RECEIPTIONIST AT THE DISTRICT
SECRETARIAT - KALUTARA
1. Name with initials of applicant :–––––––––.
2. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––.
3. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
4. Present Postal Address :–––––––––.
5. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka (State by decent or registered) :
–––––––––.
6. Civil Status :–––––––––.
7. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
8. Educational Qualifications :–––––––––.
9. Language ability :–––––––––.
10. Experience :–––––––––.
I certify that the above particulars are true and correct to the
best of my knowledge. I understand that I shall be liable to be
dismissed from service without any compensation if the same
in proved after recruitment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
10–281
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Selection of Candidates to follow the Full Time (Internal)
Course of Post Graduate Diploma in Education in Academic
Year 2008/2009
APPLICATIONS are invited for selection for the study of one year
full time (Internal) Post Graduate Diploma Course during the
academic year 2008/2009.
02. This course will be held in Colombo, Peradeniya and Jaffna
Universities.
03. Course will be conducted in Sinhala and Tamil Medium.
Applications for the Course can be made only in one medium.
Language mediums conducted in each University are indicated
below :
University of Colombo - Sinhala Medium and Tamil Medium
University of Peradeniya - Sinhala Medium
University of Jaffna - Tamil Medium
04. Every candidate should establish that he/she is holding the
following qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should not be more than 50 years of age as on 10.11.2008.
(iii) Should be physically and mentally in good health and
having a good character.
(iv) Should be a Graduate from a recognized University.
(v) Should have obtained a permanent appointment and serving
in a relevant post belonging to the following services :
(a) Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service (Including teachers who
are teaching in Government Approved Private
Schools and in Pirivenas).
(b) Sri Lanka Principals’ Service.
(c) Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service.
(d) Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service.
(vi) Should have completed a service for a period of one year in
a post in the services indicated at para. 04(v) as on
10.11.2008 after obtaining the Degree.
Note :
1. Teachers who apply for the Course from Pirivenas and
approved Private Schools should submit a statement at
interview obtained from The Manager/Administrative
Board Manager certified by him as follows :
(a) That the teacher will be released for the Course;
(b) That salaries will be paid to the teachers during the
period of study of the Course;
(c) That the teacher will be re-deployed at the end of the
Course;
(d) That a request will not be made for a substitute teacher;
(e) That the duties of the teacher will be distributed among
the approved teaching staff of the school.
2. Teachers who are on study leave and serving under a bond
will be qualified to apply only if they have completed the
compulsory period of service indicated in the bond as on
10.11.2008 or have completed at least five (5) years out of
that period.
3. Candidates who have followed the Post Graduate Diploma
in Education in a University or in the National Institute of

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1332
Education and those having Bachelor of Education Degree
will not be eligible to apply for the study of this Course.
4. Graduate teachers who apply for study of course at the
University of Peradeniya who have obtained their
appointments in year 2005 or thereafter should have
completed the course of orientation of new graduate
teachers to the profession.
5.1 Method of Selection :
(i) Every candidate should appear for a written
examination.
(ii) Candidates will be called for the interview according
to the order of marks obtained by them at the written
examination and the number to be called for the
interview will be three times the number of candidates
to be admitted for the Course.
(iii) Marks will be allocated at the interview for the period
of service in the post of the service the candidate is
belonging to indicated at 4(V) in the Gazette
Notification. Marks will be allocated at the rate of 04
marks for each year of service, maximum number of
marks granted will be 40. Period of service of a
candidate will be calculated from the date he/she
assumed duties in the post.
(iv) The total of the marks obtained at the written
examination and the marks for the period of service
will be treated as the final marks and the selection for
the Course will be made according to the order of such
marks.
(v) If dis-abled candidates have applied for the Course
1% of the number of candidates selected will be
reserved for them.
(vi) The number of candidates to be selected for the Course
will be decided according to the accommodation
available in each University.
5.2 Written Examination :
(i) The written examination for selection conducted by
the Commissioner General of Examinations will be
held in Sinhala and Tamil Languages in Colombo and
Jaffna.
(ii) Candidates may appear for the examination at one of
the two centers indicated above preferred by them
and in a medium they prefer.
(iii) Candidates should act in accordance with the rules
and regulations published by the Commissioner
General of Examination relating to the examination.
(iv) Written examination will consist of two question
papers:
(a) General Knowledge.– Question Paper on Current
Affairs, General Knowledge, Educational
Information and problems (Time 01 Hour);
(b) Aptitude Test.– Question Paper on Language ability,
comprehension, Logic, Arithmetical skills (Time 01
hour 30 minutes).
5.3 Interview :
(i) At the interview candidates should establish that they
are qualified to follow the Course under para. 04 in the
Gazette Notification.
(ii) Candidates should submit to the Interview Board the
documents required to establish their period of service
in the post/posts relevant ot para. 4(V) in the  Gazette
Notification. Specially the date of assuming duties in
the Post should be established at the interview. It will
be helpful for the candidate in obtaining the marks
assigned for the period of service.
06. Method for submission of Applications :
(i) Applications should be prepared by using both sides of
A4 size Paper in conformity with the given specimen
form.
(ii) Regarding applications made for candidates who are
visually impaired/hearing impaired/ having other special
needs the words ‘An applicant Visually Impaired/Hearing
Impaired/having other Special Needs’ should be written in
red on the top left hand corner of such applications.
(iii) Payment of Examination Fees.– As examination fees a sum
of Rs. 300 should be paid at the nearest Post Office and
the receipt obtained should be affixed in the cage provided
for in the application. Post Master General has been
notified by the Commissioner General of Examinations to
make provisions for the issues of this receipt at all Post
Offices from 10.10.2008 up to 10.11.2008.
(iv) Submission of Applications :
(a) The words ‘Post Graduate Diploma in Education
(Internal) Course’ should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
(b) Applications should be sent under registered post to
be received on or before 10.11.2008 addressed to
Commissioner General of Examinations, Department
of Examinations, Evaluation and Testing Service,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
(v) Time Table and the Admission Cards will be posted to the
candidates and if any candidate does not receive his
Admission Card at least 07 days before the date of the

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1333
examination he/she should inform accordingly to the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta Battaramulla along with the
following information :
(a) Name of examination :
(b) Candidate’s name in full :
(c) Address :
(d) Post Office where fees were paid and receipt No. :
(e) Date of posting the application :
(f) Post Office of posting the application and Receipt
No. :
(vi) Refund of examination fees or transfer of fees for any
other examination will be not be made for any reason
whatsoever.
(vii) Incomplete applications will be rejected without any
notification.
(viii) Every candidate should establish his identity at the written
examination by a valid identity card.
(ix) It will not be allowed to change the University after
selecting candidates for a particular University for following
the Course.
(x) Even after the selection, if it is revealed that a particular
candidate has not fulfilled the requirements according to
the Gazette Notification the selection of such candidate is
liable to be cancelled.
07. Study Leave.– Full pay and study leave will be granted to the
candidates to follow this Course. For this purpose the study leave of
officers in Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service, Sri Lanka
Teacher Educators’ Service and those Serving in the staff of National
Schools, Private Schools and Pirivenas will be approved by the
Secretary of the Ministry of Education while the approval of study
leave of other officers should be made by the Provincial Secretary of
Education.
08. Bond.– Candidates who are selected for the Course should
sign a Security Bond with the Secretary Education/Provincial Director
of Education that he/she will after successfully completing this course
serve in the Department for a minimum period of three and half
(3 1/2) years. When the cost of training is exceeding Rs. 10,000 the
compulsory period of service under the Security Bond will be decided
in accordance with the rules and regulations stipulated in the
Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
09. If any selected candidate fails to obtain his Diploma Certificate
within the stipulated period without successfully completing this
Course owing to reasons within his control the salaries and allowances
paid to him during the period of study leave should be fully recovered
from him/her.
10. If the work, conduct and attendance of the students are found
to be Unsatisfactory during the period of study of the Course they
will be removed from the Course.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil
or English Texts of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Isurupaya,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
25th September, 2008.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
S
ELECTION OF CANDIDATE TO FOLLOW THE FULL TIME (INTERNAL) COURSE OF POST GRADUATE DIPLOMA IN EDUCATION 2008/2009
For Office use
University applied for the Course Medium applied for Examination Center applied
(Colombo/Peradeniya/Jaffna) (Sinhala/Tamil) (Colombo/Jaffna)
01. (i) Name with initials in English Capital leters (Surname first) :–––––––––––.
Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––––.
Example : Mr. Silva, A. B. C.
(ii) Name in full (In English Capital letters) :–––––––––––.
02. (i) Official address (In English Capital letters) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private address (In English Capital letters) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Location of School/Institute serving (In English Capital letters) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1334
Province District Zone
(iv) Nature of Institute (Govt. School/Private School/Pirivena/Other) :–––––––––––.
03. (i) Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––––, Month :–––––––––––, Date :–––––––––––.
(ii) Age as on 10.11.2008 :
Years :–––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––.
04. Details of Degree :
Degree Period of Study Year of Date of Degree Nature of Institute/ Degree
of Course in Passing V alidity of Subjects the pass University (Internal/
the University Degree Degree (General/ External)
(From ........ Class)
To .........)
05. (i) Post in the first appointment :–––––––––––. Date of first appointment :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date of posting to the post indicated in section 04(v) in Gazette Notification :–––––––––––.
(iii) Date of assuming duties in the post :–––––––––––.
(iv) Period of service in a post in Teachers’ Service/Principals’ Service/Educational Administrative Service/Teacher Educators
Service on 10.11.2008 after obtaining the Degree :–––––––––––.
06. (i) Detaile of Professional Training
Institute of studying the Course Duration of Study of Course in the
Course (Teachers’ College/NCOE or (Subject Area) Institute
other)
From                          To
(ii) Have you followed the course of orientation of new graduate teachers to the profession (This is only for Graduate teachers
appointed in year 2005 or thereafter) :–––––––––––.
07. Details of study leave obtained :
Reason for study leave Duration of the Bond Balance period ahead for
From .......................... completion of Bond
To ...........................
Note.– Period of study of the National Diploma in Teaching in a National College of Education will not be treated as study leave
08. Whether any disciplinary action is pending against candidate ? (Yes/No) :–––––––––––.
If so, details, Should be given :–––––––––––.
09. Receipt obtained for payment of fees I certify that a sum of Rs. 300 in figures was paid to
To be affixed here Post/Sub Post Office :–––––––––––.
Under receipt No. :–––––––––––. dated :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1335
10. Candidate’s Declaration :
I hereby certify that all details indicated in this application are true and correct and I am eligible to study this Course under paragraph
04 in Gazette Notification dated 10.10.2008 and I will abide by the rules and regulations in the Examination Act for candidates and also
I have affixed hereto a valid receipt for payment of the prescribed examination fees.
–––––––––––,
Candidate’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
11. Recommendation relating to release from the Institute for the Course :
(Principal/President NCoE/Manager/Manager Administrative Board or Head of Department) :
If the above candidate is selected for the study of this Course he/she can be released/cannot be released in consideration of t he
requirement of the study of a Professional Course.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Principal/Head of Institute and Official Frank.
Date :–––––––––––.
10–351
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission to National College of Education to follow a Pre-school Professional
Course in Teacher Education - 2009
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from those with requisite academic qualifications and Eligibility to follow a Three Year Pre Servic e
Professional Course in Teacher Education in National Colleges of Education.
2.0 Eligibility- Every applicant should -
2.1 Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2.2 Possess an excellent character and sound physical and mental health ;
2.3 Age :
2.3.1 Should not be more than 25 years of age as 01.01.2009 ;
2.4 Should be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications :
3.1 Should have passed three subjects in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007  (Two passes for Sri Pada
National College of Education).
(Applicants for Technological Studies Course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.6).
3.2 Should have passed  six core subjects  including Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil Language with three Credit passes at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings. (Should have passed at least 5 Core subjects at the first sitting).
3.3 If the Special requirements in the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination mentioned under 3.2 have not been completed in two sittings,
they should have been completed at the third sitting. Special requirements will be considered only if the applicants have
completed the basic qualifications indicated at 3.2 above. If Special qualifications have not been especially mentioned ; only
the qualifications mentioned under 3.2 will be considered.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1336
3.4 English Language proficiency for the English Language Course and English Medium Courses.
3.4.1 Those who apply for English Medium courses except for English Language Course should have obtained a Credit
pass in English/Ordinary pass in English Literature at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination ;
3.4.2 Applicants for the English Language Course should have obtained Very Good Pass in English Language/Credit Pass
in English Literature. A Credit for English or an Ordinary  Pass for English Literature at G .C.E. (O/L) will be
sufficient if the applicants have passed English Language as a subject in G.C.E. (A/L). However, in case of obtaining
the same mark by two or more applicants, performance at G .C.E. (O/L) in English and English Literature will be
considered (Distinction or Very Good Pass in English/Distinction/Very Good Pass or Credit Pass in English Literature).
3.4.3 Although the Courses in Western Music and Information Communication Technology are conducted in English
Medium, the applicants are selected from those who have appeared G .C.E. (A/L) in Sinhala or Tamil Medium.
3.5 All applicants should fulfill their requirements on  or before the closing date of applications.
4.0 Educational Qualifications and Other Special Requirements :
Educational qualifications and other special requirements applicable to each Course in National Colleges of Education are as
follows :
4.1 Course No. 01 - English
4.1.1 Passed any three subjects at G .C.E. (A/L) Examination in Year  2007 including English Language (Not general
English) with Credit pass for English Language / Ordinary pass in English Literature at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination /
London G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects ; or
4.1.2 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year  2007 and three passes including
English at London G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 and Credit pass in English Language/ Ordinary pass
in English Literature at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination/London G. C. E. (O/L) Examination  and passed six subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics ; or
4.1.3 Passed any three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination  held  in Year  2007 and passed  G.C.E. (O/L) Examination  in
six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics with a very good pass in English Language/
Credit pass in English Literature.
Note :
(i) Priority will be given to those who qualify under 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 they do not need to sit the proficiency test.
Their qualifications should be proved at the interview.
(ii) Applicants who are qualified under 4.1.3. should appear for the Selection Test.
4.2 Course No. 02 - Science (Tamil).
4.2.1 Three passes in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 in the following subjects : Botany,
Zoology, Physics, Chemistry and Biology (Two passes in above subjects for Sri Pada National College of Education)
; And
4.2.2 Passed at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Mathematics 32 or Mathematics 42
4.3 Course No. 03 - Mathematics (Tamil)
4.3.1 Three passes at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2007 in the following subjects :  Mathematics, Combined
Mathematics, Higher Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry. (Two passes including Mathematics, Combined
Mathematics and higher Mathematics for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1337
4.3.2 Passed at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Science 34
4.4 Course No. 04 - Physical Education (Sinhala)
04 - Physical Education (Tamil)
4.4.1 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 ; and
4.4.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Health and Physical
Education and Mathematics ; and
4.4.3 Achievements /performances of the recognized Track and Field Athletics and Organized Sports. A maximum of 75
marks will be awarded for three various games/events in the following priority order.
PRIORITY ORDER OF SPORTS /EVENTS
Se. No. Levels/Subjects Single Team Place/Grade Marks
1 International Level single ---- 1 25
2 International Level single ---- 2 24
3 International Level single ---- 3 23
4 International Level ---- team 1 22
5 International Level ---- team 2 21
6 International Level ---- team 3 20
7 International Level single team ---- 19
participation
8 National Level single ---- 1 18
9 National Level single ---- 2 17
10 National Level single ---- 3 16
11 National Level ---- team 1 15
12 National Level ---- team 2 14
13 National Level ---- team 3 13
14 Provincial Level single ---- 1 12
15 Provincial Level single ---- 2 11
16 Provincial Level single ---- 3 10
17 Provincial Level ---- team 1 09
18 Provincial Level ---- team 2 08
19 Provincial Level ---- team 3 07
20 Regiment Sergeant Major ---- ---- ---- 06
/Warrant Officer 1
21 Presidents’ Scout/Girl Guide ---- ---- ---- 06
22 Sergeant Major /Warrant ---- ---- ---- 05
Officer 2
23 District Level/Zonal/ single ---- 1 06
Divisional Secretariat Level
24 District Level.Zonal/ single ---- 2 05
Divisional Secretariat Level
25 District Level/Zonal / single ---- 3 04
Divisional Secretariat Level
26 District Level/Zonal / ---- team 1 03
Divisional Secretariat Level
27 District Level/Zonal / ---- team 2 02
Divisional Secretariat Level
28 District Level/Zonal / ---- team 3 01
Divisional Secretariat Level

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1338
4.4.4 Following marks will be awarded for passes obtained for the Health and Physical Education at G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
A Pass - 05
B Pass - 03
C Pass - 02
Note:
(i) Recognized Sports Competitions (International) - Participation at International Competitions representing Sri
Lanka National Teams or School National Sports Teams (except Chess, Carom and Draught) through Ministry
of Education / Ministry of Sports and their registered sports Associations (Participation in International
Competitions on personal basis by school sports teams will not be considered).
(ii) Recognized Sports Competitions - National level competitions organized by the Ministry of Education/
Ministry of Sports/National Youth Services Council.
Provincial level competitions organized by the Provincial Minsitry of Education /Provincial Ministry of
Sports /National Youth Services Council
District Level Competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education/Provincial Ministry of Sports
/National Youth Services Council
Zonal level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education.
(iii) 1st 2nd and 3rd places in "A" Grade competitions organized by Sports Associations registered  under the
Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Education will only be given priority in order.
(iv) Certificates gained for Sports performance/achievements within the preceding five years before the closing
date of the application will only be valid.
(v) Marks will be awarded to the highest certificate obtained for the same event in the same year out of three
certificates.
4.5 Course No. 05 - Special Education
4.5.1 Passed any three subjects at G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 ;  And
4.5.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.
4.6 Course No. 06 - Technical Studies.
4.6.1 Passed in 03 subjects in the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 ; And
4.6.2 Pass in G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
4.6.2.1 Design and Technology
Passed 6 core subjects at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language, and
one subject out of the followings, Wood work, Masonry/ construction Technology/ Metal Work/Motor
Mechanism/Mechanical Technology /Radio Mechanism/ Electric and Electronic Technology.
4.6.2.2 Crafts and Arts
Passed six core subjects in G .C.E. (O/L) Examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language and
one other subject out of Weaving/Pottery/Craft and Art ;  and
4.6.3. Followed and successfully completed a Technical Course relevant to the subject are a  of not less than 10 months
duration which is formally issued indicating the subject performance level and conducted by a Government approved

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1339
Technical College / National Apprentice Board / V ocational Training Authority / Textile Industries Department /small
Industries Department.
Note : (i) Priority order of selection
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.6.1.,4.6.2. and 4.6.3
(b) Applicants having Certificates 4.6.1 and 4.6.3.
(c) Applicants having Certificates 4.6.1 and 4.6.2.
If a sufficient  number of applicants who have passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination  in Year 2007 and fulfill qualifications
as per  (a) are not available, the applicants who have passed G.C.E (A/L)  Examination in Year 2006 and Year 2005
are fulfilled qualifications as per (a) will be considered.
(ii) In the application, it should be clearly stated as Design and Technology / Crafts and Art.
(iii) All requirements indicated above should have been completed on or before the closing date of the applications.
(iv) Please indicate the ‘Name of the technical course’ in the cage provided under 13.0 in the application the
priority order for which application is forwarded under (a), (b) and (c) above.
4.7 Course No. 07 - Western Music
4.7.1. Passed in three  subjects in the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 including Western Music in one Sitting ;
and
Passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six  Core subjects with passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music and , with a Credit pass for English Language or an ordinary pass for English Literature ;
or
4.7.2 Passed in any three  subjects in the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 ;
and
Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music with a Credit pass in English Language or an ordinary pass in English Literature ;
and
Passed Grade five in Western Music (Theory and Practical) from a recognized institute approved by the College of
Education Board ;
or
Passed Western Music at   G .C.E. (A/L) Examination as an additional Subject.
Note:
(i) Applicants should reach a satisfactory level of performance at the practical  test conducted  for Western Music
Course.
(ii) In selection, priority will be given to applicants qualifying under 4.7.1.
4.8 Course No. 08 - Information Communication Technology.
4.8.1 Passed in any three subjects at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination  held in Year 2007  (Two subjects for Sri Pada National
College of Education) ;
and
4.8.2. Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and with a Credit pass for
English Language /an ordinary pass for English Literature and credit pass for Mathematics.
Note:  (Applicants who apply for this Course should appear for a Selection Test).
4.9. Course No. 09 - Second National Language (Sinhala).
4.9.1 Passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Sinhala ;
and
4.9.2. Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala Language.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1340
Note.– The priority will be given in order to those who have followed Tamil as a Second National Language / Optional
Second National Language at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination  or Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in
Tamil issued by the Official Language Department.
4.10 Course No. 10 - Second National Language (Tamil)
4.10.1 Passed G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2007 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Tamil ;
and
4.10.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Tamil Language.
Note :   The priority will be given in order to those who have followed Sinhala as a Second National Language / Optional
Second National Language at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination  or Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in
Sinhala issued by the Official Language Department.
4.11 Course No. 11 French
4.11.1 Passed  G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2007 in three subjects including French ;
and
4.11.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination  in six core subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language and with
a Credit Pass in English Language /an Ordinary Pass in English Literature.
Note: Courses for Western Music and Information Communication Technology will be conducted only in English Medium.
5.0 Procedure for Selection of trainees for Year 2009
5.1 Basis of selection :
5.1.1 The number of trainees to be admitted will be decided based on the teacher carder requirements in the school system
in the year 2012.
5.1.2 The basis of selection  will be achievement of Z Score, Student will be selected for English/Information Communication
Technology/Physical Education on Proficiency Test/achievement in sports. The Z Score will be affected when it is
needed to select one student from several students those who have same marks. Selections for all the course will be
30% on National Level and 70% on Difficult District Level except for Sri Pada National College of Education.
5.1.3 Applicants who prefer to follow English Medium courses Western Music and Information Communication Technology
should qualify with a Credit Pass in the English Language or an Ordinary Pass for English Literature. Applicants for
English Language Course should have obtained a very good pass in English Language or Credit Pass in English
Literature at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination including six core subjects with Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics.
5.1.4 Applicants should reach a satisfactory level at the Practical Test conducted for Physical Education and Western
Music.
5.2 Difficult District Basis :
5.2.1 Admission for difficult districts will be made from applicants belonging to the 17 districts deemed as difficult based
on the distribution of educational facilities. (Matale, Mullativu, Anuradhapura, Nuwara Eliya, Vavuniya, Polonnaruwa,
Hambantota, Trincomalee, Badulla, Jaffna, Baticaloa, Moneragala, Kilinochchi, Ampara, Ratnapura, Mannar, Puttalam)
Number to be admitted from each district will be decided for each course proportional to the number of students
appear for G . C. E. (A/L) - 2007 Examination in all media in respective districts.
5.2.2 If the expected number from relevant difficult district is not available, vacancies will be filled from other difficult
districts.
5.2.3 Determination of districts.
5.2.3.1 The district of any school applicant will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or major part of the Five years (more than 2 1/2 years) period ending on the

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1341
last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G . C. E. (A/L)
examination at the first sitting.
5.2.3.2 If any private applicant had left the school after having previously sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination as a
school applicant, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school from which he/she had first
sat the above examination.
5.2.3.3 If any private applicant has left the school without having previously sat for the G . C. E. (A/L) examination
as a school candidate, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/
she had studied during the entire or the major part of the five years (more than 2 1/2) years period ending
on the last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G . C. E. (A/L)
examination at the first sitting.
5.2.3.4 If any private appilcant has not studied in a school, he/she should confirm his/her District of residence with
the V oter’s list of Election Commissioners Office or Grama Niladhari and Divisional Secretary’s affidavit.
5.3 Selection for Sri Pada National College of Education
5.3.1 75% of the vacancies will be filled from applicants of the Indian Tamil Origin and 25% from Sinhalese applicants.
5.3.2 75% will be selected to Tamil Medium Courses while 25% will be selected to Sinhala Medium Courses.
5.3.3 Second National Language (Sinhala) Courses will be conducted in Sinhala medium, Mathematics, Science and Second
National Language (Tamil) Courses will be conducted in Tamil Medium.
5.3.4 Applications for admission to Sri Pada National College of Education will be entertained only from children of the
residents in Nuwara Eliya, Kandy, Matale, Badulla, Moneragala, Ratnapura, Kegalle, Kalutara, Matara, Galle and
Kurunegala Plantation Districts.
5.3.5 In the selection, priority will be given to the children of the workers who are residing in the eleven plantation sector
districts indicated above.  At the  interview the children of the  employees in the State and Private Sector Estate
Companies should submit a letter from the Estate Superintendent relating to service (with employee’s period of
service), a certificate from the Estate Superintendent to the effect that he is permanently serving for the past period
of 05 years or more, candidate’s letter agreeing to serve a period of ten years continuously in the schools in the
plantation sector after the training. And letters to prove that deductions are being done for the Employees Provident
Fund including Registration Numbers. Paragraph 5.2.2 will be applied for the applicants of Sri Pada National College
of Education when deciding district of applicants.
5.3.6 If a sufficient number of Candidates having above qualifications are not available, Candidate who served in estates
earlier and who are presently residing outside estates will be considered although they are not working in estate at
present.
5.3.7 If it is not possible to select a sufficient number of candidates under 5.3.7 the balance number of vacancies will be
filled by interviews conducted for selecting for the other Sinhala Medium Courses.
5.3.8 In selection, at least one applicant will be considered for each relevant district.
Note.- In the case of an applicant having an Indian Tamil origin who had studied in Sinhala Medium will be considered
for the percentage entitled to Indian Tamil origin. Similarly, a Sinhalese applicant who had studied in Tamil
Medium will be considered for the Sinhala Medium percentage.
6.0 Other Matters related to Selection :
6.1 Selected applicants should be prepared to submit acceptable evidence and originals of certificates to confirm their eligibility
on the date of conducting the interview. A number of applicants more than the number of vacancies will be called for the
interview.
6.2 Applicants who fail to submit the originals of all certificates will not be considered.
6.3 When a problematic situation is observed relating to the mental and physical fitness required by an applicant for reaching the
expected level in the Course and the Interview Board is not satisfied of this position he/she should be subjected to a special

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1342
interview and after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board the decision taken by the Board should
be implemented.
6.4 If the selected applicant fails to get registered in the relevant College of Education within 03 days from the due date he/s he
will be deprived of the opportunity for the admission. The vacancies created thereby, will be filled according to the merit
order.
6.5 Selected applicants are required to appear for a Medical Examination before their admission to a College of Education to
ascertain whether they are physically and mentally fit for service in any part of the island.
6.6 After the admission to any Course/National College of Education permission will not be granted to change such Course/
College of Education. If a sufficient number of applicants are not available for a particular Course the applicants will be
transferred to the nearest College of Education where such Courses are conducted.
6.7 In selecting applicants for a Course, if the number of applicants who have obtained equivalent Z Score at the G. C. E. (A/L)
is in excess of the number of vacancies available, the results obtained by the applicants at  the G . C. E. (O/L) at the first
sitting will be considered. Marks will be awarded as 03 marks for a Distinction pass, 02 marks for a Credit pass and 01 marks
for an Ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the total number of marks obtained. The
award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects.
7.0 Persons Who are not Eligible to Apply or to get admitted
7.1 Those who have already obtained teaching appointments in Government or in Private Schoools.
7.2 Those who have been selected for an appointment in a Government School.
7.3 Those who are following or who have followed a Course in a College of Education.
7.4 Those who are following or have followed a Degree Course in a University or University Institute or other Higher Education
Institute where G . C. E. (A/L) is the entry requirement.
7.5 Those who have been discontinued from a College of Education on disciplinary ground.
8.0 Conditions applicable for Training :
8.1 Duration of a Training Course is three years. This period consists of two years residential institutional training in the
National College of Education and one year internship training while being attached to a school. Attendance of a student
teacher should be not less than 90% to enable him/her to sit for the External Final Examination conducted by the Department
of Examinations at the end of the second year.
8.2 Every trainee should pass the Internal Continuous Tests held in the first and second year. Internal Test conducted at the en d
of the second year and the external final examination conducted by the Department of Examinations. Likewise, those who
follow the English Medium Courses and those who follow all other Courses should get a pass in the English subject at the
above examinations. Applications should be forwarded only by those who agree to the above conditions.
8.3 During the period of two years residential training a trainee will be provided with meals and lodging facilities to the value of
Rs. 2,000 per month for ten months in a year. During the Internship year a monthly allowance of Rs. 2,500 will be paid for
ten months. Other expenses for personal requirements should borne by the trainee.
8.4 During the period of training a trainee will not be allowed to follow an Academic Course as an internal student in a
University, University Institution or other Higher Education Institute where G . C. E. (A/L) is treated as the entry requirement.
If it is proved that a trainee had followed such a Course all expenses incurred for him/her will be surcharged and the trainee
will be removed from the Course.
8.5 If the trainees get married during the period of training their studentship will be cancelled.
8.6 If a trainee fails to exhibit the progress expected in his general conduct, enthusiasm and in his studies during the period of
training he will be removed from training. Likewise, those who do not reach a satisfactory level in the assessment during the

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1343
first year of academic training or found to be following any other Course in an Institute as indicated at 8.4 they will be
removed from the Course. Regarding these matters the decision made by the Colleges of Education Board shall be the final
decision.
8.7 If any complaints are received relating to the physical and mental fitness of the trainee either by the President of the College
during the period of training or by the Principal of the school during the Internship period the trainee will be referred to a
Special Interview Board. A final decision will be taken after the submission of. This report to the Colleges of Education
Board.
8.8 Trainees should enter into an Agreement with the Ministry of Education with an undertaking to pay back the cost incurred
by the Ministry in providing training if they would leave the training before the completion of the specified period of three
years training course.
8.9 National Diploma in Teaching will be awarded to the trainees who will successfully complete the Training Course. Course
work and Personality Development (inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will be continuously assessed during
the period of training and this assessment will form a component of the final assessment in awarding the Diploma.
8.10 Applicants successfully completing this Course will be considered for grant of appointments as teachers based on the
availability of vacancies on Education Zonal Level in difficult districts.
8.10.1 In future priority will be given to those who complete this Training Course in awarding teaching appointments for
Government Schools. Therefore the candidates who are invited for the interviews for selecting to the above Course
should appear for the interview only if would agree to the above conditions.
8.10.2 Applicants who receive their training under the above conditions should enter into an Agreement with the Secretary
of the Ministry of Education that they will serve under the Ministry of Education for a minimum period of five (5)
years from the date of appointment in the Difficult District/Education Zone they have been appointed. The
Education Zone for which the appointment has been given will not be changed for any reason whatsoever.
8.11 Applicants who get registered in a National College of Education should sign a Bond for Rs. 500,000 for the cost to be
incurred for providing training and for supply of infra structure facilities. A student who leave the Course half way or who
fail to serve for five years under the Government will be subjected to a condition for paying the total amount in the bond to
the Government.
8.12 All educational and other qualifications should have been completed on or before the last date of calling for applications.
9.0 Application
9.1 An applicant can apply for a maximum of 03 courses.
9.2 An applicant can enclose only one application and two of its certified copies in the same envelope. If any applicant has
submitted applications other than the above mentioned application and the two certified copies all the applications will be
rejected.
9.3 Application should be prepared according to the Specimen Form and instructions given below.
9.4 Applications should be sent under registered post and addressed to Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education), Colleges of
Education Branch, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla to be received on or before 31.10.2008.
The following words should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application :
‘Application for Admission to National Colleges of Education 2009
Course indicated as first preference .......... and Number ...............’.
(It is stressed that applications should not be sent to Department of Examinations or to National Colleges of Education).
9.5 The postal receipt of registration issued in forwarding the application and a photo copy of the application should be sent
in all instances of making inquiries or submitting appeals. Hence, these documents should be kept with the candidate.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1344
9.6 Applications which do not clearly indicate the Index Number, year and course Number as well as the incomplete and
informal applications will be rejected.
9.7 Applications will not be acknowledged.
9.8 No other document should be attached to the application.
9.9 If any certificate submitted by the candidate is revealed later to be a forged or fraudulent certificate the candidate will be
dismissed from service and he will be ineligible for any post in Public Service.
10.0 Regarding any problems arising with regard to the above information in this Gazette Notification the decision of the Colleges of
Education Board will be the final decision.
11.0 In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil or English Texts of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala Text shall
prevail.
M. M. N. D. B ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
25th September, 2008.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE PREPARATION OF APPLICATION FORM
1.0 Read the Gazette Notification very carefully. Apply only three courses to which you are eligible. Submit only one application form
with two of its photcopies enclosed in one envelope. (School applicants should get the photo copies certified by the Principal
while the private applicants should get them certified by a Justice of the Peace)
2.0 Application should be prepared in a A4 size white paper (21 x 29.7c.m.) in conformity with the specimen form. Paragraphs 1.0
to 09.3 should be included in the first page. In places where information has to be given in a cage, mark “x” in the relevant cage.
3.0 Please note that the Computer Data relating to each Course used for calling applicants for the interview are prepared based on the
information given from 1.0 to 09.3 in the first page. Specially the Course Number, Index Number of G . C. E. (A/L) and Z Score
should be confirmed as accurate. Please note that the application is liable to be rejected owing to overlapped writing and ille gible
and erroneous writing.
4.0 The Information given in paragraph 12.0 for Physical Education Course, paragraph 13.0 for Buddhism Course, paragraph 14.0 for
Technological studies and paragraph 15.0 for Western Music Course should be considered carefully in filling the application. The
information specified will not be changed under any circumstances.
5.0 Numbers assigned to the districts are indicated below :
Colombo 01 Hambantota 09 Amparai 17
Gampaha 02 Jaffna 10 Puttalam 18
Kalutara 03 Kilinochchi 11 Kurunegala 19
Matale 04 Mannar 12 Anuradhapura 20
Kandy 05 Mullativu 13 Polonnaruwa 21
Nuwara Eliya 06 Vavuniya 14 Badulla 22
Galle 07 Trincomalee 15 Moneragala 23
Matara 08 Baticaloa 16 Kegalle 24
Ratnapura 25
6.0 Symbol for each Medium : Sinhala - S, Tamil - T, English - E

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1345
Specimen Application Form
ADMISSION TO NATIONAL COLLEGES OF EDUCATION - 2009
Only for Office use
(An applicant should submit only one application and two certified photo copies of the application enclosed in one envelope. Applications
which are not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected. Details up to paragraph 09 in application should be
included in the first page. Computer data required for the selection interview will be prepared out of the information given from 1.0 - 9.3)
1.0
Preference Course Number Medium - S/T/E Zone Number
1
2
3
2.0 2.1 Name with initials in English (In Block letter) Example : PERERA R. C.
Mr./Miss. :–––––––––––.
2.2 Name in full in English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
3.0 Permanent residential addres :
In English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
4.0 According to para 5.2.4 in Gazette Notification :
District :–––––––––––. District No.
5.0 5.1 Date of Birth :
Y ear Month  Date
5.2 National Identity Card No.
6.0 Sex : Male 1 Female 2
7.0 Ethnicity :
Sinhalese Sri Lankan Tamil Indian Tamil Muslim Others
12 3 4 5
8.0 Results of G. C. E. (A/L) in Year 2007 :
8.1 Y ear
8.2 Index No.
8.3 Z score                    .
8.4 Details of results subject wise
Subject Subject No. Grade
1. ........................ ........................ ........................
2. ........................ ........................ ........................
3. ........................ ........................ ........................
9.0 9.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for English and English medium Courses at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination for
English Language and English Literature
Year :
Index No.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1346
9.2 An applicant for Sri Pada National College of Education should indicate whether you are a state worker’s child by marking
‘x’ in the relevant cage)
Yes 1 N o 2
9.3 Total marks included for section 12.0 in the application by applicants for Physical Education Sinhala/Tamil
10.0 If you have sat the G. C. E. (A/L) examination prior to year 2007, please indicate details in full in each sitting even if you
appeared for only one subject :
10.1 No. of sitting for the examination 1 2
10.2 Y ear ........... ..............
10.3 Index No. ........... ..............
10.4 Examination Center No. ........... ..............
10.5 Z Score ........... ..............
10.6 Subjects passed and grades ........... ..............
Subject Grade Subject Grade
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
11.0 Details of G . C. E. (O/L) passed :
11.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2 3
11.2 Y ear .............. ............. ..............
11.3 Index No. .............. ............. ..............
11.4 Examination Centre No. .............. ............. ..............
11.5 Subjects and Grades passed .............. ............. ..............
1st sitting 2nd sitting 3rd sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
2. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
3. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
4. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
5. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
6. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
7. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
8. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
Particulars of sports competency according to the clause 4.4.3 in Para 4.4 of the Gazette Notification (Only those who
apply for Physical Education Course should complete). It is necessary to give your attention to all the clauses in 4.4.3 when
you complete this part. Particulars of only highest three sports/competency will be sufficient.
If you have passed Health and Physical Education in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination, state the relevant mark according to the
grade as in 4.4.4, must be mentioned below.
The total number of marks of your competency on sports should be included in 09.3 in the first page of this application.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1347
Certificate of sports competency :
No. Year Ministry/Institute/ Represented for Event/Sports Place Relevant
Clubs issued Competitions-Inter-National/ obtained Marks for
National/Provincial/District/ 4.4.3
Zonal
1
2
3
If you sat for Health and Physical Education in G . C. E. (O/L), Grade Marks
Total Marks
13.0 Results (if any) of Pracheena Preliminary, Bauddha Dharmacharya, Pirivena Final examination according to 4.7 of the Gazette
Notification :
Examination Pracheena Bauddha Pirivena Final Daham Pasal
Preliminary Dharmacharya Final
13.1 Y ear
13.2 Index No.
13.3 Center No.
13.4 Subject Grade 1 1 1
22 2
33 3
44 4
55
66
7
8
9
10
11
14.0 The applicants who have successfully completed a Technology Studies in a recognize Government Institute and hope to follow the
Technical Skills Course Para 4.11 should fill in the following table :
Name of the Number and Date Institute that Duration Whether successfully
Technical Registration in conducted the completed the course
Course Government Course
15.0 Applicants for the Western Music according in terms of para 4.14.1 and 4.14.2 in the Gazette notification should include relevant
particulars :
Year Institute issuing Certificate Proficiency/class passed

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2008
1348
16.0 Declaration of the applicant :
(i) I have forwarded only one application and two photo copies of it. I am aware that all my applications will be rejected if I
send more than one application.
(ii) I certify that the particulars given by me are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars given by me in this application
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected before selection or to be discontinued if detect ed
after selection.
(iii) I declare that I have not applied for University admission and that I am not registered for following a course in a University/
University Institute/affiliated University College/any other Education Institute.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
17. Declaration by the Head of School/Pirivena in respect of School/Pirivena applicants. -
I certify that this applicant sat G. C. E. (O/L) examination and G . C. E. (A/L) examination/Pracheena Preliminary Final examination
as a student of this School/Pirivena and that the particular given above by the applicant are correct according to my knowledge and
that the Aggregate marks/Z-Score ...................... (writing words) obtain by the applicant at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examinati on in the
year ...................... is according to the official sheets issued by the Commissioner-General of Examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the principal/Head of the Pirivena.
Name of Principal of School/Head of Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Name and address of School/Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––.
18. Declaration in respect of private appliants -
I certify that the aggreqate marks/Z-Score obtained by me in the G. C. E. (A/L) examination in the year ............ is ....... ...... (write
in words) according to the Official result sheet issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations, is ....................... .
–––––––––––,
Applicant’s signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Signed before me.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Justice of the Peace.
Name :–––––––––––,
Official Frank :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
10–350
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.