

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2125$50 - 2019 uehs ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'05'30
No. 2125/50  - THURSDAY,  MAY  30,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
 PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A—G  30198  – 35  (05/2019)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No: CI/1260
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Hatton
National Bank PLC, No. 479, T.B. Jayah Mawatha,
Colombo 10 of the one part and the Ceylon Bank Employees
Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part
on 12th October 2018 is hereby published in terms of
Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of
the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition
1956)
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
21st May, 2019.
  Collective Agreement No. 34 of 2018
THIS Collective Agreement made this 12th day of
October 2018 between Hatton National Bank PLC, a Bank
duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office
at 479, T.B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 (hereinafter
referred to as “the Bank”)
of the one Part
and
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly
registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at
20, Temple Road, Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as
“the Union”)
of the Other Part
Whereas the Union made demands for re-negotiation of
the Collective Agreement entered into on 11th November
2015 which came into effect on 1st April 2015 and
subsequent to negotiations between the Bank and the Union,

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
agreement has now been reached between the said two
parties for the purpose of ensuring better employee terms
and conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the UNION
and the employees and maintaining an efficient and
productive working environment, the matters agreed upon
are set out hereunder;
1. Parties to be covered and bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind Hatton National
Bank PLC (the Bank), the Ceylon Bank Employees
Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed
on monthly contracts of employment by the Bank and
who are presently employed in any of the categories
mentioned in the First Schedule hereto (hereinafter
referred to as the employees). This Agreement shall
not cover and bind any employee who is an officer, staff
officer, secretary, executive or any other staff on special
rates of pay.
2. Date of Operation and Duration
This Agreement shall come into force on the 1st April
2018 and shall continue until either party terminates it
by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes
Act but no such notice shall be given before the 31st
March 2021. The Union shall, however, have the right
to commence negotiations for a revised Collective
Agreement at any time on or after 1st July 2020.
3. Earlier Agreements
This Agreement shall supercede any other Collective
Agreement entered into or binding on the parties hereto
and such earlier Agreements shall stand repudiated in
respect of the parties hereto.
4. Matters Covered and Bound
(a) This agreement shall be in full and final settlement
of all matters covered herein as well as of all the
matters raised by the Union and in respect of which
negotiations took place between the parties before
the conclusion of this Agreement and the Union
agrees that it will not during the continuance in force
of this Agreement raise any of the matters which
were discussed and negotiated between the parties
preceding this Agreement except to the extent agreed.
(b) It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this
Agreement that in relation to present employees
they shall not during the continuance in force of this
agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of
the terms and conditions of employment or benefits
presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in
this agreement other than by mutual agreement.
5. Consolidated Salary
The parties have agreed to consolidate the basic salary
and the fixed payment made in lieu of cost of living
allowance, to be included in the pay slips of employees
and thereafter continue as a consolidated salary with
effect from 1st April 2018. Accordingly, an employee
covered by this Agreement and in service as at the date
of this Agreement shall, from the 1st of April 2018 be
placed on the said new consolidated salary. Parties also
agree that with effect from the date of this agreement
the starting consolidated salary for Bank Associates will
be Rs.61,000/- per month and will be applicable during
the operational period of this collective agreement.
6. Salaries
For the placement of an employee covered by this
agreement on the new consolidated salary with effect
from 01.04.2018, the following provisions shall apply.
i. A sum equal to 4% of the consolidated salary (Salary
plus fixed payment made in lieu of cost of living
allowance) payable to an employee as at 31st March
2018 shall be added to the salary of an employee as
at such time.
ii. Every employee in employment and covered by this
Agreement shall also receive a further 4% increase
calculated on the consolidated salary as at
31.03.2019, with effect from 01.04.2019.
iii. Every employee in employment and covered by this
Agreement shall also receive a further 4% increase
calculated on the consolidated salary as at
31.03.2020, with effect from 01.04.2020
7. Allowances
(a) Cost of Living Allowance
As referred to in clause 5 above the fixed payment
in lieu of Cost of Living Allowance granted to
employees will be increased upto Rs. 36,000/- and
consolidated with the basic salary with effect from
01st April 2018. Thereafter, the pay-slips of
employees will indicate a consolidated salary
consisting of the basic salary and the fixed payment
made in lieu of cost of living allowance and continue
as a consolidated salary.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
However, notwithstanding the consolidation, the
union may refer to the cost of living allowance in its
proposals submitted for the revision of the collective
agreement, during future negotiations as referred to
in clause 2 of this agreement.
Provided however, in the event of the Department of
Census & Statistics publishing a linking factor
pertaining to the rate of payment in relation to the
Colombo Consumer’s Price Index (Base year 2002)
and the CCPI (Base year 2006/2007) and if union
makes a request for a meeting to discuss the
modalities of making this payment in respect of
employees who are receiving the payment in lieu of
Cost of Living, the Bank would be open to do so.
(b) Cashiers’  Risk Allowance and Tellers’  Allowance
i) Where a Cashier is called upon to bear the risk, he
shall be paid a monthly allowance of Rs 1,500/-,
subject to his having worked at least 5 days in that
capacity for a month. If he has worked less than 5
days in that capacity, he shall receive Rs 650/- only.
ii) Any employee who has to bear the risk of authorising
payment of cash against cheques in his capacity as a
Teller shall be entitled to a Tellers’ Allowance on
the under-mentioned formula:
a) Where the limit of authorisation is up to
Rs. 500,000/-, the daily allowance shall be
Rs. 150/- up to a maximum of Rs. 2,250/- per
month. Provided, however, that a person will be
entitled to the maximum payment if he has worked
for not less than 15 days as a Teller, during the
month.
iii) No employee who in the course of a single month
has acted both as a cashier and a teller and is eligible
for the above allowances shall be entitled to a sum
in excess of Rs 2,750/-.
iv) The Cashiers’ Risk Allowance and the Tellers’
Allowance will not be included for the purpose of
computing consequential benefits.
v) No person who functions as a Teller shall, in addition,
be entitled to the Cashiers’
Risk Allowance for the days on which he so
functioned as a Teller.
vi) Insurance claim procedure covering cash shortages
as listed in the manual of operations will not be
changed without informing the Union during the
tenure of the Collective Agreement.
(c) Disturbance Allowance
An employee called upon to report for work before 7.00
a.m. shall receive Rs 500/- per day, and if required to
report before 6.30 a.m. shall receive Rs 750/- per day.
8) Incremental date and Annual Increments
The employees covered and bound by this agreement
will be eligible to receive performance based annual
increment on the following basis.
Outstanding -1-1.24 - Achievement above 121% -Rs. 1,500/-
Exceed Expectation - 1.25 -1.74 - Achievement between 106% to 120%-Rs.1,000/-
Meet Expectation - 1.75- 2.49 - Achievement between 95% to 105%-Rs. 800/-
Below Expectation - 2.50 - 3.49 - Achievement between 75% to 94%  -Rs. 500/-
Does not meet expectation- 3.50 - 4.99 - Achievement below 74%-Rs. 270/-
The annual increments set out above will be granted on
01st July of each year commencing from year 2019.
The union shall be engaged in deliberations in the event
of any changes to existing performance appraisal
scheme and thereafter the new scheme will be informed
to the employees.
9) Pension payments to employees who have retired
from service
Any employee who has retired from service between
1st April 2018 and the date hereof shall be entitled to
his pension calculated on the basis of the salary in terms
of clause 6(i) hereof.
10) Promotion to Grade II
Subject to provisions of clauses 11, 12, 13 and 14
hereof, an employee who completes 6 years in Grade I
shall automatically be promoted to Grade II in his
category, subject to the right of the Bank to defer such
promotion for a period of one year by way of
punishment for misconduct after an inquiry and an
employee so promoted shall receive an increase of
Rs.600/- when placed in Grade II.
11) Accelerated Promotion
i) From Grade I to Grade II
Employees who sit for and successfully pass the
Institute of Bankers Examination will be considered
for placement on Grade II, subject to the conditions

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
referred to at (a) and (b) hereunder, provided,
however, that their past record of overall
performance, attendance and conduct as assessed by
the Bank justifies such consideration.
a) On successful completion of examinations
leading to the full Associateship of the
Chartered Institute of Bankers (London) or the
Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka (DABF) plus
three complete years of service with the Bank
in which such employee serves, or
b) On successful completion of the examinations
leading to Stage I/Banking Certificate of the
Chartered Institute of Bankers (London) or
Intermediate Examination of the Institute of
Bankers of Sri Lanka (IABF) plus four
complete years of service with the Bank in
which such employee serves.
12) Promotions from Grade II to III
The following principles shall apply to the promotion
of an employee from Grade II to Grade III
a) An employee who is eligible under following
criteria (b) will be considered for promotion to
Grade 3 subject to an application being made by
the employee.
b) An employee eligible to make such application will
be -
i) An employee who has served for a
minimum period of six years in Grade II,
or
ii) An employee who has successfully
completed Part I of the Chartered Institute
of Bankers (London) or the Intermediate
Examination of the Institute of Bankers, Sri
Lanka Examination (IABF) in which event
the minimum period of service will be five
years in Grade II or four years post-
qualification experience in Grade II
whichever is lower, or
iii) An employee who has completed all stages
of the Examination leading to the full
Associateship of the Chartered Institute of
Bankers (London) or the Institute of
Bankers, Sri Lanka (DABF) in which event
the minimum period of service will be four
years in Grade II or three years post-
qualification experience in Grade II,
whichever is lower
.c) Promotion to Grade III will not be automatic but
will depend on a consistently good record of
work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.
d) An employee will be considered for promotion
from the first date of the month succeeding the
month in which the application is made.
e) On promotion to Grade III an employee will
receive an increase of Rs.700/-.
f) The Union will have the right to make
representations to the Bank in respect of any
particular non-promotion although such cannot
be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.
13) Promotions from Grade III to Grade IV
The following principles shall apply to the promotion
of an employee from Grade III to Grade IV
a) An employee who is eligible under following
criteria (b) will be considered for promotion to
Grade 4 subject to an application being made by
the employee.
b) An employee eligible to make such application
will be -
i) An employee who has served for a
minimum period of six years in Grade III,
or
ii) An employee who has successfully
completed Part I of the Chartered Institute
of Bankers (London) or the Intermediate
Examination of the Institute of Bankers, Sri
Lanka Examination (IABF) in which event
the minimum period of service will be five
years in Grade III or four years post-
qualification experience in Grade III,
whichever is lower, or
iii) An employee who has completed all stages
of the Examination leading to the full
Associateship of the Chartered Institute of
Bankers (London) or the Institute of

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
Bankers, Sri Lanka (DABF), in which event
the minimum period of service will be four
years in Grade III or three years post-
qualification experience in Grade III,
whichever is lower.
c) Promotion to Grade IV will not be automatic but
will depend on a consistently good record of
work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.
d) An employee will be considered for promotion
from the first date of the month succeeding the
month in which the application is made.
e) On promotion to Grade IV an employee will
receive an increase of Rs.800/-
f) The Union will have the right to make
representations to the Bank in respect of any
particular non-promotion although such cannot
be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.
14) Re-designation of Business Support Associates,
Telephone Operators/Receptionists to Bank
Associates
i. A Business Support Associate shall be considered for
re-designation as a Bank Associate provided such
employee possesses the following eligibility
requirements:
a) Three years service and passing Part I of the
Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka Examination
(IABF).
b) On completion of the Final Examination of the
Institute of Bankers (DABF).
c) Five years service and the relevant qualifications
for entry as a Bank Associate.
d) Five years service without requisite qualifications
for entry as a Bank Associate but subject to
success at a written examination conducted by the
Bank.
ii. Based on requests received from Telephone Operators/
Receptionists for re-designation as Bank Associates,
the Bank shall consider such requests provided the
employee possesses the following eligibility
requirements.
a) Five years in the Bank and the successful
completion of Part I of the Institute of Bankers’
Examination (IABF).
iii. Employees who satisfy such eligibility requirements
stated at 14(ii)(a) above will be required to successfully
complete an examination that will be conducted by the
Bank and the decision on re-designation shall be subject
to a good record of overall performance and an
interview by the Bank.
iv. Any employee re-designated as a Bank Associate in
terms of the preceding clause will be eligible for
promotion to grade 2 in accordance with the provisions
of clauses (10) and (11) hereof and the period of service
as required in the said clauses will relate to the period
such employee has served in the re-designated capacity
of Bank Associate.
15) Change of Designations
The following re-designations introduced with effect
from 01st April 2015 will remain unchanged.
Category Designation
Banking Assistant Grade 1 Bank Associate
Banking Assistant Grade 2 Bank Associate
Banking Assistant Grade 3 Senior Bank Associate
Banking Assistant Grade 4 Senior Bank Associate
Typist Grade 1 Business Support Associate
Typist Grade 2 Business Support Associate
Typist Grade 3 Senior Business Support
Associate
Typist Grade 4 Senior Business Support
Associate
The union will be engaged in deliberations in the event of
any change of job duties.
16) Minor Staff Promotions
Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit
staff at their discretion, the Bank will consider minor
staff for promotions subject to the following criteria:
a) Peon to Bank Associate
i. The number of vacancies in the Bank
Associate cadre will be announced
internally by advertisement by Staff Notice

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
annually. Such notice shall stipulate the job
requirements of the vacancy advertised, i.e.,
educational qualifications, age, and any
other particular criteria required for such
job as determined by the Bank.
ii. Any peon or labourer whose record of
service, conduct and attendance has been
satisfactory, with more than four years of
service with the Bank who has necessarily
completed the first part of the Chartered
Institute of Bankers (London) or
Intermediate Examination of the Institute
of Bankers of Sri Lanka (IABF) will be
eligible to apply and will be considered for
such Bank Associate position. The selection
process will include medical examinations,
interviews, written tests etc, as determined
by the Bank.
iii. Any peon whose record of service and
conduct has been satisfactory, with more
than five years’ service with the Bank, shall
be exempt from the minimum education
qualifications stipulated in the Notice and
may apply for such vacancy and will be
considered in the manner specified at
paragraph (ii) above.
iv. Any peon promoted in the manner specified
above will be required to serve a period of
probation of twelve months which may be
extended by the Bank for a further period
of up to six months during which, or at the
end of which, the Bank may at their
discretion revert such peon to his earlier
position and salary.
v . The basic salary payable to any peon
promoted in the manner specified above
shall be given an increase of Rs.750/-.
Provided further that such promotee shall
not be placed at Grade unless he has
completed a minimum period of four years
on Grade I on the Bank Associate Grade.
vi. Any Peon or Labourer who conforms to the
above requirements shall be promoted if
there are vacancies.
vii. The decision of the Bank in respect of
selection for promotion shall be final and
conclusive.
b) Labourer to Peon
i. The number of vacancies in the Peon cadre
will be announced internally by
advertisement by Staff Notice annually.
Such notice shall stipulate the job
requirements of the vacancy advertised, i.e.,
educational qualifications, age, etc, and any
other particular criteria required as
determined by the Bank.
ii. Any labourer with more than four years
service whose record of service, conduct
and attendance has been satisfactory will be
eligible to be considered for the post of
peon in response to the above mentioned
notice. The selection process will include
medical examinations, interviews and
written tests to assess among other things
the knowledge of written/spoken language
as appropriate in such manner as shall be
determined by the Bank.
iii. Any labourer promoted in the manner
specified above will be required to serve a
period of probation of twelve months which
may be extended by the Bank for a further
period of up to six months during which, or
at the end of which, if the performance of
such labourer is found to be unsatisfactory,
the Bank may at their discretion revert such
peon to his earlier position and salary.
iv. The basic salary payable to any labourer
promoted in the manner specified above
shall be given an increase of Rs.700/-.
Provided further that such promotee shall
not be placed at Grade II unless he has
completed a minimum period of four years
on Grade I on the Peon Grade.
v . Any labourer who conforms to the above
requirements shall be promoted if there are
vacancies.
vi. The decision of the Bank in respect of
selection for promotion shall be final and
conclusive.
c) Where the Union is dissatisfied with regard to a
non-promotion concerning minor staff, it is
agreed that the Bank concerned would discuss the
issue in the Monitoring Committee to be set up
under this Collective Agreement.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
d) Promotions - Electricians
Following principles shall apply to the promotion
of the Electricians.
i) Promotions from Grade I to Grade II
(Asst. Supervisor)
Employees who sit for and successfully
complete the final examination leading to
the National Certificate of Technology in
Electrical Engineering conducted by the
Department of Technical Education &
Training or an equivalent examination and
who have completed four years of service
with the Bank will be considered for
placement on grade II of the Electricians
service provided however that their past
record of overall performance attendance
and conduct as assessed by the bank justifies
such consideration.
Alternatively, in the absence of such exam
those who complete six years in Grade I will
be placed on Grade II of the Electrician’s
service. On promotion an employee so
promoted shall receive an increase of
Rs.400/- when placed in Grade II.
ii) Promotions from Grade II to Grade III
(Supervisor)
a) All promotions to Grade III will be
after an application is made by an
employee to the Bank. Promotion
consequent upon an application will
be effective from the first of the
month succeeding the month in which
the application is made.
b) An employee eligible to make such
application will be -
i) An employee who has served
for a minimum period of six
years in Grade II, or
ii) An employee who has
successfully completed the
final examination leading to the
National Certificate of
Technology in Electrical
Engineering conducted by the
Department of Technical
Education & Training or an
equivalent examination with
five years post qualification
experience in Grade II, or
iii) An emp loyee who has
completed all stages of the
examination leading to the
Diploma in Technology of the
Open University or equivalent
with six years service in Grade
II or three years post-
qualification experience in
Grade II.
c) Promotion to Grade III will not be
automatic but will depend on a
consistently good record of work,
conduct, attendance and punctuality.
d) On promotion to Grade III an
employee shall receive an increase of
Rs.500/-
e) The Union will have the right to make
representations to the Bank in respect
of any particular non-promotion
although such cannot be the subject
matter of an industrial dispute.
iii) Promotions from Grade III to Grade IV
(Senior Supervisor)
a) All promotions to Grade IV will be
after an application is made by an
employee to the Bank. Promotion
consequent upon an application will
be effective from the first of the
month succeeding the month in which
the application is made.
b) An employee eligible to make such
application will be -
i) An employee who has served
for a minimum period of six
years in Grade III, or
ii) An employee who has
successfully completed the
final examination leading to the
National Certificate of
Technology in Electrical

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
Engineering conducted by the
Department of Technical
Education & Training or an
equivalent examinations with
six years service in Grade III or
five years post-qualifying
experience in Grade III.
c) Promotion to Grade IV will not be
automatic but will depend on a
consistently good record of work,
conduct, attendance and punctuality.
d) On promotion to Grade IV an
employee shall receive an increase of
Rs.550/-
e) The Union will have the right to make
representations to the Bank in respect
of any particular non-promotion
although such cannot be the subject
matter of an industrial dispute.
iv) Promotions to the Grade of Technical
Assistant
a) All promotions to the post of
Technical Assistant will be after an
application is made by an employee
to the Bank. Promotions consequent
upon an application will be effective
from the first of the month
succeeding the month in which the
application is made.
b) An employee eligible to make such
application will be -
I. An employee who has served
for a minimum period of six
years in Grade IV , or
II. An employee who has
successfully completed all
stages leading to the Diploma
in Technology of the Open
University or an equivalent
examination, whilst serving in
Grade IV , or
III. An employee who has
successfully completed all
stages leading to the Diploma
in Technology of the Open
University or an equivalent
examination with a minimum
period of three years service in
Grade III.
c) Promotion to Technical Assistant
will not be automatic but will depend
on a consistently good record of
work, conduct, attendance and
punctuality.
d) On promotion to Technical Assistant
an employee shall receive an increase
of Rs.600/-
e) The Union will have the right to make
representations to the Bank in respect
of any particular non-promotion
although such cannot be the subject
matter of an industrial dispute.
v) Promotions from Technical Assistant to
Junior Technical Officer
a) All promotions to the Junior
Technical Officer will be after an
application is made by an employee
to the Bank. Promotions consequent
upon an application will be effective
from the first of the month
succeeding the month in which the
application is made.
b) An employee eligible to make such
application will be -
i) An employee who has
successfully completed all
stages leading to the Diploma
in Technology of the Open
University or an equivalent
examination with three years
service in the grade of
Technical Assistant.
ii) Promotion to the post of Junior
Technical Officer will not be
automatic but will depend on a
consistently good record of
work, conduct, attendance and
punctuality.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
iii) On promotion to the Junior Technical
Officer, an employee shall receive an
increase of Rs1,200/-.
c) The Union will have the right to make
representations to the Bank in respect of
any particular non-promotion although such
cannot be the subject matter of an industrial
dispute.
vi) Promotions from the Junior Technical Officer
to the Technical Officer
a) Without prejudice to the right of the Bank
to recruit staff at their discretion, the Bank
will consider Junior Technical Officers for
promotions to the grade of Technical
Officer subject to the requirements
applicable to the recruitment of Technical
Officers to the Bank. The minimum service
requirement will be three years as Junior
Technical Officer with an excellent record
of service.
b) The salary scale applicable to this Grade
will be the scale applicable to Junior
Executive Grade I.
c) The Union will have the right to make
representations to the Bank in respect of
any particular non-promotion although such
cannot be the subject matter of an industrial
dispute.
17) Provident Fund
a) Rate of Contribution
The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund
by the Bank shall be:
Bank’s contribution  - 12% (twelve per cent) of
salary
Employee’s contribution  - 8% (eight per cent)
of salary)
Provident Fund contributions shall be on the
consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof
subject to the Rules of the Provident Fund.
b) Interest on Provident Fund Contributions held
by Bank
Where Provident Fund monies are invested in the
Bank, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate of
interest paid on 12 months’ fixed deposits for a
sum of Rs 100,000/- published by the N.S.B. or
HNB which ever is higher prevailing as at the 1st
January for the first half of the year and on the
rate prevailing on the 1st July for the second half
of the year on the net Provident Fund monies
invested at the Bank.
c) Deficiency in Bank’ s Contributions to Provident
Fund to an Employee not entitled to a Pension
Where an employee shall cease to be employed
by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitle
him to a pension or payment in lieu of pension as
the case may be, such employee shall be entitled
to the difference between the Bank’s
contributions made to the Fund during his period
of service and the employer’s minimum rate of
contribution he would have been entitled to, in
terms of the Employees’ Provident Fund Act and
its amendments from time to time as a
contribution to the Fund by the employer on
behalf of such employee. Such deficiency will
be the difference between the following
minimum rates of contribution under the Act and
10% of basic salary actually contributed by the
Banks up to 31st March 1992.
From 1.1.71 to 31.12.80 - 9% of consolidated
salary
From 1.1.81 onwards - 12% of consolidated
salary
Prior to 31.12.70 the employer’s minimum rate
of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross
salary) which was less than 10% of basic salary
and therefore no deficiency arises.
18) Retirement
(a) The age of retirement shall be 55 years, or any
other age mutually agreed to between the Bank
and its employees, and on reaching the age of 55,
or any other age mutually agreed upon, an
employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be
employed by the Bank and there shall be no
obligation on the Bank to give such employee any
notice of such retirement.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
b) An employee may also be retired and be eligible
for retirement benefits if he is not less than 50
years and has 10 or more years of service, subject
to mutual agreement between the employee, his
Union and the employer that he should be given
such concession and subject to the condition that
the refusal by any party to agree to such premature
retirement shall not constitute an industrial
dispute.
19) Terminal Benefits
(a) Pensions
An employee shall, upon reaching the retirement
age of the Bank and who is in the permanent
employment of the Bank at such time, and shall
have completed not less than 10 years of actual
continuous service (excluding absence/leave
without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension
computed on the following basis:
No. of completed years
Service (max. 35 years) Monthly consolidated
plus 5  salary  payable in the
Retirement age of the month of retirement
Bank
(b) Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/
disability
An employee entitled to a pension in terms of (a)
above who is found to be unable to continue to
perform his duties as a result of infirmity/
disability, as certified by the Bank/s Doctor/
Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board,
and who is in the permanent employment of the
Bank at such time, and shall have completed not
less than 10 years of actual continuous service
(excluding absence/leave without pay) is entitled
to a pension computed on the same basis referred
to at clause 19(a) above. Provided, however, that
where an employee is entitled to compensation
by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or
an Award of Court, such employee shall only be
entitled to a pension or such compensation as
opted by him, but not to both. Provided further
that in the case of an employee whose premature
retirement occurred in consequence of an
accident which entitled him to compensation, the
pre-acceptance of pension as provided herein will
not restrict the right of such employee in
subsequently claiming any balance compensation
under any written law.
(c) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights
An employee who is entitled to receive a pension
in terms of (a) or (b) above may at his discretion
opt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu
of his pension and any other payments arising
therefrom. The payment will be computed on the
following basis:
No. of completed 1 month’s consolidated
years Service salary in the month of
(max.35 years) retirement
plus 5
The above payment shall constitute a settlement
in full and final satisfaction of all claims against
the Bank on account of the cessation of
employment in respect of gratuity, pension,
deficiency, if any, in the Bank’s contribution to
Provident Fund to an employee not paid a pension
in terms of Clause 19.
(d) Death Gratuity
On the death of an employee who has been
confirmed and is in the permanent employment
of the Bank, the Banks will make a compassionate
payment of two months consolidated salary for
each year of completed service subject to a
minimum of nine months’ consolidated salary to
the legitimate dependents of the deceased
employee, as may be determined by the Bank at
its sole discretion on the basis of information
supplied to them. In the case of the death of an
employee who is not confirmed in employment
the amount payable will be 50% of that payable
to a confirmed employee provided that in the case
of an employee who has not been confirmed
consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade,
the gratuity payable will be calculated as in the
case of a confirmed employee.
Provided, however, that in the event of death
arising out of and in the course of employment,
the dependents shall be entitled to and receive
either the death gratuity referred to herein or
payment by way of compensation under any laws
in force at the time on account of Employees’
Compensation or under any other law or an Award
of Court, whichever is higher. Provided further
X
X

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
that in the case of an employee whose death
occurred in consequence, the pre-acceptance of
death gratuity as provided herein shall not restrict
the right of such dependents in subsequently
claiming any balance compensation due to them
under any written law.
(e)Gratuity on Resignation/Termination Prior to
Retirement
An employee shall, upon resignation/termination
of employment prior to retirement in
circumstances which do not entitle him to the
terminal benefits referred to at the
aforementioned Clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) be
entitled to a gratuity computed in terms of the
Payment of Gratuity Act (1983), which shall be
paid within 30 days of the cessation of
employment.
The salary for this purpose shall comprise the
consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5.
Completed years of actual service shall include
only actual continuous service worked excluding
absence/leave without pay, but subject to the
provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983)
and Clause 19 thereof.
(f) Commuted Pension
i. An employee entitled to a pension and who
has not opted for the lump sum gratuity in
lieu of such pension may at the time of
retirement opt for a commuted pension and
in such event, a sum equal to 25% of the
monthly pension into 120 will be paid by
way of commuted pension.
ii. Where an employee commutes his monthly
pension in the manner aforesaid, the
monthly pension payable to him during the
first ten years of retirement will be 75% of
the monthly pension he would have been
entitled to at the time of retirement if he
had not so commuted his pension. After the
expiry of the said ten years the amount of
the monthly pension so commuted will be
restored and added to the monthly pension
then being paid.
20) Medical Scheme
i. Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-
Hospitalisation Expenses
The Bank will reimburse an employee up to a maximum
of Rs 35,000/- per annum in respect of medical
expenditure incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf
of his spouse or unmarried legitimate children under
the age of 21 in respect of routine non- hospitalisation/
non-surgical and specialist treatment, and subject to the
following:
(a) All medical claims shall be supported by valid and
relevant prescriptions, bills and receipts. The
maximum validity period of Medical Bills and
receipts will be four years from the date of
issuance.
(b) Prescriptions or Doctor’s bills should be from a
Registered Medical Practitioner.
(c) The unutilised portion of the allocation for the
year could be utilised in the future years without
any restrictions subject to valid bills being
submitted within a period of time as aforesaid.
ii) The Bank will further reimburse a sum upto a maximum
of Rs.20,000/- on a non-cumulative basis for Medical
Reports in respect of a Annual Health Checkup for the
employees over 35 years of age. Further, spouse of an
employee who are over 35 years of age will be entitled
for Annual Health Checkup within the same limit
entitled to the employee subject to the following.
a) The entitlement could be utilized within a calendar
year.
b) The medical tests specified in the Annexure I and
any other medical tests prescribed by a Registered
Medical Practitioner must be carried out
concurrently to be entitled for reimbursement.
c) The Claim Form accompanying the valid and
relevant prescriptions, bills and receipts should
be forwarded to the Talent Rewards & Benefits
Division, Head Office for payment.
(iii) Special Non-Hospitalisation and Non-surgical
Expenditure

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-
cumulative basis a combined allowance maximum upto
Rs.35,000/- for undermentioned purposes on behalf of
the employee and not on behalf of his family members:
(a) Spectacles
(b) Dentures & Nerve Filling
(c) Hearing Aids
Subject to valid documentation as in the case of
(i) above and subject to the provisions that no
claim is made in relation to any particular item
referred in iii (a) & (c) more than once in three
years and in the case of spectacles it must be
supported by a prescription from a Medical Eye
Specialist. Further, employees will be able to
make claims on dentures and nerve filling for any
number of occasions within the stipulated limit.
Provided further however, in the case of
employees over the age of 47 years, a claim for
spectacles may be allowed once in two years.
(iv) Surgical and Hospitalisation Expenditure
Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical
and hospitalisation (whether Government or Private)
expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, his spouse
and unmarried legitimate children under 21 years of
age, subject to the production of valid documentation
covering every claim or expenditure, up to the following
limits per annum:
(a) Hospital or Nursing Standard A/C Room
Room Charges: charge per day
Daily Limit
Government Hospital Rs 5,000/- per day
Allowance..
(b) Emergency Treatment Rs.4,000/-
Travel expenses
(maximum)
*The rate is Rs 50/-
per kilometer Or
Rs 5,000/-
subject to Submission
of valid receipt
(c) Overall limit for Rs 250,000/-
any one year
Hospitalization charges on normal birth will be
permitted from the Bank’s Surgical & Hospitalization
Expenses Scheme.
The Second Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which
reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.
(v) Maternity Grant
(a) An employee who is married will be entitled to a
grant of Rs 12,000/- in respect of two births of
children. If both spouses are employed in the Bank
only one shall be entitled to this grant.
(b) In the case of reimbursement under surgical and
hospitalisation expenses, for maternity, an
employee shall not be entitled to the grant in terms
of (a) above.
21) Bonus
Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus
payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay to
every employee covered by this Agreement on the
following basis in respect of one complete year of
service meaning January to December and
proportionately for service less than one year at the
rate of one-twelfth of such entitlement in respect of
each complete month of service. The salary for this
purpose shall include consolidated salary drawn by
such employee for the month of December.
Year Fixed Bonus Bank Performance Bonus
2018 1.75 months 0.75 month
2019 2 months 0.50 month
2020 2 months 1 month
The bonus payable on Bank Performance will accrue to
eligible employees of the Bank in any particular year
only if the Bank achieves an increase in NPAT of the
corresponding financial year by minimum of 15% as
against previous year.
22) Probation
Every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a
period of nine months probation subject to the right
of the Bank to extend the period of probation by a
period of three months.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
23) Release of Parent / Branch Union Office Bearers
Office bearers of the Parent Union or the Branch
Union shall be released for Union work without
payment of any salary, allowance or any other payment
of whatever nature on the following basis:
(a) The total number of Office Bearers so released
in terms of this Agreement or any other
Agreement shall not exceed one.
(b) No employee shall be released for more than
two years on a single occasion during a period
of six years.
(c) On resumption of work by an Office Bearer who
has been released for Union work, he shall
receive incremental credit for the period of his
absence from work and such absence shall not
affect his rights relating to terminal benefits.
24) Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and
General Councilors
(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the
release of not more than two Branch Union
Office Bearers at any one given occasion
without loss of pay exclusively to enable such
Branch Union Office Bearers to be present at
inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour
Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and with
their respective Bank Managements -
exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.
(b) It is agreed that Central Committee Members
(General Council) of the Union will be permitted
to leave at 12.30 p.m. on 12 days in a year for
meetings. In the case of out station Central
Committee Members, they would be permitted
leave for the whole day for 12 Central
Committee Meetings in a year.
(c) It is agreed that a day’s paid leave shall be
granted on two occasions per year to Central
Committee Members to attend Parent Union
Central Committee Meetings.
(d) It is agreed that Executive Committee members
will be released as appropriate for meetings of
the Executive Committee of the Union. These
meetings will not usually be more than on a
monthly basis.
(e) The Bank agrees to release once every 02 years
for the Delegates Conference of the Union all
such delegates in the employment of the Bank
up to a maximum of 01 day provided however,
that the number to be released shall be discussed
and agreed between the branch union and the
management and such release will not result in
a disruption to the operations of the Bank.
25) Special Leave to visit Outstation Branches
The Banks shall permit branch union office bearers
or the central committee members of the branch union
employed by the Bank paid leave to visit outstation
branches calculated on the basis of a day’s leave
available for each such branch, i.e., if there are X
branches the total number of days paid leave available
shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch
is one situated more than 30 miles from Colombo.
The release of Central Committee Members or branch
union office bearers shall not exceed six employees
at any given time in terms hereof and/or under any
other Agreement between parties.
26) Overtime
(a) If required by his employer an employee shall
work reasonable overtime which has been
authorised by the employer, subject to the
provisions of any law for the time being in force.
(b) Overtime work shall be remunerated in
accordance with the provisions of the Shop and
Office Employees Act.
27) Annual, Medical and Casual Leave (a) Annual Leave
(i) Entitlement
In respect of each year of employment (which means
the period January to December) during which an
employee has been in continuous employment he shall
be entitled to take in the following year 21 working
days paid leave. He shall avail himself of at least 7
days out of the 21 days on successive days and shall
in respect of each year avail himself of not less than
14 days out of the said 21 working days.
(ii) At the end of the first year of employment the
employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows:

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
(a) The full annual holiday of 21 days if his
employment commenced on or after 1st January
but before 1st April.
(b) A holiday of 15 days if his employment
commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st
July.
(c) A holiday of 11 days if his employment
commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st
October, and
(d) A holiday of 6 days if his employment
commenced on or after 1st October.
(iii) A vailment
The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior
authorisation of the Bank upon the employee’s
application, giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so
as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
(iv) Accumulation
Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee
exclusively for the following purposes:
(a) For availment in full, immediately preceding
retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.
(b) For the purpose of attending on a family member
who is seriously ill.
(c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s
prior notice shall be given.
(d) For marriage of the employee
(e) Prolonged illness of the employee.
(f) On account of the death of a family member
provided that the employee has exhausted his
current year’s leave.
(g) For purposes of nursing third and fourth children
beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
Provided that in the case of (b) to (d) the approval
of such leave shall be at the discretion of the
Management. Family member for purposes of
(b) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.
Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted
up to a maximum of seven (7) days per year and
provided further that such total accumulation shall be
restricted to a maximum of ninety (90) days.
(b) Medical Leave
(i) Entitlement
An employee shall be entitled to not less than
twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly
or other holidays in any one year, in case of
sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions
in sub-clause (ii) hereof.
(ii) A vailment
The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay
for any days of absence on grounds of sickness
not supported by a Certificate from a Registered
Medical Practitioner.
(a) where such period of absence exceeds two
consecutive days including weekly or
other holidays,
or
(b) where the number of days already allowed
on full pay on grounds of sickness,
uncertified by a Medical Practitioner, is
in excess of twelve (12) days in any one
year.
(iii) Accumulation
An employee who takes less than his entitlement
in any one year as prescribed above shall be
entitled to avail himself of the balance of his
entitlement for such year in any succeeding year
or years, subject to the following provisions:
(a) in no case shall the entitlement to medical
leave on full pay, by reason of such
accumulation, exceed one hundred &
twenty (120) days, and
(b) the accumulated medical leave may only
be availed of on account of prolonged
illness, hospitalisation or similar
circumstances, supported by a Certificate
from a Registered Medical Practitioner,

<!-- page 15 -->

15AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
(c) where an employee has exhausted his
current year’s sick leave as a result of
prolonged illness such as an infectious
disease or prolonged hospitalisation an
employer may permit him to set off any
further absence on grounds of ill health
against such accumulated sick leave up to
the extent of the leave taken for such
earlier prolonged illness.
(iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and
advising the employee concerned, to refuse to
pay and/or take any action as appropriate in
situations where the absence on grounds of
sickness not supported by a Certificate from a
Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the
following circumstances:
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to
suspect the bona fides of the application
and/or reason for absence of an employee,
or
(b) Where the absence of the employee on
grounds of sickness immediately follows
or precedes any weekly or other holiday
and the Bank has reasonable cause to
suspect the bona fides  of the application
and/or reason for absence of the
employee.
(c) Casual Leave
An employee shall be entitled to a
maximum of seven (7) days casual leave
in each  year of employment. All casual
leave shall be by prior approval of the
Bank, unless the reason for such absence
is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank
as being in circumstances that could not
have been foreseen by such employee.
 28) Suspension
(i) Where an employee is suspended pending a
disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will,
subject to the provisions of Sub-clauses (ii) and
(iii) below, receive half his salary from the date
of suspension up to six months and full pay
thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay
was not due to the employee concerned.
(ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges
involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or
misappropriation, the employee will not be
entitled to any salary during the period of
suspension unless the inquiry is not concluded
within six months of the date of suspension in
which event he will receive half his consolidated
salary during his suspension beyond the said six
months period. Provided that if the delay beyond
six months is due to the employee’s own conduct
or due to the employee being in custody or
remand thereby making it impossible for the
Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such
salary as aforementioned will not be payable.
(iii) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as
aforementioned, where the employer is
prevented from concluding the inquiry within
six months of suspension for reasons beyond
the employer’s control such as where the
employee makes repeated requests for
postponements or where he is remanded or in
Police custody or where the matter is under
investigation by the Police, the employee will
continue to receive half his salary and will not
receive full pay in these circumstances.
29) Disciplinary Procedure
Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action
against an employee except, however, in the case of
oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings
for minor offenses, the following procedure shall
apply:
(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been
suspended, the employee shall be furnished with
a show cause letter which shall set out the
particulars of the charges against such employee
and such show cause letter shall give the
employee not less than ten (10) calendar days
within which to tender his explanation in writing
to the charges preferred.
(b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of
the show cause letter the employee shall tender
in writing to the Bank his explanation to the
aforesaid charges provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable the employee may
request the Bank for an extension of time within
which to tender the written explanation and
where such request is made, the Bank shall
normally grant such request for such further

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
period of time as is considered necessary by
the Bank in the circumstances.
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation
within the period of time allowed to the
employee to show cause and the Bank is satisfied
with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw
the charge/s against the employee and if the
employee is under suspension, the Bank shall
forthwith reinstate the employee and shall pay
to such employee his salary and entitlements in
respect of the period of such suspension.
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation
within the time allowed to him to show cause
and the Bank is not satisfied with such
explanation, the Bank shall, subject to Sub-
clause (k)(iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into the
charges against such employee.
(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred
to in Sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working
days from the date of receipt by them of the
written explanation to the show cause letter
unless it is not possible to do so for reasons
beyond the Bank’ control, or by reason of the
employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by
reason of unforeseen circumstances.
(f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch
Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade
than the accused employee or an office bearer
of the Branch Union irrespective of grade
(in which case the Bank reserves to itself the
right to prevent the person carrying on the
defense for unacceptable conduct) or a Central
Committee Member of the Union employed in
the Bank to defend the accused employee at a
domestic inquiry provided the defending
employee has not obtained a legal qualification.
The defending employee will not suffer any loss
of salary for absence from work on this account.
The Bank will further allow another member of
the Branch Union to be present at the inquiry as
an Observer without loss of salary for absence
from work. The accused employee shall submit
to the Bank in writing the name of the defending
employee and Observer not less than 48 hours
before the time appointed for the
commencement of the inquiry. The defending
employee shall be entitled to examine the
witnesses for the accused employee and cross
examine witnesses for the Bank. The Inquiring
Officer will be entitled to require a defending
employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry
to withdraw therefrom and the defending
employee or Observer shall forthwith comply
with such requirement. The absence of a
defending employee or Observer from the whole
or any part of an inquiry for any reason
whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the
proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant
thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to
participate in the proceedings but he may answer
any question which the Inquiring Officer may
ask him.
(g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the
proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject
to the Observer and the accused employee
signing proceedings as a correct record. After
the proceedings have been certified and a copy
issued to the accused employee for all purposes
thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a
true copy of such proceedings before the
Inquiring Officer. In respect of any document
marked at an inquiry, the Bank will release
copies of such documents to the Union with the
proceedings, provided however, that the Bank
may refuse to release any such documents
provided such documents in its opinion are of a
confidential nature
(h) The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his
impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role
of the prosecution as well.
(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the
conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform
the employee, in writing, of the findings in
respect of the charges and of the punishment, if
any, imposed by the Employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee
as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30)
working days except for reasons beyond the
control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct
of the employee, such employee shall not be
punished thereafter in respect of such charges
and no inference adverse to the employee shall
be drawn in respect of such charges.
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the
Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic
inquiry in any of the following circumstances:

<!-- page 17 -->

17AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his
written explanation before the expiry of
the time allowed to show cause in which
event the Bank shall be entitled to take
disciplinary action on the basis that such
employee had no cause to show.
(ii) where the employee makes a written
admission of the charges against him.
(iii) where the Bank proposes to warn an
employee, but without prejudice to the
Union’s right to request the Employer
thereafter to hold an inquiry in which event
the fact that the inquiry did not commence
within twenty one (21) working days after
receipt of the employee’s explanation
shall not be material or relevant.
(
L) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the
punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be
final and binding on the Bank and the employee
and the Union, unless the employee or the Union
shall within three (3) months from the date on
which the Bank had notified such employee of
the findings or punishment, raises a dispute in
respect of such findings and/or punishment.
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the
Bank makes order that -
(i) the employment of the employee shall be
terminated, then the termination of such
employment shall take effect as from the
date of suspension or such later date as
the Bank may determine; provided further
that the Bank shall not be entitled to
recover from the employee any payment
made in respect of salary to the employee
in respect of such period of suspension,
if any such payment has been made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not
be terminated, then the employee shall be
employed forthwith and shall be paid the
entirety of his salary in respect of the
period of suspension without prejudice to
the right of the Bank to impose such other
punishment other than termination, which
may include the whole or part of the period
of suspension pending inquiry, on the basis
of the findings of the inquiry.
(n) The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e),
(i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry
is not held in view of the fact that the matter
under inquiry is being referred, or has been
referred, to the Police or other authorities for
investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact
that criminal charges are pending against the
employee.
(o) The above provisions shall only apply in respect
of inquiries that commenced after the date of
signing of this Agreement.
30) Technology
(i) The Third Schedule hereto contains matters
relating to new Computer Based Banking
Technology agreed upon between the parties.
(ii) The Bank will furnish the Union on request
information relating to new computer hardware
to be introduced by the Bank, i.e., published
manufacturer’s specifications relating to
equipment. The Bank will be under no obligation
to provide information relating to software.
(iii) The Union will be free to make representations
on matters relating to the introduction of new
Computer Based Banking Technology in the
Bank other than on matters covered in this
Agreement and subject to sub-clause (ii) above.
(iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above,
the Union will not be entitled to raise any
industrial dispute on matters relating to
Computer Based Banking Technology, will not
resort to any industrial action in that regard and
any representations/dispute in that connection
shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial
dispute under the laws of Sri Lanka.
(v) It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union
relating to the adverse effects of the use of
computers shall be referred to the Monitoring
Committee set up under the Collective
agreement for resolution. In the event of the
Monitoring Committee not being able to satisfy
the Union, such matter shall be referred to the
Department of Health and Safety of the Labour
Department and the recommendation given by
the Doctor-in-Charge shall be accepted by both
parties and where changes are necessary in
terms of such recommendation the Monitoring

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
Committee shall prevail on the Bank concerned
to implement such changes.
31) Trade Union Action
(a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement
The Union and its members covered and bound
by this Agreement jointly and severally agree
with the Bank that during the continuance in force
of this Agreement they shall not engage in any
strike or other form of Trade Union action
including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations
or picketing or any form of collective action
against the Bank in respect of any dispute related
to this Agreement.
(b) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this
Agreement
The Union and its members covered and bound
by this Agreement jointly and severally agree
with the Bank that during the continuance in force
of this Agreement they shall not engage in any
strike or other form of Trade Union action
including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations
or picketing or any form of collective action
against the Bank in respect of any dispute that
may arise on any matter not related to this
Agreement until -
(i) The Branch Union of the Bank has
exhausted all forms of conciliation to
resolve such dispute amicably with the
Bank, at which stage the Branch Union
shall notify the Bank in writing of its
intention to refer such matter to the Parent
Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’
Union).
(ii) The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank
Employees’ Union) has intervened in the
matter and has exhausted all forms of
conciliation to resolve such dispute
amicably with the Bank and/or the
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement
at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the
Parent Union has to give notice in writing
of not less than fourteen (14) days of the
fact that there has been no satisfactory
settlement of the dispute and that it wishes
to resort to trade union action. Such
notice shall be given to the Bank, the
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and to
the Commissioner General of Labour.
(iv)A dispute arising out of failed negotiations
for a fresh Collective Agreement after
31st day of March 2021, cannot be
construed interpreted and/or implied by
the Employer as a dispute related and
covered by this Agreement.
32) Union Check-off Facilities
During the continuance in force of this Agreement
and provided the Union has not less than forty (40)
percent membership among the employees covered
by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant
check-off, provided, however, that the Bank reserves
the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility
in the event of the Union violating any of the
provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation
to the Bank.
33) Implementation and Interpretation of this
Agreement
(i) Where either the Union or the Bank are
dissatisfied with the manner in which the
Collective Agreement is being implemented or
where there is a complaint regarding the adverse
effects of computer technology change such
matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring
Committee set up by the Bank consisting of two
representatives from the Bank and two
representatives from the Union. The Bank or the
Union may request that a matter be placed
before the Monitoring Committee by
communication addressed to the Employers’
Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of
complaint.
(ii) Any dispute over the interpretation of the
Agreement shall be settled by voluntary
arbitration under Section 3 of the Industrial
Disputes Act, 1950.
34) Consequences of Termination of Agreement
On the termination of this Agreement all terms,
conditions, benefits, facilities and concessions
enjoyed by the Union and/or its members shall ipso
facto cease.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
35) Definitions
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings:
Bank Hatton National Bank PLC
Employee an employee covered and bound by
this Agreement.
Employer Hatton National Bank PLC
Parent Union The Ceylon Bank Employees’
Union.
Branch Union The Branch Union of the Ceylon
Bank Employees’ Union at Hatton
National Bank PLC
Dispute A dispute shall have the same
meaning as an Industrial Dispute in
the Industrial disputes Act and shall
include any dispute arising between
the Bank and the Branch Union of
the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union
at Hatton National Bank PLC.
Salary Shall mean the consolidated salary
as defined in Clause 5.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the
feminine
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural
and vice versa .
FIRST SCHEDULE
1. Bank Associates
2. Business Support Associates
3. Telephone Operators
4. Peons
5. Lift Operators
6. Plumbers
7. Drivers
8. Labourers
9. Electricians
10. Technical Assistants
11. Junior Technical Officer
12. Court Clerks
Second Schedule
1) a) The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the
employee but will cover those persons specified
in Clause 20 (iv) of the Agreement. It shall be the
duty of the employee to enroll members of his
family immediately on becoming eligible to be
included in this Scheme.
No reimbursements will be made in respect of
members of the family who have not been
enrolled.
2) Reimbursements will only be effected on
hospitalization involving at least one night’s stay in a
hospital.
3) The Bank must be notified promptly, and in any event
not later than on the first business day following
admission to hospital.
4) The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies
covering reimbursements under this Scheme and the
employee shall be required to make declarations
(including completion and signing of Insurance
Proposal forms) and submit documentation required
by Bank/Insurers in a proper form and timely manner
to enable the Bank to obtain reimbursement from the
Insurance Companies. The Bank will advise by internal
circular issued from time to time the documentary
requirements and time limits within which documents
should be submitted. Where an employee does not
comply, he will not be entitled to benefits under this
Scheme.
5) Employees shall uphold the principle of uberrima fide
when making declarations and submitting claims under
this Scheme and any deviation would disqualify the
employee from receiving any benefit under this
Scheme. In addition, the employee will be liable to
disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set-
out in this Agreement.
6) a) The Bank will circulate by internal circular
published from time to time a list of Hospitals /
nursing homes, expenses incurred at which, will
be eligible for reimbursement under the
Scheme. Additions and/or deletions to this list
will also be made by internal circular.
b) If for reasons of geographical location any
employee believes he may not be in a position
to use any of the Institutions given in the list, he

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days
of publication of the list of amendments to the
list referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph,
requesting special dispensation to use a named
Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall
consider such application on a case by case basis
and, where deemed appropriate, will grant such
special dispensation, provided however, that the
decision of the Bank on this matter shall be final
and conclusive.
7) Exclusions
The Scheme shall not cover benefits/expenses:
a. Arising from an injury sustained or a sickness
contracted outside Sri Lanka or for treatment
outside Sri Lanka.
b. Occasioned by or happening through
i) The participation by the employee or other
eligible family members in War, Invasion,
Act of Foreign Enemy, Hostilities (whether
war be declared or not), Civil War,
Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection,
Mutiny or Usurped Power, Military,
Popular Rising or while serving as a
member of any Defence, Police, Security
Force, Home Guard etc.
ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, Venereal
Disease, Insanity and Illnesses resulting
from Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome.
iv) Earthquake, V olcanic Eruption or Tidal
Wave.
c Incurred whilst travelling in an aircraft other than
as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed
standard type of civil aircraft operated by a
recognized Airlines on a regular route or in a fully
licensed standard type of civil aircraft having two
or more engines operated by a recognized Air
Charter Company or owned by a Commercial or
Industrial firm and piloted by a Pilot holding a
Commercial Pilot’s License.
d. In respect of Eye Tests or Dental Treatment.
e. Arising from any physical defect or infirmity
which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s
service.
8) The benefits under this Scheme shall not be cumulative
and the words “any one Year” in Clause 20(iv) of the
Agreement shall be deemed to be the period 1st January
to 31st December. In the case of employees who join
during the course of a year the overall limit and event
limit up to the period ending the next 31st December
will be pro-rated to the number of full months of service
up to 31st December.
9) In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the
end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the
entitlement of either or both years, subject, however,
to the event limit specified in Clause 20(iv) of the
Agreement.
10) Bank shall review the permission of Hospitalization
Charges on Normal Delivery and relaxation of children
age limit to 21 years and recurrent illness clauses
prevailed in 2009 Collective Agreement, in the event
scheme is undertaken by the insurance provider.
The Third Schedule
. The parties agree to the following conditions in relation
to the introduction of new Computed Based Banking
Technology by the Bank covered and bound by this
Agreement.
1) Wherever practical, the Bank will endeavour to
ensue that jobs are designed to include a mix of
VDU/non VDU tasks which seek to provide
variation in visual and mental demands upon the
operator.
2) The workload of operators of VDUs will be
regularly reviewed by Management for the
purpose of ensuring proper safety and
effectiveness of the operation.
3) The Banks agree to provide VDU operators with
adequate training within the parameters of their
job description to ensure the safety and health of
employees.
4) a) In selecting VDUs the Bank will attempt to
obtain equipment which will ensure the following:

<!-- page 21 -->

21AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
i. Screens that give clear stable images
ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure
the reduction of stress and improved
maneuverability.
iii. Equipment which is quiet in operation so
that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable
limit.
b) The Bank will undertake proper servicing and
maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of
the VDUs.
The Bank will pay attention to the proper
positioning of screens, keyboards and provide
facilities for placing documents and ancillary
equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of
employees.
The Bank will endeavour to provide lighting
facilities to minimize visual fatigue in the
operation of VDUs
.
Employees whose main or primary function, as
decided by the Management of the Bank, is the
operation of a VDU, will be permitted to visit, at
the cost of the Bank, an Optician selected by the
Bank to have his eyesight examined prior to his
commencing employment on a VDU. In the event
of an adverse report being obtained from the
Optician, the employee should inform the Bank
immediately.
Where an employee whose main or primary
function, as decided by the Management of the
Bank, is the operation of a VDU, and he is already
using spectacles, when he is called upon to
operate a VDU for the first time, he will be
permitted, at the expenses of the Bank, to be
examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank
for the purpose of obtaining an opinion as to
whether any modification is necessary to his
lenses. The cost of such examination and
modification to the lenses if necessary will be
borne by the Bank on the following basis :
(i) The cost of the examination will be met by
the Bank outside the limits prescribed by
the Medical Assistance Scheme herein.
(ii) The cost of modification of the lenses will
be met within the Medical Assistance
Scheme, but if such cost should exceed the
limits prescribed by the Scheme, the Bank
will bear such additional cost as well.
5) Accepting the fact that continuous work at a
terminal by a data entry operator causes a certain
amount of strain, the Bank is agreeable to a
reasonable pause in entering information at or
about the end of each period of 2 hours so long
as there is no disruption of the smooth flow of
work and so long as such pause does not exceed
10 minutes.
6) The provisions of this Agreement will apply to
employees whose main or primary function, as
decided by the Management of the Bank, is
operating a VDU. Provided however the Union
will be entitled to make representations as to
whether the main or primary function is the
operation of a VDU subject to there being no
industrial dispute being raised on this issue.
7) The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench
employees who become redundant solely and
exclusively in consequence of the introduction
of new Computer Based Banking Technology.
Instead, the Bank may avail itself of any one or
more of the following options.
a) The aforementioned excess employees may
be transferred to other sections/
departments to perform work which is
within their skill and capacity without
reduction in salary and allowances which are
in force at such time in relation to such
employees. This option refers to a transfer
other than within the scope of employment
which the Bank would under normal
circumstances be entitled to effect.
b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope
of (a) above, re-train an employee if the
employer considered it necessary.
c) The Banks will be entitled to negotiate with
employees who are redundant for the
reasons contemplated in this Agreement,
with a view to achieving a cessation of
employment on terms mutually agreed upon
and this will not amount to retrenchment
within the meaning of this Schedule.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
8) For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment
will mean an involuntary termination of the
employees made redundant consequent upon the
introduction of new Computer Based Banking
Technology. It will not include a situation where
such redundant employees voluntarily leave the
service of the employer on terms mutually agreed
upon.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
Annexure I
HEALTH  CHECKUP  FOR  STAFF  MEMBERS  OVER  35  YEARS  OF  AGE
CLAIM FORM
Branch/Department :.............................................
EPF No. :...............................................
Name with initials
(Mr/Mrs/Miss) :...............................................................................................................
Age ..........................................                        Category  ...........................                      Amount.......................................
(Please tick “X”)
Haemogram
Haemoglobin
P.C.V .
R.B.C.
MCHC  MCV MCH
Total W.B.C.
E.S.R
Peripheral Smear
Biochemical Parameters
Fasting & PP Blood Sugar
Urea
Creatinine
Uric Acid
Lipid Profile
Total Cholesterol
HDL Cholesterol
LDL Cholesterol
Triglycerides
Total Cholesterol/HDL Ratio
Liver Function Tests
Total Protein
Albumin
Globulin
SGPT
Alkaline Phosphatase
GGTP
SGOT
Serum Bilirubin
General Tests
VDRL
Blood Grouping & Rh typing
Complete Urine Analysis
Stools Test
Pap Smear for women/P.S.A. for men
E.C.G .
Chest X-Ray
Ultrasonogram of the Abdomen
Cardiac Stress Analysis (CSA/TMT)
Pulmonary Function Test [PFT]
I certify that this claim and the bills submitted therewith are genuine in respect of expenditure incurred by me. I also declare that I have not
made a claim under the Health Checkup for the past 12 months.
.................................. ..............................................
Signature
Date

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
In witness hereof the said parties have set their hands hereunto on this 12th day of October 2018 at Colombo.
...................................
For and on behalf of
Hatton National Bank PLC
Name : L Chiranthi Cooray (Mrs)
Designation : Chief Human Resource Officer/
              DGM - HR
...................................
Vajira Ellepola,
Deputy Director General
Employers' Federation of Ceylon
Witness :
...................................
D. I. V . Senadhira,
Head of Human Capital Management
Hatton National Bank PLC
...................................
J. A. D. S. Ayoj,
Assistant Manager,
Talent Rewards & Benefits
Hatton National Bank PLC
...................................
For and on behalf of
Ceylon Bank Employees' Union
Name : Channa Dissanayake
Designation : President
...................................
Ranjan Senanayake,
General Secretary,
Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union.
...................................
Kushan Wijayapala,
Treasurer,
Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union,
...................................
M. R. F. Perera,
President,
Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union,
Hatton National Bank PLC Branch.
...................................
Prabhath Abeysooriya,
Senior Vice President
Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union,
Hatton National Bank PLC Branch.
06 - 342

<!-- page 25 -->

25AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
 My No: CI/1789
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT, CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Housing
Development Finance Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka, Sir
Chiththampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02 of the
one part and the Ceylon Bank Employees Union, No. 20,
Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 04
th
December 2018 is hereby published in terms of Section 06
of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the
Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
21st May, 2019.
Collective Agreement No. 46 of 2018
COLLECTIVE    AGREEMENT   2018 - 2020
By and Between
HOUSING   DEVELOPMENT   FINANCE
CORPORATION   BANK   OF   SRI   LANKA
Sir Chiththampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02
of the One Part
And
CEYLON   BANK   EMPLOYEES’   UNION
No.20, Temple Road, Colombo 10
of the other part
This Collective Agreement is made on this 04th day of
December 2018 by and between the HDFC Bank of the one
part (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”) and the Ceylon
Bank Employees Union of the other part (hereinafter
referred to as “the Union”).
The HDFC Bank and the Ceylon Bank Employees Union
hereby agree as follows:
TITLE : This Agreement will be known and referred to as
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT OF “HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION BANK with
THE CEYLON BANK EMPLOYEES’ UNION FOR THE
PERIOD COMMENCING FROM FIRST JANUARY TWO
THOUSAND AND EIGHTEEN TO THIRTY FIRST
DECEMBER TWO THOUSAND AND TWENTY (01. 01.
2018-31.12. 2020)”
1. EMPLOYER TO BE COVERED AND BOUND
This Agreement shall cover and bind the HDFC Bank,
which is a party to this Agreement
2. EMPLOYEES TO BE COVERED AND BOUND
This Agreement shall cover and bind members of the
Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union in employment with
the Bank and who are employed in any of the categories
of whom a salary scale has been prescribed in this
Agreement in the “Annexure 1” attached hereto.
3. DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION
This Agreement shall deem to be in force from the First
day of January Two Thousand And Eighteen (1
st January
2018) and thereafter continue to be in force, unless it
is determined by either party giving six months (6)
notice in writing to the other, provided however, that
no party shall give such notice to the other party before
the 1
st day of July 2020 and such notice shall not expire
before the 31 st day of December 2020 .
4. MATTERS COVERED AND VARIATION OF
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
AND BENEFITS.
(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final
settlement of all matters covered herein as well
as of all the matters raised by the Union in relation
to the period commencing from 2018 to 2020
and in respect of which negotiations took place
between the parties before the conclusion of this
Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not
during the continuance in force of this Agreement
raise any of the matters which were discussed and
negotiated between the parties preceding this
Agreement other than the matters relating to non
salary benefits which shall be discussed by the
Management of the Bank with the Ceylon Bank
Employees Union and reach finality on or before
31
st January, 2019. After an agreement has been
arrived at, as regards non-salary benefits, the
terms and conditions of same shall be annexed to
this agreement, which shall form an integral part
thereof.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
(b) The Union and its members shall not during the
continuance in force of this Agreement seek to
vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and
conditions of employment or benefits applicable
or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other
than by mutual agreement with the Bank.
5. SALARY COMPONENTS
As from 01.01.2018 each employee covered and bound
by this Agreement shall be paid upon and subject to the
other terms and conditions herein contained a monthly
salary which comprises the following components:
5.1 Fixed Component
The fixed component comprises the following
items:-
(i) Revised basic salary as set out in the
“Annexure 1” hereto. (Increments will be
granted continuously notwithstanding the
maximum point given in the salary scales).
(ii) The revised basic salary in “Annexure 1”
hereto will be paid in the years 2018, 2019
and 2020 on compounding basis, in the
following manner:
a. 70% with effect from 01
st January
2018
b. 15% out of the gross salary as at 31-
12-2018, with effect from 01 st
January 2019
c. balance amount to match the industry
level, with effect from 01 st January
2020
(iii) In the event, the Bank achieves the
minimum capital requirement of Rs. five
(05) Billion on or before 31
sl December
2018, the Bank shall pay the revised salary
in Annexure 1 hereto, as follows:
a. 70% with effect from 01 st January
2018
b. balance 30% with effect from 01 st
January 2019
5.2 Allowances
(a) In addition to the basic salary, the following
allowances will be paid, effective from
01.01.2018:
(i) Cost of Living Allowance based on
the CCPI varying in the particular
month.
(ii) Rent Allowance as per item (b) below
(iii) 10% on the aggregate of the Basic
salary + Rent Allowance + Cost of
Living Allowance.
(b) The rent allowance will be 20% of the Basic
Salary.
5.3 Variable Component
Basis of determination of variable component
which consist of cost of living allowance shall be
determined in the course of time.
6. ANNUAL INCREMENT
The annual increment payable to the employees for the
period 2018 to 2020 shall be on the basis specified in
the revised salary scale in “Annexure 1” hereto.
7. CONVERSION OF THE BASIC SALARY
(a) The Basic Salaries of all employees will be
converted to the revised scale by applying the step
for step (point by point) method of conversion.
e.g. An employee who had been on the 5th step of
the scale as at 31.12.2017 will be placed on the
5th step of the relevant revised scale with effect
from 01.01.2018.
(b) Non-Banking stream personnel shall also be
placed at the appropriate revised salary scale on
the same basis.
8. RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The payment of revised salary scale on staggered basis,
as stated in 05.1 (ii) and (iii) above, shall not affect the
retirement benefits of the employees who have retired
in and or due to retire in 2018 and 2019. The revised

<!-- page 27 -->

27AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
salary scale will be considered for computation of
retirement benefits.
9. CONVERSION OF ANOMALIES
The HDFC Bank and the Ceylon Bank Employees Union
jointly agree to execute the Collective Agreement for
the year 2018 - 2020 subject to the rectifying of possible
anomalies associated with calculation of increments in
the salary scales as corrected by other three government
Banks (Bank of Ceylon, Peoples Bank, and National
Savings Bank) that would arise subsequently to this
revision.
Any anomalies that would arise consequent to this
revision shall also be examined by a Committee
comprising of representatives of the HDFC Bank and
the Union and will be rectified suitably.
10. PAYMENT OF PERFORMANCE BONUS FOR
THE YEAR 2018
A performance bonus for the year 2018 shall be paid as
stated below, considering the performance of the Bank
for the last nine months (01/01/2018 to 30/09/2018):
(i) One Month Salary
One month gross salary (basic + COLA+ 20%
allowance + 10% allowance) as at 31/12/2017.
No other additional performance bonuses will be
paid for the year 2018.
11. NEW CRITERIA FOR PERFORMANCE BONUS
With effect from the year 2019 onwards, performance
bonuses for the respective financial years, shall be paid
to the employees, who are eligible for a performance
bonus, on the basis stated below:
The Bank has to achieve a minimum Return On Assets
(ROA) of 1% for the respective financial year. 50% of
the actual profit after tax (PAT), in excess of the PAT
calculated at ROA of 1% shall be paid as an incentive
profit bonus to eligible employees for the relevant
financial year.
The criteria adopted by the Bank, for payment of
performance bonus for the year 2016 onwards, under
Board Minute bearing reference No. B.P 22/212/2017
is cancelled.
12. TAXES ON EMOLUMENTS
PAYE tax on emoluments of staff shall be borne by the
Bank. (Except for the employees where their letter of
employment state otherwise)
13. OTHER COMMITMENTS
The Union further agrees to assist and support the
Management of the Bank in every manner to obtain the
maximum contribution of its members to achieve the
targets set out in the Business Plan / Strategic Plan of
the Bank.
14. Where the existing terms and conditions of employment
of an employee covered and bound by this agreement
and any existing concessions extended to the members
of the Union are more favourable than the terms and
conditions provided for in this agreement, then nothing
in this agreement shall in any way affect or prejudice
such existing terms and conditions of employment and
such concessions shall continue to exist,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein.
Where an employee was immediately prior to the date
hereof entitled to or becomes entitled to on or after
that date, under or by virtue of any law, contract,
agreement, award or custom to any rights or privileges
more favourable than those to which he/she would be
entitled under this agreement, nothing in this agreement
shall be deemed or construed to authorize or permit
the Bank to withhold, restrict or terminate such right
or privilege.

<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
For and on behalf of the
HDFC BANK CEYLON BANK EMPLOYEES’ UNION
.......................................... ..................................................
Palitha Gamage General Manager/CEO Channa Dissanayake,
HDFC Bank President
.......................................... ..........................................
M.K. Nambiyarooran, Ekeswara Kottegodavithana,
Chief Operating Officer. Snr. Asst. Secretary.
Witnesses to the above Signatories
.......................................... ..........................................
Nimali Boteju Dinesh Senanayake,
Chief Manager, Secretary,
Human Resources & Admin., HDFC Bank Branch Union

<!-- page 29 -->

29AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 30.05.2019
Annexure I
HDFC BANK OF SRI LANKA
Salary Revision Effective From 01.01.2018 to 31.12.2020
Post / Grade Salary Scale (Rs)
Chief Manager - Grade 1 122,105 - 540 x 12 - 164.585/-
Senior Manager - Grade 11 94,065 - 2,150x20 - 137,065/-
Manager - Grade 111(1) 76,820 - 1,770x20 - 112,220/-
Senior Executive - Grade 111(2) 63,185 - 1270 x 20 - 88,585/-
Executive - Grade 111(3) 49.195 - 840x20 - 65,995/-
Junior Executive - Grade IV 43,440 - 650x20 - 56,440/-
Secretaries - Grade V(l) 36,125 - 390 x 20 - 43,925/-
Secretaries - Grade V(2) 34,085 - 300x20 - 40,085/-
Banking Assistant  - Grade VI (3) 39,065 - 440 x 20 - 47.865/-
Banking Assistant - Grade VI (2) 35,070 - 380x20 - 42,670/-
Banking Assistant - Grade VI (1) 32,480 - 280x20 - 38.080/-
Peon / Driver - Grade VII (1) 30,335 - 280x20 - 35,935/-
Peon / Driver/ - Grade VII (2) 28,790 - 230x20 - 33.390/-
Maintenance Tech.
Business Promotion - Grade VII (3) 27,190 - 170x20 - 30,590/-
Assistants/ Peon /
Driver /Maintenance
Tech -
Multi - Duty Assistant 1 26450 - 160x20 - 29650/-
HDFC   BANK CEYLON  BANK  EMPLOYEES’  UNION
............................... ....................................
Palitha Gamage Channa Dissanayake,
General Manager/CEO President
............................... ...................................
M.K. Nambiyarooran Ekeswara Kottegodavithana,
Chief Operating Officer Snr. Asst. Secretary,
06 - 343
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA