

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1687
1687
wxl 1"929 - 2015 wf.daia;= ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'08'21
No. 1,929 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 21, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1690
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1704
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th September, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th
August,  2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1688
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1689
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1690
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars – Marriages, Births and Deaths
KEGALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st Sep tember,
2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
03rd August, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kegalle Mawanella Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
for Mawanella Hospital Division General, District Secretariat,  Kegalle.
08–505
––––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine
RECRUITMENT (OPEN) TO THE POST OF BIO MEDICAL
ENGINEER (GRADE III OF EXECUTIVE SERVICE
CA TEGORY)
APPLICATIONS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who posses
following qualifications to recruit to fill 05 vacancies of the post of
Bio Medical Engineer of Ministry of Health.
01. Method of Recruitment .– From the applicants who have
fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in this notification, those who
will obtain highest marks from structured interview conducted by an
interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission, will
be recruited considering the number of vacancies. The structured
interview will be conducted according to the marking scheme
(mentioned under No. 06) approved by the Public Service
Commission.
02. Required Qualifications :
(i) Educational Qualifications. – Should have a degree in
Electrical/Electronic/Mechanical Engineering/Bio-medical

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1691
Engineering obtained from a university recognized by the
University Grants Commission.
(ii) Physical Fitness.– Should be physically and mentally fit to
serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties of the
post.
(iii) Other Qualifications :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
* Should posses a good character ;
* Should have fulfilled all qualifications which are required
for the recruitment to the post in all respects as at the
closing date mentioned in this notification.
03. Terms of Engagement :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Officers are
required to make contributions to Widows'/Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension Fund.
(ii) Officers appointed to this post will be on probation for a
period of 3 years and first Efficiency Bar Examination
should be passed within these 3 years.
(iii) Officers should obtain the relevant proficiency in official
language other than the medium in which he/she entered the
service within 05 years after recruitment as per Public
Administration Circular No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and
officers who have not entered the service in an official
language are required to obtained prescribed official language
proficiency during the period of probation.
(iv) This appointment will be subject to procedural rules of
Public Service Commission, Financial Regulations of
Government other departmental orders.
04. Age Limit.– Applicants should be not less than 21 years and
not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date.
05. Salary Scale.– This post carried a Salary Scale of Rs. 22,935
-10x645 -8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (monthly) in terms of the
Salary Circular P . A. C. No. 6/2006.
06. Marks will be given at the interview based on the following
marking scheme :
Heading under which marks are given Maximum
Marks
Extra Educational Qualifications 50
Experience 20
Research and publication relevant to the field 25
Performance at the interview 05
Total marks 100
07. Identity of candidates.– Candidates who have completed the
application in all respects will only be called for the structured
interview. Originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should
be submitted at the interview. Following documents of identity will
be accepted to prove their identity at the written examination :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) V alid passport.
08. Submission of Applications :
(i) Applications should be sent to the Secretary (Director
Admin. 07 Branch) Ministry of Health, No. 385, Rev.
Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10
by registered post on or before 25.09.2015. Applications
received after the closing date will be rejected.
(ii) A specimen of the application which should be submitted
is appended to this notification applications should be
prepared using a paper of size A4 and cages from 01 to
05 should appear on the first side of the page and cages
06-09 should appear on the second side of the page. The
application should be perfected in the hand writing of
the candidate.
(iii) The words “Application for the Post of Bio Medical
Engineer” sohuld be written on the top left hand corner
of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
(iv) Candidate's signature in the application should be attested
by a Principal of a Government School, a Justice of the
Peace, a Commissioner for Oaths, a Notary Public,
Attorney-at-Law, a Commissioned Officer in the Armed
Forces, or an officer holding a permanent post in the
Public Service who gets a monthly consolidated salary
of Rs. 22,935.
(v) Officers who are already in the Public Service or
Provincial Public Service should send their applications
through the respective Head of Department.
(vi) Applications which are not in accordance with the
specimen form of application will be rejected, No
complaint about misplace or delay of applications will
be accepted.
09. Providing false information :
If any information provided in the application sent by you
found to be false or incorrect before the recruitment, your
candidature will be cancelled.
If so found after the recruitment, actions will be taken to
dismiss from the service subject to the relevant procedures.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1692
10. Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission, circulars
relevant to Public Service issued from time to time, service minute
relevant to Grade III of Executive Service category and conditions in
amendments made to it are applicable to this post.
11. Public Service Commission has the right to fill or not to fill
the vacancies.
By the order of Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine.
No. 385, V en. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
R
ECRUITMENT (OPEN) TO THE POST OF BIO MEDICAL ENGINEER OF THE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials :
Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals) Eg. : Mr./Mrs./Miss
 SILV A  A. B.
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Address (Private) :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
2.2 Address (Private) :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address (Official) :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
2.4 Address (official) :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(An officer who is employed in Public Service/Provincial
Public Service/Corporation should mention his official
address, change of address should be informed immediately)
2.5 Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at closing date :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
05. Gender :––––––––––––.
06. Qualifications :
(Qualifications under paragraph 02 of the notification)
6.1 Educational Qualifications :––––––––––––.
6.2 Experience :––––––––––––.
07. Certification of the Applicant :
I solemnly declare that the information given herein are true and
correct. I agree that if any information herein is found to be incorrect
or false prior to the selection, my application will be rejected and if
found so after selection, I am liable to be dismissed from service
without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
08. Attestation of the signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ is known to me
personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on
........................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting.
(Authenticate with the rubber stamp)
Name in full :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
09. Certificate of Head of the Department/Institute (Only for the
Applicants in Public Service/Provincial Public Service) :
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ has
been serving in this Department/Provincial Council/Institute since
......................... and holds a permanent and pensionable/temporary
post and he/she has earned all the increments during the past
................... years and has not been subjected to a disciplinary
punishment of any kind (except being advised) and all the particulars
given above were checked referring to the records in this office and
found correct. Furthermore I hereby state that he, she can/cannot be
released from the service if selected and he/she placed the signature
in my presence.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department/Institute.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
08–655

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1693
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Defence
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER
(EXECUTIVE CA TEGORY - CLASS III)
APPLICATIONS are called from the citizens of Sri Lanka who have
acquired the qualifications stipulated in this notice to a vacancy
available in the Post of Legal Officer at the Ministry of Defence.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Candidates who obtain higher ranks
in a structured interview, which is held for all qualified candidates by
an interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission,
will be recruited subject to the number of vacancies. The structured
interview will be held according to a marking scheme (cited under
No. 06) approved by the Public Service Commission.
02. Required Qualifications :
(i) Educational/Professional Qualifications.– Sworn Attorney-
at-law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka or a degree in Law
recognized by the University Grants Commission of Sri
Lanka.
(ii) Experience.– Not less than three years (03) practice as
lawyer in Sri Lanka after sworn in as an Attorney-at-Law
of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka. (Document submitted
for the confirmation of the professional experience should
be presented with the duration of the experience, date and
official seal at the time of interview).
(iii) Physical fitness.– Should be of sound mental and physical
health to serve in any part of the island.
(iv) Other Qualifications :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
* Should be an excellent moral character ;
* Should have obtained qualifications on or before the
closing date of the applications.
03. Terms of reference of the appointment and service conditions:
(i) This is a permanent and pensionable appointment and all
the employees should contribute to the Widow and Orphans'
fund.
(ii) The appointment is subject to three years probation period
and the first efficiency bar examination of the Legal Officer
- Grade III should be completed within first three years of
the service.
(iii) Should earn the relevant minimum required proficiency in
the other official language applicable for the post within
five years of the service as a per Public Administration
Circular 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014. This appointment is
governed by the Procedural Rules of the Public Service
Commission, Financial Regulations and Establish Code of
the government.
04. Age limit.– Applicants should not be less than 21 years of age
and not more than 45 years of age as at closing date of the application.
05. Salary Scale.– Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs.
53,555 monthly salary scale is entitled for the post (salary code SL-
1-2006 as per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated
25.04.2006).
06. Marking scheme of the structured interview :
Subject Maximum Pass
Marks Marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 15
Additional Professional Qualifications 25
Additional Experience 25
Language Proficiency 15 Not relevant
Computer Literacy 15
Performance at the Interview 05
Total marks 100
07. Identity of the candidates.– Only the candidates who submit
applications in full compliance to this notice will be considered for
structured interivew.
Original and the certified copies of all the certificates should be
produced at the interview as means of identity verification of the
candidates :
(i) Identify Card issued by the Commissioner of the
Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) Valid Passport.
08. Submission of applications :
(i) All the applications should be sent under registered post
to the address, Secretary, No. 15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha,
Colombo 03 on or before 21st of September, 2015
(21.09.2015). Applications received after closing date
will be rejected.
(ii) A specimen application form is shown at the end of this
notice. All the candidates shall submit their applications
in A4 paper in the order of Section number 01 to 05 to be
displayed in the front page of the application followed
by the Section 06 to 08 to be included in the second page
with all the details filled in their own hand writing.
(iii) “Application for the post of Legal Officer” should be
mentioned on the top left hand corner of the
envelope enclosing the application.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1694
(iv) The signature on the application of all the candidate shall
be attested by a principal of a Government School, Justice
of Peace, Sworn Translator, Attorney-at-Law, Notary
Public or a Commissioned Officer of the Armed Forces
or a Government Officer holding a permanent post in the
government drawing a monthly consolidated salary of
not less than Rs. 22,935.00.
(v) All the candidate who are already employed by any of
the Government Institute should submit their
applications, through the respective Head of their
Institutions they are attached to.
(vi) Any application not in compliance with the specimen
application given here will be rejected. No complain with
regard to lost or late applications will be accepted.
09. Submission of false information.– If the application submitted
by any candidate is found to have false or incorrect information, his
or her candidacy for the post will be cancelled. If such information
reveals after the recruitment, such candidate will be dismissed from
the service according to the relevant guide lines.
10. The right of filling or not filling this vacancy is vested with
the Public Service Commission.
By the order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence.
No. 15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha,
Colombo 03,
03rd August, 2015.
For Official use only
R
ECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER AT THE
MINISTRY OF DEFENCE
01. 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
02. 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
2.2 Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
Permanent :––––––––––––. Mobile :––––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Ethnicity :
Sinhala – 1, Tamil – 2,
Muslim – 4, Other - 5
3.2 Gender : Female
Male
3.3 Civil Status : Married Unmarried
3.4 National Identity Card No. :
3.5 Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––,  Month :––––––––,  Date :–––––––––.
3.6 Age as at 21.09.2015 :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
04. 4.1 Educational Qualifications :
(i) Date of validation of the degree :––––––––––––.
(ii) University/Institution :––––––––––––.
(iii) Degree :––––––––––––.
4.2 Professional qualifications and experience :
(i) Grade obtained for the English in G . C. E. (O/L) or
G. C. E. (A/L) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Experience obtained as an Attorney-at-law in the
Supreme Court :––––––––––––.
Years :––––––––––––.
05. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court of Law ?
If so, necessary details with date and case number :–––––––––.
06. Certification of the applicant :
I do hereby certify that the above given particulars are true and
correct to the best of my knoweldge. I'm fully aware that if any
information I have furnished herewith is found to be false or incorrect
prior to the appointment or after the appointment and found that
I'm not qualified for the post and I'm liable for dismissal from the
service without any compensation.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
07. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
This should be atested by a Principal of a Government School,
Justice of Peace, Notary Public, Attorney-at-Law, Commissioned
Officer of the Armed Forces, Gazetted Officer of the Police or a
Government Officer holding a permanent post in the government
drawing a monthly consolidated annual salary of not less than
Rs. 273,060.00.
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms............................ (Name in
full) is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in
my presence on .....................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the Attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1695
08. Certificate of the Head of Department :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms .................................. (Name
in full) is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature
in my presence on .........................
I do hereby certify that his/her conduct is satisfactory. If he/she
is selected for the post, he/she can be/can't be released from the
service.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Institution.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
08–591
––––––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :–
(a) Technical Engineering Branch;
(b) Logistics Branch ;
(c) Dental Branch ;
(d) Administrative Veterinary Branch ;
(e) Administrative Legal Branch ;
(f) Administrative Band Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the
professional qualifications given below :
(a) Technical Engineering Branch :
Technical Engineering Officer - Male (Regular)
* Full time four (4) year BSc. in Mechanical/Automobile.
Engineering from a recognized University or three (3)
year full time National Diploma in Technology (NDT)
in Mechanical Engineering from the University of
Moratuwa or three and half (3 1/2) year full time Higher
National Diploma in Mechanical Engineering (HNDE)
from Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological
Education or four (4) year National Diploma in
Engineering Sciences (NDES) awarded by the National
Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Authority.
(b) Logistics Branch
Mess Manager - Male (Regular)
* Higher Diploma in Hotel Management or completion
of all 4 levels of full time basic courses and completion
of intermediate and Advance level in Hospitality
Industry Training, from a recognized Local/Foreign
Institute with minimum of 2 years post qualification
experience in star Class Hotels in Food and Beverages
Departments in executive capacity.
Technical Officer Apparel - Male (Regular)
* A Bachelor Degree in Science, Technology or
Engineering, preferably with a Post Graduate
Diploma qualification in Textile and Clothing
Technology with 5 years working experience in
apparel sector with minimum of 3 years as a Trainer/
Consultant in Textile and Apparel Technology
covering product development, productivity
improvement merchandising and work study ; or
* Should have a Diploma in Textile and clothing from
the Sri Lanka Institute of textile and apparel or any
other recognized institute with 2 years working
experience in textile and clothing technology.
(Age not more than 33 years for Degree holders and
26 years for Diploma holders as at 31st October
2015)
(c) Dental Branch :
Dental Officers - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
Flight Lieutenant .– BDS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Dental Student - Male/Female (Regular)
* Flying Officer  - Completed final BDS Part I and
studying in the final year.
* Pilot Officer - Completed 2nd BDS and beginning of
3rd year.
Note :
* Selected Dental Student candidates will be required to
serve an obligatory period of 10 years from the date of
Commission in the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
* Selected students will be released from the Sri Lanka Air
Force until completion of final year. They will be
Commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant on
completion of BDS Degree and full registration with the
SLMC.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1696
* Opportunities will be granted for Post Graduate studies
depending on the exigencies of the service.
* Dental students to submit a certificate from their
respective Universities depicting their year of studies.
(d) Administrative V eterinary Branch :
Veterinary Officer - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Candidates should possess BVSc Veterinary four years
Degree or an equivalent, recognized by the University
Grant Commission of Sri Lanka and Working
experience will be considered as an added qualification.
(e) Administrative Legal Branch :
Legal Officer - Male (Regular)
* Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka -
Specialized and/or experienced in preparation of
commercial contracts, Notarial documents,
memorandum of understanding, procurement
procedures, court prosecution and handling
disciplinary matters.
Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rnak
of Squadron Leader or Flight Lieutenant in keeping
with their professional qualifications and experience.
(f) Administrative Band Branch
Band Master (Male) Regular
* A minimum of six passes at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credit in English
language and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language
in one sitting ; and
* Qualified up to Grade V or above of the Royal College
or Trinity College of Music London or equivalent
qualifications ;
* Ability to train and conduct Military Band/orchestra
and a credit pass in Music at the G. C. E. (O/L)
examination will be an added qualification ;
* Ability to compose music in western and oriental
tradition as well as a sound knowledge on playing
western and oriental instrument will be considered as a
special qualification ; or
* A minimum of six passes at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credit in English
language and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language
in one sitting ; and
* Degree in Fine Arts from the Institute of Aesthetic
Education (Music) in Sri Lanka or passed final Level
(Music) in National Dance and Music examination of
Sri Lanka or "Visharadha" Part II level from
"Bahathkande" Music Academy in India ;
* Ability to train and conduct oriental/western bands
and a credit pass in Music at the G. C. E. (O/L)
examination will be an added qualification ;
* Ability to compose music in both oriental and western
traditions as well as a sound knowledge on playing
western and oriental instruments will be considered as
a speical qualification.
3. Other Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried
(c) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
(d) Age : As at 31st October, 2015
(1) For Technical engineering,
Logistic (Mess Manager)
Branch and Dental Students : 18 to 30 years
(2) For Dental Officers, Administrative,
Veterinary, Administrative Legal
and Administrative Band Branch : 18 to 35 years
(e) Height : Male - 5' 6" and above
Dental Male Officers 5' 5' and above
: Female - 5' 4" and above
Dental Female Officers 5' 3" and above
(f) Weight : 17 < BMI < 26 Male
17 < BMI < 25 Female
Weight (Kg)
BMI = ––––––––––
Height
2 (m)
(g) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(h) Colour Vision : CP2
Standard
(i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (Without
spectacles)
Dental - Left eye 6/6 and right eye
6/6 (With or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may possesses special qualifications may
at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height/weight provided
he/she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1697
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.- Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot
Officer, Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant or Squadron Leader as
applicable in keeping with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the president’s pleasure”.
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of section 11 of the Air Force Act
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in  the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15 ( d) (17).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :–
Pilot Officer – Rs. 242,700.00 p. a.
Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220.00 - 34 x 7,740.00 =
Rs. 538,380.00 p. a.
Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 321,660.00 - 28 x 7,740.00 =
Rs. 538,380.00 p. a.
Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620.00 - 24 x 7,740.00 =
Rs. 538,380.00 p. a.
Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100.00 – 20 x 9,480.00 =
Rs. 551,700.00 p. a.
Group Captain – Rs. 441,060.00 – 18 x 12,600.00 =
Rs. 667,860.00 p. a.
(b) Pay applicable to Dental Officers :
Dental II - Rs. 306,180.00 -4x7,740.00 -10x7,800.00 -
3 x 12,600.00 - Rs. 452,940.00 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140.00 - 15 x 12,600.00 -
Rs. 601,140.00 p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680.00 -12x 15,720.00 -
Rs. 697,320.00 p. a.
(c) Other allowances applicable to Dental Officers :
(1) Pensionable allowances
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 1,700.00 per month
Grade II - Rs. 1,700.00 per month
Grade I - Rs. 3,400.00  per month
Specialist Grade - Rs. 3,400.00  per month
(2) Non pensionable allowances :
Preliminary Grade - Rs 2,125.00  per month
Grade II - Rs. 1,700.00  per month
Grade I - Rs. 400.00  per month
(3) DAT allowances - Rs. 35,000.00  per month
(4) Extra duty payments :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 335.00 per hour
Grade II - Rs. 383.00 per hour
Grade I - Rs. 528.00 per hour
Specialist Grade - Rs. 628.00 per hour
(5) Language proficiency allowance :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 795.00 per hour
Grade II - Rs. 800.00 per hour
Grade I - Rs. 1,200.00 per hour
Specialist Grade - Rs. 1,460.00 per hour
(6) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d) are
to be calculated separately as applicable.
(d) Service Allowances :
1. Cost of living allowance Rs. 7,800 per month.
2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
3. Hard line allowance Rs. 600 per month.
4. Additional hard line allowance Rs. 4,400 per month
for those serving in operational areas.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1698
5. Special allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100 will
be paid for per day).
6. Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
9. Ration allowance Rs. 15,167.70 per month (if
permitted to live out).
10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
11. Special allowance 20% of consolidated salary.
12. Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
13. An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
14. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
15. Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
16. Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
17. Rent Allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
18. Service Allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as
applicable (Payable to service Dental Officers in
consideration to the number of complete years of
service)
19. Additional Service Allowance Rs. 1,500 per month
(applicable to service Dental Officers only).
20. 1/20 Allowance - Con pay x 1/20 x 3 days (Maximum)
per month (applicable to service Dental Officers only).
21. Extra Duty Payments 120 hours (maximum) per
month (applicable to service Dental Officers only).
22. Budget interim allowances Rs. 10,000 per month.
23. Telephone Bill allowances –
Wing Commander Rs. 2,000.00 per month
Group Captain Rs. 4,000.00 per month
Specialist Doctors Rs. 7,000.00 per month
Doctors Rs. 4,000.00 per month
24. Engineering allowances Rs. 15,000 per month
(applicable to Engineering Officers only).
25. Veterinary allowances Rs. 7,500 per month (applicable
to Veterinary Officers only).
16. Pensions/Gratuities .- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Command
Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Trade Training
School Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to reach him not later than
1200 noon on 25th August, 2015 under registered cover.
The envelope enclosing the application should be marked
“Application for Commission in the ........... Branch”
Applications received after the closing date and not in
accordance with the requirements of this notification and
not in registered post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
1. Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
2. Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
3. Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant ;
4. Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc. ;
5. Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
*Note.- Originals of these certificates should be produced only
if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1699
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews, No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
GP B
ULA THSINGHALA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo 02.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE
IN THE ................ BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Branch applied :––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
8. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
9. E-mail Address :––––––––––.
10. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
11. Height :–––––'––––––".
12. District :–––––––––––.
13. Electorate :–––––––––––.
14. Grama Seva Division and Number :–––––––––––.
15. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
16. Civil Status :–––––––––––.
17. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of School/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University Examination Examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
18. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if
applicable ) :
Name and address Nature of Period of Service
of employer employment From  To
19. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present
Address
Father
Mother
20. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
21. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
22. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
–––––––––––.
23. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
24. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
25. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1700
26. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination of
employment :–––––––––––.
27. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
28. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I, declare on my honour that answers given to the above
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
belief. I have read and understood the procedure which will be
adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates
who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published
in the Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
08–596
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE  AIRMEN/
AIRWOMEN  AND  VOLUNTEER  AIR  FORCE
AIRWOMEN  VACANCIES  AS  DIRECT  ENTRY
VACANCIES exist in the Regular Sri Lanka Air Force for Airmen/
Airwomen and V olunteer Air Force for Airwomen of the in the
trades are given below as Direct Entry :
1. ( a) Trades and Educational, Professional Qualifications
Required :–
(1) General Engineering Trades (Regular - Male) :
(a) Motor Transport Mechanic
(1) Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil,
English Languages, Mathematics and
Science. A credit pass for Mathematics/
Science will be an added qualification.
(2) Applicant for Motor Traffic Mechanic
Trade should have successfully completed
2 years full time certificate course of
Engineering Craft Practice (Motor
Mechanic) at a Technical College or any other
institute recognized by the Department of
Technical Education of Sri Lanka.
* Selected candidates will be enlisted to the
rank of Leading Aircraftsman.
(2) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
Trades (Regular - Male) :
(a) Air Radio Technician
(b) Telecommunication Technician
(1) Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil,
English Languages, Mathematics and
Science. A credit pass for Mathematics/
Science is essential ;
and
(2) Successful completion of two year fulltime
National Certificate Course in Engineering
Craft Practice (Electronics/Tele-
communications/Electrical) at a Technical
College recognized by the Ministry of
V ocational and Technical Training or
equivalent.
* Selected candidates will be enlisted to the
rank of Leading Aircraftsman.
(3) Administrative Trades (Regular - Male/Female) :
(a) Audit Assistant
(1) Passed the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination from
Commerce Stream.
(2) Passed Intermediate Level (Stage II) of
Association of Accounting Technician
(AA T) of Sri Lanka or completion of second
year of High National Diploma in
Accounting (HNDA) or High National
Diploma in Commerce (HNDC) of Sri Lanka
Technical College.
(3) Experience in the relevant feild will be added
advantage.
* Selected candidates will be enlisted to the
rank of Leading Aircraftsman.
(4) Operations Trades (Volunteer - Female) :
(a) Operations Ground (Hair Dresser/Beautician)
(1) Sat for the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1701
(2) Successfully completed Diploma in Hair and
Beauty Culture with minimum six month
duration.
(3) Possession of National V ocational
Qualification for beautician (NVQ Level
four) will be an advantage.
(4) Proficient in Hair Cutting, hair treatment and
Hair Styling of ladies and gents, Manicure
and pedicure treatment, facials, make up etc.
(5) Experience for more than 01 year.
* Selected candidates will be award the suitable
rank on their qualification.
(5) Physical Training Instructor Trade (Volunteer -
Female) :
(a) Physical Training Instructor (Physiotherapist
Assistant)
(1) Sat for the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
(2) Physical Therapy Assistant course and
Massage Therapist course successfully
completed at Sport Medical Unit Colombo.
Practical experience in the field of
Gymnasium and sports. (Certificate must
be forward).
* Selected candidates will be award the suitable
rank on their qualification.
2. Other Requirements. – Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer
Air Force :–
Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
Marital State : Regular Airmen/Airwomen (Unmarried)
V olunteer Airwomen (Married/Unmarried)
Age(as at 31st October 2015)
: Not less than 18 years and not more
than 28 years (Not less than 18 years
and not more than 26 years for Audit
Assistant) (Regular Male)
: Not less than 18 years and not more
than 26 years (Regular Female)
: Not less than 18 years and not more
than 30 years (V olunteer Female)
Height : 5 feet 5 inches and above (Regular
Male) ;
5 feet 3 inches and above (Regular/
V olunteer Female)
Weight : 17< BMI < 26 (Male)
17< BMI < 25 (Female)
BMI  = 
Weight (kg)  
Height2
Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
Vision Colour : CP 2
Standard
Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles and
lense)
Civil Status  :
* Regular Airmen/Airwomen : Candidates must be
unmarried. (Airmen/Airwomen is not allowed to
marry until the completion of two years from the
date of enlistment of after initial combat course).
* V olunteer Airwomen : Married/Unmarried.
Unmarried candidates is allowed to marry until the
completion of one year from the date of enlistment
of after initial combat course.
3. Candidates who do not possess the required educational
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 "a" or
paragraph 02 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the
height, weight and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height,
weight and vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette
Notification and who have no exceptional skills will not be
interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to
the service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force
be considered even though he/she may not have the requisite height
provided he/she possess the requisite academic and professional
qualifications.
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.
5. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force
Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with
effect from the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected Airmen/Airwomen candidates will be trained in
combat accordingly. They will be required to perform
combat duties and any type of duty, day and night, even
under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka
or abroad.
6. Terms of Engagement :–
(a) Regular Airmen and Airwomen
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the second class of
the rank of Leading Aircraftsman/Landing Aircraftwomen.
They shall be required to serve for 12 years in which 08
years will have to be served continuously whilst serving

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1702
a further 04 years in the Regular Air Force (Reserve)
when called to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable
Airmen/Airwomen to extend for further service on
completion of eight years of service on the discretion of
the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
(b) V olunteer Airwomen
Selected female candidates will be enlisted to the suitable
rank in the V olunteer Air Force and shall be required to
serve for 05 years in the V olunteer Air Force.
Opportunities exist for suitable Airwomen to extend for
further service on completion of 05 years of service on
the discretion of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air
Force.
7. Official Language Requirements.–  The selected candidates
must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government of
Sri Lanka.
8. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen/
Airwomen shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman - Rs. 173,100.00 - 6 x Rs. 1,740.00 - 19x
Rs. 2,040.00 - Rs. 222,300.00 per annum
Leading Aircraftman - Rs. 178,320.00 - 4x Rs. 1,740.00
- 19x Rs. 2,040.00 - Rs. 222,300.00 per annum
Corporal - Rs. 183,540.00 -10x Rs. 2,040.00 - 9 x
Rs. 2,880.00 - Rs. 229,860.00 Per annum
Sergeant - Rs. 187,620.00 - 3 x Rs. 2,040.00 - 9 x
Rs. 2,880 - 3 x Rs. 3,840.00 - Rs. 231,180.00 per
annum
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 191,700.00 - 1x Rs. 2,040.00 - 9x
Rs. 2,880.00 - 3 x Rs. 3,840.00 - Rs. 231,180.00 per
annum
Warrant Officer - Rs. 199,500.00 - 7x Rs. 2,880.00 -
14x Rs. 3,840.00 - Rs. 273,420.00 per annum
Master Warrant Officer - Rs. 223,500.00 - 13x
Rs. 3,840.00 - Rs. 273,420.00 per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated
pay scale applicable to airmen/airwomen increments in promotions
will be based in consideration to the service period, good conduct
and trade efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances of Rs. 7,800.00 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600.00 per month.
(3) Additional hard allowance - Rs. 3,900.00 per month
for those serving in operational areas.
(4) Special allowance I- Rs. 2,400.00 per month
(Rs. 80.00 will be paid per day).
(5) Special allowance II - 15% of consolidated salary and
Rs. 750.00.
(6) Incentive allowances - After completion of 05 years
service (Rs. 250.00 to Rs. 850.00 per month).
(7) Ration allowance - Rs. 13,500.00 per month for living
out Airmen (free messing for living-in Airmen).
(8) Uniform upkeep allowance - Rs. 170.00 per month.
(9) Interim allowance - Rs. 1,000.00 per month.
(10) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(11) Travelling - Three sets of holiday railway warrants per
year (for Airmen/Airwomen/Wife/Husband and
Children as applicable). One set of railway warrants
per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in
Airmen).
(12) Disturbance allowance - When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
(13) Qualification pay - For personnel who have qualified
in special courses or possess qualifications, which are
of special value to the service. (Up to maximum of
Rs. 637.50 per month).
(14) Good conduct badge pay - Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30/= to Rs. 511.50/= per month).
(15) Re-engagement pay - Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300/=
per month during the period of re-engagement.
(16) Medical facilities - Provided through Air Force expense
for Airmen/Airwomen and their married families.
(17) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T.
B. buses for living-out Airmen/Airwomen within a
radius of 30 miles (48km).
(18) Following rent allowance are payable to married
Airmen/Airwomen not in occupation of Government
married quarters Rs. 1,200/= - Rs. 3,300/= per month.
(19) Instructional pay - (Rs. 425/= to Rs. 510/= per month).
(20) Other allowance - (separation and overseas etc.) will
be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(21) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air
Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended
from time to time. All Airmen is contributors to the
Widows’ and Orphans’ Pensions (Armed Forces)
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows’ and
Orphans’ Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme
Regulations 1970).
(22) Budget interim allowance per month Rs. 10,000/=.
9. Instructions to Applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant’s own hand
writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages of
the application should be completed neatly with as much
details as possible. Applications should be forwarded under

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1703
registered cover to : “Command Recruiting Officer, Sri
Lanka Air Force, Trade Training School, Ekala, Kotugoda”
so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 31st August
2015. The envelope enclosing the application should be
marked “Application for Airmen/Airwomen in the
................ Trade”. A candidate will be allowed to apply
for only one trade, those who apply for more than one
trade the applications will be rejected. Applications
received after the closing date and not in accordance with
the requirements of this notification.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released
if selected.
(c) Interview date and time will be informed to suitable
candidate by registered post.
(d) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents when interviews or called upon to
do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued
for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificates in support of the educational
qualifications required.
(3) Certificates of Trade/Technical training and/or
experience obtained from a recognized institution.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these
should be from the Principal of the last school
attended and the other from a responsible person
who has the know of the applicant for more than two
years or from the present employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and
cadeting etc.
(e) Application of candidates who fail to produce document
when required to do so will not be considered.
10. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be
required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an
Air Force Recruiting Board.
11. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews,
he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do not
have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of
the accepted identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted
without the National Identity Card.
12. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected
according to high marks merit at these interviews.
13. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt to
influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification
of such candidates.
14. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
15. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not
be notified.
GP B
ULATHSINGHALA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION  FOR  AIRMEN/AIRWOMEN IN THE
SRI  LANKA  AIR FORCE
1. Full Name :––––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card)
2. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
3. Applied Trade :–––––––––––––.
4. Postal Address :–––––––––––––.
5. Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
6. Nearest Air Force Station :–––––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
8. District :–––––––––––.
9. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
10. G .S. Division :–––––––––––––.
11. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
12. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
13. Age (as at 31st October 2015) :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
14. Married or Single :–––––––––––––.
15. Gender :–––––––––––––.
16. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :–––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1704
17. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
18. G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
19. Any special qualifications for the post :––––––––––––.
(Eg.– Technical, Training and Experience etc.)
20. Details of special achievements in sports :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations :–––––––––––.
22. If previously applied for the Armed Forces of Police give
details :–––––––––––.
23. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? If so, give details :–––––––––––.
24. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and
the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force pubilshed
in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
08–597
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Open/ Limited Competitive Examination for  Recruitment
to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Agricultural
Service - 2013(2014)
APPLICATIONS are called by order of the Public Service
Commission for recruitment to the posts in Grade III of the Sri
Lanka Agricultural Service (indicated in Para 03 below) under the
provisions of the Minutes on the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service
published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary No: 1235/21 of 08.05.2002
and as amended by the Gazette Extraordinary  No: 1880/26 of
19.09.2014 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. In this notification : "Secretary" shall mean the Secretary to the
Ministry of Agriculture. "Service" shall mean the Sri Lanka
Agricultural Service.
2. Method of Recruitment :
2.1. Two competitive examinations will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for Open and
Limited applicants consisting of separate papers in
accordance with syllabuses prescribed in first and second
appendices.
2.2. This competitive examination will be held to recruit officers
to fill 310 vacancies existing in Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Agricultural.
2.3. Ratios of Recruitment from Existing V acancies :-
Stream Open Limited
 Agricultural Development 69 85
 Agricultural Research 88 59
 Agricultural Economics 5 4
3. 3.1. Posts Vacant/ Number of Vacancies  and Numbers Applied
to Posts :
Post  Number of Number of
V acancies the Post
 Assistant Director of Agriculture 154 1
(Agricultural Development)
 Assistant Director of Agriculture 147 2
(Agricultural Research)
 Assistant Director of Agriculture 9 3
(Agricultural Economics)
Note :-
* "An applicant who applies for Open competitive
examination is allowed to apply one or more than one
streams out of the streams of Agricultural Development,
Agricultural Research and Agricultural Economics. All
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1705
posts should be applied using only one application
prepared in accordance with the specimen.
* "An applicant who applies for Limited competitive
examination is allowed to apply only one Post and it
should be applied using an application prepared in
accordance with the specimen.
* "Applicants who apply for both Open and Limited
examinations should apply using two applications
prepared in accordance with the specimen.
4. Terms and Conditions of Engagement :-
4.1. These posts are permanent and pensionable.  Any officer
who will be appointed to any of above posts should
make his/her contributions to Widows'/ Widowers' and
Orphans' pension fund.
4.2. All officers in the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service are subject
to serve in all Provincial Public Services as required. For
this purpose the Officer will be temporarily released to a
post in the Provincial Public Service. Such term of service
will be determined on the consent between the relevant
Provincial Authority and the Appointing Authority
according to exigencies of service, requirement of the cadre
and other connected matters.
(a) Provincial authority will issue a letter of appointment
to the relevant    officer subject to the conditions of
release from the service. The officers appointed to
Provincial Councils will be subject to the transfers
within the Provincial Council made by the relevant
Provincial Authority.
(b) If an officer will be released to the provincial public
service, during   this period he/ she will be subject to
administration and discipline control of the Public
Service Commission.
(c) An officer who released to provincial public service
shall return to his /her substantial post at the end of
the period he/she so released.
4.3. Officers appointed to Grade III on the results of Open
Competitive Examination will be subject to a period of
three (03) years probation and on the results of Limited
Competitive examination will be subject to a period of
one year acting.  Officers appointed through Open
recruitment shall pass the first efficiency bar examination
before confirming in the post and through Limited
recruitment shall pass the First Efficiency bar examination
within three (03) years.
4.4. Skills Development :
Skills Development training will be provided to the officers
recruited to the service through one (01) month training
programme to acquire the skills on trends of Socio -
Economic and Cultural in relation to agricultural
development and job environment by the Department of
Agriculture or any other institute (Example : Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Administration) identified by
the Department. At the end of the programme a certificate
will be awarded after an assessment. This certificate should
be obtained for the confirmation in the service.
4.5. Officers selected should be agreeable to serve in any part
of the island
4.6. These appointments are subject to the provisions of the
Minute on the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service published in
the Gazette Extra Ordinary No: 1235/21 of 08.05.2002
and as amended by the Gazette Extra Ordinary No; 1880/26
of 19.09.2014 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka and amendments hereinafter made thereto.
4.7. Provisions of the Procedural Rules of the Public Service
Commission published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary No.
1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and provisions of the
Establishments code and General Conditions will apply
in respect of every appointment.
4.8. Reference is invited to the General conditions applicable
to appointments to posts in Public Service published in
Para: (IIB) of part I of this Gazette.
4.9. At the confirmation of officers appointed in their posts,
officers who entered the service in English medium should
inter alia gain proficiency in an Official Language i.e. Sinhala
or Tamil during the period of probation.  For exemption
from official Language proficiency tests, a certified copy
of the results sheet or the original certificate issued by the
Department of Examinations to the effect that passing of
the subject of Sinhala/Tamil at the G .C.E.(O/L)
Examination should be submitted.
4.10. In terms of the Constitution of Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, both Sinhala and Tamil languages
shall be official languages of Sri Lanka.  Therefore, the
Government Employees are required to obtain the
competency in the second language so as to perform their
duties in both these languages within prescribed period as
per provisions of Public Administration Circular No 01/
2014 and Circulars incidental thereto.
5. Salary Structure and Annual Salary Scale.– The consolidated
monthly salary scale assigned to these posts as per Public
Administration Circular 6/2006 is as follows :
SL1- 2006 - Rs. 22,935- 645 x 10 - 790 x 8 - 1050 x 17 -
Rs. 53,555. Recruitment will be made to Grade III  of the Sri
Lanka Agricultural Service.
Initial salary step of Grade III - Rs 22, 935.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1706
6. Open Competitive Examination.– An applicant may apply one
or more than one stream out of the streams of Agricultural
Development, Agricultural Research and Agricultural Economics
6.1. Qualifications:
6.1.1. Educational Qualifications:
6.1.1.1. For Streams of Agricultural Development and
Agricultural Economics:
Four year degree in Agricultural Science
obtained from a University recognized  by the
University Grants Commission
or
Four year degree in Bachelor of Science in
Agricultural Technology Management obtained
from a University recognized by the University
Grants Commission.
6.1.1.2. Stream of Agricultural Research
Four-year degree in Agricultural Science
obtained from a University recognized   by the
University Grants Commission.
or
Four-year degree in Bachelor of Science in the
subjects of Botany, Chemistry or Zoology
obtained from a University recognized by the
University Grant Commission.
or
Four-year degree in Bachelor of Science in
Agricultural Technology Management obtained
from University recognized by the University
Grants Commission.
6.1.2. Physical Requirements :
Every applicant shall be physically fit in all respect
to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
6.1.3. Other Qualification :
(a) All applicants must be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(b)  The age should not be less than 22 years and not
more than 30 years as at the closing date of
applications.  Accordingly an applicant qualifies
to sit the examination in terms of age only if his/
her date of birth falls on or before 21.09.1993
and on or after 21.09.1985.
(c) An applicant is eligible to sit the Open
competitive examination only thrice.
(d) Every applicant shall be physically fit in all
respect to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and it
should be proved by a medical certificate.
(e) All applicants must be excellent moral character.
(f) Every applicant shall fulfil the prescribed
qualifications as at the date specified in this
notification.  (Applicants apply for open
recruitment should have obtained degree
qualifications prescribed as basic educational
qualifications on or before the closing date of
applications.  For this purpose, the valid date of
the degree should be a date on or before the closing
date of applications.  Applications submitted on
pending results will not be valid.
6.2.Written Examination :
Subjects Maximum Pass
Marks Marks
(Minimum)
Intelligence Test Paper 100 40
Subject Matter Paper (In accordance
with the relevant post). The
syllabus is given in the first appendix 100 40
Note:-
1. Based on the order of the highest number of  the aggregate
of marks secured in the subject matter paper and
intelligence test paper described in the first appendix, a
number of applicants not  exceeding twice the number of
vacancies out of the applicants who have secured 40% or
more marks for every prescribed question paper shall be
called for an interview. Subsequently, scrutinizing the
qualifications of  applicants by the board of interview,
recruitment  to the vacancies shall be made in order of the
maximum aggregate of  marks secured in the subject matter
paper  and intelligence test paper out of  the applicants
who have proved their qualifications.
2. In open recruitment, in the event of  an applicant has
secured sufficient marks  for the selection of  more than
one scheduled posts having applied for one or more than
one scheduled posts,  recruitment shall be made taking in
to account the options of the  applicant and number of
vacancies as the case may be. The applicant shall express
his/ her option in writing at the interview and he/she shall
not be allowed to change it later.
3. Marks will not be awarded at the interview:
4. Issuance of results:
A list of qualified applicants twice the number of vacancies
will be provided to Secretary to the Public Service
Commission.  All applicants who appeared in the
examination will be dispatched the results personally or
via web-site www.results.exams.gov.lk

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1707
7. Limited Competitive Examination :
7.1. Qualifications for Limited Recruitment
7.1.1. Basic Qualifications:
7.1.1.1. For Stream of Agricultural Development.
(a) An officer who holds a post of Agricultural
Instructor in Special Grade of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service ;
or
(b) An officer who holds a post of Agricultural
Instructor and has completed at least 04
years active and satisfactory period of
service in Grade I of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service ;
or
(c) An officer who has fulfilled the
qualifications prescribed in above 6.1.1.1.
and has completed 05 years active and
satisfactory period of service in the field of
agriculture, viz. Agricultural Research,
Agricultural Development or Agricultural
Economics while serving in a post of
Associate Officer Service category ;
or
(d) An Officer who holds a post of  Garden
Assistant and has completed 10 years
active and satisfactory period of service ;
or
(e) An Officer who holds a post of Agricultural
Instructor or Garden Assistant possessing
a degree in Agricultural Science or Science
and has completed 05 years active and
satisfactory period of service.
7.1.1.2. For Stream of Agricultural Economics:
(a) An officer who holds a post of Economist
Assistant and has completed 05 years active
and satisfactory period of service ;
or
(b) An officer who has fulfilled the qualifications
prescribed in above 6.1.1.1. and has completed
05 years active and satisfactory period of
service in the field of Agriculture, viz.
Agricultural Research, Agricultural
Development or Agricultural Economics while
serving in a post of Associate Officer Service
Category.
7.1.1.3. For Stream of Agricultural Research:
 (a) An officer who holds a post of Research
Assistant, Soil Surveyor or Land Evaluation
Officer in Special Grade of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service ;
or
(b) An officer who holds a post of Research
Assistant, Soil Surveyor or Land Evaluation
Officer and has completed a minimum  period
of 04 years active and satisfactory service in
Grade I of the Sri Lanka Technological
Service ;
or
(c) An officer who has fulfilled the qualifications
prescribed in above 6.1.1.2. and has
completed 05 years active and satisfactory
period of service in the field of Agriculture,
viz. Agricultural Research, Agricultural
Development or Agricultural Economics
while serving in a post of Associate Officer
Service category ;
or
(d) An officer who holds a post of Research
Assistant, Soil Surveyor or Land Evaluation
Officer possessing a degree in Agricultural
Science or Science and has completed a period
of 05 years active and satisfactory service.
Note:
1. Officers holding the posts of associate officer service
category should apply only under one stream out of
streams of Agricultural Development, Agricultural
Economics or Agricultural Research.
2. Having held a post of Agriculture Monitoring Officer or
Program Assistant (Agriculture) as at 18. 09. 2009 being
the date on which the Gazette Extra Ordinary No. 1619/
25 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka was
published by amending the Minute on the Sri Lanka
Agricultural Service as per ruling given as per supreme
court Application No. 61/ 2006 and being an officer
holding a post of Agriculture Monitoring Officer or
Program Assistant who completed 5- year active service
will be considered as a basic qualification to apply under
limited recruitment and those officers could apply for
limited recruitment only under one stream among
Agricultural Development, Agricultural Economics or
Agricultural Research streams.
7.1.2. Physical Requirements. – All applicant shall be
physically and mentally fit in every respect to serve
in any part of Sri  Lanka.
7.1.3. Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicant must be of excellent Moral Character.
(ii) Applicant should fulfill required qualifications
on or before the date specified in this notification.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1708
(iii) Concessions or promotions granted to an
applicant with retrospective effect, subsequent
to the date specified in the notification for calling
applications will not be treated as fulfilling of
the prescribed qualifications for the examination.
IV . Completion of a period of satisfactory service during
immediately preceding 05 years.
7.2. Method of Recruitment :
7.2.1. Written Examination :
In the Limited Examination, the question paper to
assess the knowledge of the subject matter will be
prepared mainly focusing on the field experiences
(vide. Second Appendix)
Subjects Maximum Pass
Marks Marks
Intelligence Test Paper 100 40
Subject Matter Paper (In accordance 100 40
with the relevant post the syllabus
is given in the second appendix)
7.2.2. Structured Interview : Marks will be awarded to
seniority and basic qualifications will be scrutinized
(a)  Applicants shall answer the intelligence test
paper and the relevant subject matter question
paper as prescribed in the second appendix for
each post referred to in sub-Para 7.1 above.
(b)  Applicants who have secured 40% or more
marks in prescribed two question papers shall
only be called for the interview.
(c)  Documents and certificates in proof of the basic
qualifications of the applicants will also be
examined at the interview.
(d) Subsequent to submitting the marks obtained
for seniority to the Sri Lanka Department of
Examinations, the Department of Examinations
will prepare final priority list of Limited
examination by adding marks for seniority and
marks of written examination and forwarded it
to the Public Service Commission.  Recruitments
will be made on the order of merit of that list.
Method of Awarding Marks for Seniority at the
Interview :
The period of active service of an applicant with
effect from the date of fulfillment of prescribed
qualifications up to the closing date of
applications shall only be reckoned for the
purpose of awarding marks for seniority. Subject
to a maximum of 30 marks, at a rate of two (02)
marks for each year of such period of active
service and at a rate of one (01) mark for a period
of service extending to 180 days or more shall be
awarded.
8. Examination Fee :
8.1. If apply for only one post, the fee is Rs. 800/-
8.2. If apply for two or more posts, the fee is Rs. 1000/-
The receipt obtained on payment of the examination fee
to any post office in the island by cash to be credited to
government revenue under the revenue head 2003-02-
13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations should
be affixed in the relevant place from one of it edges so as
to be unglued.  Money orders and stamps are not
accepted for the examination fee and the examination
fee so paid will not be refunded or changed for other
examination in any circumstance.  Keep a photocopy of
the receipt would be an advantage.
9. Instructions to Prepare the Application and Apply to the
Examination :
9.1. The applicants who apply for the Open Competitive
examination, Limited Competitive examination or both
Open & Limited competitive examinations should
forwarded only one application.  The applicants who
apply for the Open Competitive examination, Limited
Competitive Examination or both Limited & open
competitive examination should prepare their application
in compliance with the specimen appended at the end
of this notification.  The application should be prepared
on a 8 ½ X 12 inches (A4 size) paper using both sides of
the paper and should be clearly filled by the applicant
in his/her own hand writing.  It should be specially
noted that the application is required to be prepared as
from No 01 to 06 of the application on the first page
and remainder on pages 02 and 03.
9.2.  Applications which are not in accordance with the
specimen application, not completed in every respect,
altered using correction fluid and the applications in
which code numbers and other information are scratched
out will be rejected without notice.  It is noted that a
photo copy of the application posted should essentially
be kept with the applicant and the applicant shall be
ready to produce it if necessary at the time of calling for
the interview.
9.3.  The name of the examination appeared either Sinhala or
Tamil Language in the application is required to be
printed in English Language also. Applications should
be sent only by registered post to reach the
"Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examination Branch, Sri Lanka Department
of Examination, P.O. Box 1503, Colombo" on or before

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1709
21st September 2015. The words "Open/Limited
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Sri
Lanka Agricultural Service- 2013(2014)" should be
clearly marked on the top left hand corner of the envelop
enclosing the application.
9.4.  Applications received after the closing date of
applications will not be entertained. The applicants who
apply for the Limited Competitive Examination should
sent their applications through the Director-in-Charge
of the Unit/ Secretary of the Ministry-in-Charge of the
subject of Agriculture in case of a Provincial Council.
N. B. - Applications which are not in accordance with the
specimen appears at the end of the notification, not
completed in every respect and not in order will be rejected
without any notice. Applications should not be addressed
personally to Officials of the Department or the Ministry.
No complaint that an application has been lost or delayed
in the post will be considered.
10. Admission to the Examination :
10.1. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to the applicants whose ages are within
the age limits specified in this notice (only for open
applicants) and who have sent duly completed
applications with the relevant receipt obtained on
payment of the examination fee on or before the closing
date of applications.  . An applicant presenting himself/
herself for the examination must produce his/her
admission card to the supervisor of the examination
centre. An applicant who fails to produce his/her
admission card will not be permitted to sit the
examination. The Sri Lanka Department of Examinations
will publish a notice in news papers soon after the
issuance of admission cards to the applicants. Any
applicant who does not receive his/her admission cards
two or three days after the notification, should notify
that effect to the Department of examinations as
mentioned in this notification.  Applicants are informed
to notify to the Department of Examination indicating
full name, NIC number and address of the applicant and
keeping the copy of application which is retained by
you copy of receipt of payment of examination fee and
copy of the receipt of registration of the application
issued when application was sent by registered post in
hand and in case of an applicant living outside Colombo,
to obtain a copy of the admission card by fax, it would
be more productive to notify to the Department of
Examination by faxing a request including your above
information and a fax number.
10.2. An applicant must sit the Examination at the Examination
Hall assigned to him/her. Every applicant should
surrender the admission card to the supervisor of the
Examination Hall of the first day presenting himself/
herself for the Examination. It is the responsibility of
every applicant to answer the question paper prescribed
for the examination to which he/she presents himself/
herself. A set of rules to be followed by all applicants is
published in this Gazette. All applicants are subject to
the rules imposed by the commissioner General of
Examinations in connection with this examination. An
applicant who violates any of these rules is liable to a
punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
10.3. Issuance of an admission card to an applicant does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite
qualifications to sit for the examination.
11.Place of Examination and Date. - This Examination will be
held by the Commissioner General of Examinations only in Colombo
on December 2015
12. Identification of the applicant.– An applicant will be required
to prove his/her identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction
of the supervisor for each subject he/she appears. For this purpose
only the following documents will be accepted.
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons (V alid)
(b) A valid passport.
13. Scheme of Examination :
13.1. Medium of the Examination:
The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media. The language of the examination given in the
application will not be allowed to change later.
13.2. An applicant must sit for all papers of the examination
in one and the same language.
14. Competitive Examination Procedure and Relevant Syllabus.–
All applicants shall answer the question papers 1 and 2 in accordance
with the syllabuses hereinafter referred to.
Syllabuses for each post are indicated in first and second
appendices.
15. Interview :
15.1. The Board of Interview will be appointed by the Public
Service Commission.
15.2. Where an applicant has applied for two scheduled posts
and has secured sufficient marks for selection to both
posts, recruitment will be made taking in to account the
preference of the applicant and the number of vacancies,
as the case may be.  The applicants should express their
option in-writing at the interview and it will be not
allowed to change later.
15.3. Marks for Seniority will be awarded only to the limited
applicants

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1710
16. No Certificate should be attached to the application.
Applicants should prepare to produce the originals of the certificates
in support of the qualifications stated in their applications only at
the interview.
17. Furnishing False Information.– If an applicant is found to be
ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage
prior to during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by an applicant found to be false or if he/she has willfully
suppressed any material, fact, he/she will be liable to dismissal from
the Public Service.
18. If any confusion arises about applications or method of
selection, the decision of the Appointing Authority shall be deemed
final.
19. The final decision to fill all or part of existing vacancies will be
taken by the Appointing Authority.
20. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and
English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail
By order of the Public Service Commission.
Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture.
"Govijana Mandiraya"
Rajamalwaththa Lane,
Baththaramulla.
On this day of  05th August, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
P
UBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
OPEN/ LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE
GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA AGRICULTURAL SERVICE - 2013(2014)
                          (for office use only)
Post/ posts relevant to the Examination applied for
(vide. Paragraphs 03, 06 and 07)
Post and No. of the post applied Post and No. of the post Medium of the examination ( Vide. Para. 13) of the Gazette
for the limited competitive applied for the open notification indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
examination competitive examination
Sinhala - 2
Post No. of the Posts No. of the T amil - 3
post post English - 4
1. 1. If apply for the post of Assistant Director of (Agricultural
2. Research), the part of the question paper selected to be answered is
3. (in accordance with first Appendix, if (A) indicate “1”
in the cage and if “B” indicate “2” in the cage. This will
not be allowed to change later)
01. (i) Full Name(in English capital letters) :––––––––––––––––.
Ex.: HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNEWARDENA)
(ii) Name with initials, stating the initials at the end :
(a) In Sinhala/Tamil  :––––––––––––––––.
(b) In English (Ex.: JAYANTHA. M.A.C) :––––––––––––––––.
(iii) Full Name :
(a) In Sinhala/ Tamil  :––––––––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent address (Admission card will be posted to this address)
(a) In Sinhala/ Tamil :––––––––––––––––.
(b) In English capital letters :––––––––––––––––.
(ii) Official address (If an officer in the Public Service his/her official address should be stated.  Any change in the address should be
notified immediately)
(a) In Sinhala/ Tamil :––––––––––––––––.
(b) In English capital letters :––––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1711
03. Sex (indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
Male - 0
Female - 1
04. (i) National Identity Card No. :
05. (i) Date of Birth :     Year : Month :   Date :
(ii) Age as at the closing date of applications :     Years : Months: Days :
06. Telephone No. :
07. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka(indicate the relevant word in the cage)  :     Yes/ No
08. Educational Qualifications :
8.1. Degree Qualifications :
Degree/ Degrees obtained Academic year University/ Subjects Pass Medium
1. Four year degree in Agricultural Science and the valid Universities
2. Four year degree in Science (in Botany, Chemistry or Zoology) date of the degree
4. Four year degree in Agricultural Technology Management (indicate clearly)
(i)
09. State whether you have sat competitive examinations for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service before? If so indicate the year/
years :––––––––––––––––.
10. State the qualifications obtained by applicants who apply for Limited Competitive examination to be eligible sit for the exa mination
under para 07 of this notification :
Present Post Post eligible to be recruited under Date of obtaining eligibility to apply for
limited recruitment the post of
1. Research Assistant 1. ADA (Agricultural Research) ADA (Agricultural Research)
2. Soil surveyor 2. ADA (Agricultural Development) ADA(Agricultural Development)
3. Land Evolution Officer 3. ADA  (Agricultural Economics) ADA (Agricultural Economics)
4. Agricultural Instructor (date of completing the qualifications as
5. Economist Assistant per Para 7.1. of the notification)
6. Garden Assistant
7. Associate Officers Service  Category
(State the post)
11. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence ? Yes/No.  If Yes give detail .......
12.  Particulars on the Receipt obtained on payment of Examination Fee:
(i) The post office to which examination fee was paid :
(ii) Receipt No. : …………………………… Date: …………………..
(iii) Amount Paid: ……………………………….
Affix the receipt here from on of its edges so as to be unglued.
(it would be an advantage to keep a photocopy of the receipt)

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1712
13. Declaration of the Applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in this
application are true and correct.  I am also aware that if any particular
contained herein is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification if detected before selection and to dismissal with
immediate effect, if detected  after the selection and, I will be
responsible for any lapse caused while preparing the application.
Further, I agree to abide by the rules imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations, I also declare that I have paid the prescribed
Examination fee and  submitted only one application.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Attestation of the applicant's signature
I hereby certify that  Mr./ Mrs./ Miss ............................... is
known to me personally and that he/she placed his/ her signature in
my presence on this day of  ………………………… 2015.  Further
I certify that he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and
affixed the relevant receipt.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department / Head of the
Provincial Department/ Provincial Secretary in-charge of the
subject of Agriculture
I hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss ................................ is
employed in this Department/ Provincial Council as a
............................ , his/ her work and conduct are satisfactory, he/
She has/ has not earned all increments during immediately proceeding
05 years.  he/she has fulfilled the all relevant qualifications to the
post as per Para 7.1., he/she is eligible in every respect to apply for
this post and that there is/ there is no disciplinary action pending
against him/her.  If selected, he/she can be/ can't be released from his/
her present post (Write-off the words inapplicapable.)
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature and Official Seal of the Head of the
Department / Head of the Provincial
Department/ Provincial Secretary
in-charge of the subject of Agriculture.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
FIRST APPENDIX
Regulations and Syllabus of the Open Competitive Examination
 Question Paper -I - Intelligence Paper
A multiple - choice short questions paper including questions
to assess the language' mathematics and logical ability.
Duration 1 ¼ hours. Total marks 100.
 Question paper -2 - Assessment of Knowledge in Subject
Area.
This is a written aptitude test to assess the knowledge in the
relevant subject area. Each applicant may sit for question
papers as relevant to the post or posts he/she applies for,
chosen from the following question papers. These question
papers consist of short questions and multiple - choice
questions. Duration 02 hours. Total marks 100.
Note: - Subject Matter paper in the Open Competitive
Examination will be prepared mainly focusing the
theoretical knowledge in accordance with the following
syllabus. Examination will be held as determined by the
Director General of Examinations.
Syllabuses in respect of each post are enumerated below:
(i) Question paper for the Stream of Agricultural Research:
Applicants shall answer only one part out of the two parts
referred to in (A) and (B) bellow, as they wish.
PART (A)
01. Agricultural Botany:-
Fundamentals of crop Gradeification, fundamentals of crop
growth and physiology.
02. Genetics and Plant Breeding:
Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations, molecular
genetics, cytogenetic, quantitative genetics, fundamentals of
plant breeding, genetic resources protection and bio- diversity,
pollination behavior and breeding concepts, incompatibility,
mass and pure line selection, commonly used breeding methods
and current trends.
03. Plant Pathology:
Types of pathogenic organisms, infections, response of plant
to infections, infective methods and fundamentals of their
management, current trends in plant pathology and disease
management, diagnostic techniques, symptomatology, Koch's
postulate application , modern techniques of diagnosis
(ELISA) , current trends.
04. Fundamentals of Entomology :
Fundamentals of Gradeification of animals , structural
characteristics, biological information and damage, economic
significance of pest damage, estimation of insect population
and damage.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1713
05. Seed Technology:
Seed physiology, morphology, dormancy germination, viability,
tests on viability and purity, stages of seed production, seed
certification and seed storage.
06. Tissue Culture:
Theories, facilities and requirements for tissue culture , media
, applications of tissue culture systems, protoplast culture,
mutagenesis, embryo rescue, in vitro fertilization, genetic
transformations , cryopreservation.
07. Agricultural Chemistry:
Fundamentals of biochemistry and practical applications of
biochemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of food chemistry
and practical applications of food chemistry in agriculture,
fundamentals of analytical chemistry and practical applications
of analytical chemistry in agriculture; or
PART (B)
 01. Agronomy
Agro-climatology, ecology, land development, tillage,
fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, measurement
of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and
efficiency, weed biology and control ,principles of irrigation
systems, principles of crop soil and water relationship.
02. Crop Science
Physiology of rice, highland grains, pulses, tuber crops, and
other field crops, growth, methods of propagation, methods
of planting, physical chemical and biological methods in crop
manipulation, establishment and management of scientific
pastures, fundamentals of timber and fruit production.
03. Soil Science
Soil formation, physical and chemical characteristics of soil.
soil problems relating to cropping, fertility management of
soil, watershed management, plant nutrition , fundamentals
of plant Gradeification.
04. Genetics and Plant Breeding:
Fundamentals, Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations,
molecular genetics, cytogenetic, fundamentals of plant
breeding, genetic resources protection and bio-diversity.
05 . Plant Pathology:
Plant infections, response of plants to infections, biological
control, modern trends in disease management.
06. Fundamentals of Entomology:
Indicated under sub-paragraph 04 of question paper (A)
07. Field research principles and statistical principles and
knowledge in important statistics on agricultural sphere in Sri
Lanka.
08. Entomology:
Economically significant insects in agriculture , their
Gradeification , internal and external features, structure of
different systems and their  functions, pest management,
significance of pest damage, pest identification ,their damage
and control, integrated pest management.
09. Micro - biology:
Micro - organisms and agricultural environment, bio-
technology applications in agriculture, soil-living biomass and
their effects on agricultural practices.
10. Biometrics and Applied Statistics:
Basic knowledge in statistics, agricultural research, analysis
of planning, obtaining and analysis of data.
Note: It will be compulsory for all the applicants for the
stream of Agricultural Research  through Open Recruitment
to answer only any part of the 02 parts referred to as (A)
and (B) above.
(ii) Question paper for the Stream of Agricultural
Development
01. General Agriculture
Climatic zones of Sri Lanka, land development, land
preparation  and equipment, crop establishment and machinery
required for the purpose, soil and soil  fertility, nursery and
nursery management, planting material, pest  control, plant
protection, appliances, cropping systems, irrigation methods
,integrated farming, protected agriculture, micro-irrigation
systems, harvesting and harvesting machinery, post-harvest
losses, processing of farm products, factors considered in
selecting suitable vegetables, fruits, pulses and cereals for
cultivation in specific areas, integrated pest management,
integrated plant nutrition  systems, Plant Protection Act, Soil
Conservation Act.
02. Crop Production:
Agronomy, agro-climatology and ecology, land development
and tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology,
measurement of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer
recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control,
irrigation agronomy, principles of crop water relationship.
03. Field Crops:
Introduction, ecological requirements, plant species and
varieties, growth physiology, physiological principles of yield
determination, rice agronomy, crop management and
production, highland cereals, legumes, tuber crops and other
important field crops (tobacco, onion, fiber and oil crops).
04. Crop Management:
Intercropping, harvesting and processing.
05. Horticultural Crop Production:
Fruit production, nutritional value, social and economic
factors, origin and distribution, ecological requirements, cultural
practices, application of modern techniques.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1714
06. Fruit, vegetable and flower production:
Nursery management, orchard management ,modern techniques
in crop establishment and culture, fruit  and vegetable crop
improvement, fruit and vegetable based cropping systems,
post harvest losses, prevention of post harvest losses of fruits
and vegetables, biotechnology , local and export markets for
fruits and vegetables, present constraints and future strategies,
requirements for vegetable production, vegetable based
cropping systems, marketing, floriculture, propagation
techniques, cultural practices, quality parameters, principles
of landscape gardening.
07. Agricultural Extension and Training
Introduction of agricultural extension and objectives,
agricultural development and extension, adaptation and
diffusion of  innovations, communication, teaching methods
of extensions, extension approaches used in Sri Lanka, relation
between research and extension, preparation of extension
programmes, review and evaluation, institutions associated
with agricultural extension in Sri Lanka,  adult education, training
procedure, various techniques used in identifying training
requirements ,arrangement of lessons, evaluation of training,
use of audio-visual devices for training.
08. Seed Technology:
Seed physiology, structure, morphology, germination, viability,
seed testing, tests on viability and purity, stages of seed
production, seed certification, and seed storage.
09. Apiculture:
Types of bees and hives in a colony, parts of bee boxes,
capturing of bee colonies, establishment, dividing, pest and
diseases in a bee colony.
(iii) Question  paper for the Stream of Agricultural Economics
01. Agricultural Production / Economics and Farm
Management :
Importance of farm management in agricultural production,
basic concepts, production functions, forms of production
functions, production surfaces, ISO- quant, ISO-clines, ISO-
revenue lines, principles of resources combination and cost
minimization, principles of diminishing returns, substitution
and  income effects, flexibility and diversification of
adjustments of production to meet risk and uncertainty in
agriculture, price theory with special emphasis relating to
pricing of agricultural products, evaluation of  crop - livestock
combination, farm site and returns to scale, principles of
importance and comparative advantage of family farms,
importance of records in determining the strong and weak
points in the farm mechanization and incorporation of  this
information in optimization models.
02. Agricultural Marketing:
           General principles of marketing, relative importance of such
production and marketing, institutions dealing with marketing
in Sri Lanka, role of such institutions in influencing the growth
of markets, problems facing the marketing of agricultural
products in Sri Lanka and principles involved in improving
marketing efficiency.
03. Land Economics:
Economics concepts as applied to land use, demand for land
supply in Sri Lanka, land use planning in Sri Lanka, importance
of colonization and settlement programmes in Sri Lanka.
SECOND APPENDIX
Regulation of the Limited Competitive Examination and the
relevant syllabus.
Question Paper -1 - Intelligence Test
A question paper consists of multiple - choice and short questions
to assess the knowledge in the language, mathematics and logical
ability. Duration 1 ¼ hours. Total number of makes 100.
Question Paper -2 - Assessment of Knowledge in Subject Matter
This is a written aptitude test to assess the knowledge in the
relevant subject area. Each applicant may sit for question papers as
relevant to the post or posts he/she applies for, chosen from the
following question papers. These question papers consist of short
questions and multiple choice questions. Duration 02 hours .Total
number of marks 100.
Note: Subject Matter paper in the Limited Competitive
Examination will be prepared mainly focusing on the
experiences in the field in accordance with the following
syllabus. Examination will be held as determined by the
Director General of Examinations.
         Syllabuses in respect of each post are enumerated below:
(i) Question paper for the Stream of Agricultural Research:
Applicants shall answer only one out of the two parts referred
to in (A) and (B) bellow, as they wish.
PART (A)
01. Agricultural Botany:-
Fundamentals of crop Gradeification, fundamentals of crop
growth and physiology.
02. Genetics and Plant Breeding:
Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations, molecular
genetics, cytogenetics, quantitative genetics, fundamentals of

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1715
plant breeding, genetic resources protection and bio - diversity,
pollination behavior and breeding concepts, incompatibility,
mass and pure line selection, commonly used breeding methods
and  current trends.
03. Plant Pathology:
Types of pathogenic organisms, infections, response of plant
to infections, infective methods and fundamentals of their
management, current trends in plant pathology and disease
management, diagnostic techniques, symptomatology, Koch's
postulate application , modern techniques of diagnosis
(ELISA) and current trends.
04. Fundamentals of Entomology :
Fundamentals of Gradeification of animals, structural
characteristics of insects, biological information and damage,
economic significance of pest damage, estimation of insect
population and damage.
05. Seed Technology:
Seed physiology, morphology, dormancy germination, viability,
seed tests and tests on purity , stages of seed production,
seed certification and seed storage.
06. Tissue Culture:
Theories, requirements and facilities for tissue culture, media,
applications of tissue culture systems, protoplast culture,
mutagenesis, embryo rescue, in vitro fertilization, genetic
transformation, cryopreservation.
07. Agricultural Chemistry:
Fundamentals of biochemistry and practical applications of
biochemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of food chemistry
and practical applications of food chemistry in agriculture,
fundamentals of analytical chemistry and practical applications
of analytical chemistry in agriculture;
or
PART (B)
01. Agronomy  :
Agro-climatology, ecology, land development, tillage,
fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, measurement
of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and
efficiency, weed biology and control ,principles of irrigation
systems, principle of crop soil and water relationship.
02. Crop Science :
Physiology of rice, highland grains, pulses, tuber crops and
other field crops, vegetative propagation methods of planting,
physical chemical and biological methods in crop manipulation,
establishment and management of scientific pastures,
fundamentals of timber and fruit production.
03. Soil Science  :
Soil formation, physical and chemical characteristics of soil.
soil problems relating to cropping, fertility management of
soil, watershed management, plant nutrition , fundamentals
of plant Gradeification.
04. Genetics and Plant Breeding:
Fundamentals, Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations,
molecular genetics, cytogenetic, fundamentals of plant
breeding, genetic resources protection and bio-diversity.
05. Plant Pathology:
Plant infections response of plants to infections, biological
control, modern trends in disease management.
06. Fundamentals of Entomology:
Indicated under sub-Para 04 of question paper (A)
07. Field research principles and statistical principles and
knowledge in important statistics on agricultural sphere in Sri
Lanka.
08. Entomology:
Economically significant insects in agriculture, their
Gradeification, internal and external features, structure of
different systems and their functions, pest management,
significance of pest damage, pest identification, their damage
and control, integrated pest management.
09. Micro - biology:
Micro - organisms and agricultural environment, bio-
technology applications in agriculture, soil-living biomass and
their effects on agricultural practices.
10. Biometrics and Applied Statistics:
Basic knowledge in statistics, Agricultural research , analysis
of planning, obtaining and analysis of data.
Note: It will be compulsory for all the applicants who apply
for the stream of Agricultural Research through Limited
Recruitments to answer only any part of the 02 parts
referred to in (A) or (B) above.
(ii) Question paper for the Stream of Agricultural
Development:
01. General Agriculture
Climatic Zones of Sri Lanka, land development, land
preparation  and equipment, crop establishment and machinery

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1716
required for the purpose, soil and soil  fertility, nursery and
nursery management, planting materials, pest control, plant
protection, appliances, cropping systems, irrigation methods
,integrated farming, protected agriculture, micro-irrigation
systems, harvesting and harvesting machinery, post-harvest
losses, processing of farm products, factors considered in
selecting suitable vegetable, fruits, pulses and cereals for
cultivation in specific areas, integrated pest management,
integrated plant nutrition  systems, Plant Protection Act, Soil
Conservation Act.
02. Crop Production:
Agronomy, agro-climatology and ecology, land development
and tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology,
measurement of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer
recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control,
irrigation, agronomy, principles of crop water relationship.
03. Field Crops:
Introduction, ecological requirements, plant species and
varieties, growth physiology, physiological principles of yield
determination, rice agronomy, crop management and
production, highland cereals, legumes, tuber crops and other
important field crops (tobacco, onion, fiber and oil crops).
04. Crop Management:
Intercropping, harvesting and processing.
05. Horticultural Crop Production:
Fruit production, nutritional value, social and economic
factors, origin and distribution, ecological requirements, cultural
practices, application of modern techniques.
06. Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Production:
Nursery management, orchard management ,modern techniques
in crop establishment and culture, fruit  and vegetable crop
improvement, fruit and vegetable based cropping systems,
post harvest losses, prevention of post harvest losses of fruits
and vegetables, biotechnology, local and export markets for
fruits and vegetables, present constraints and future strategies,
requirements for vegetable production, vegetable based
cropping systems, marketing, floriculture, propagation
techniques, cultural practices, quality parameters, principles
of landscape gardening.
07. Agricultural Extension and Training
Introduction of agricultural extension and objectives,
agricultural development and extension, adaptation and
diffusion of  innovations, communication, teaching methods
of extensions, extension approaches used in Sri Lanka, relation
between research and extension, preparation of extension
programmes, review and evaluation, institutions associated
with agricultural extension in Sri Lanka,  adult education, training
procedure , various techniques used in identifying training
requirements , arrangement of lessons , evaluation of training
, use of audio-visual devices for training.
08. Seed Technology:
Seed physiology, structure, morphology, germination, viability,
seed testing, tests on viability and purity, stages of seed
production, seed certification, and seed storage.
09. Apiculture:
Types of bees and hives in a colony, parts of bee boxes,
capturing of bee colonies, establishment, dividing, pest and
diseases in a bee colony.
(iii) Question  paper for the Stream of Agricultural
Economics:
01. Agricultural Production, Economics and Farm
Management :
Importance of farm management in agricultural production,
basic concepts, production functions, forms of production
functions, production surfaces, iso- quant, iso-clines, iso-
revenue lines, principles of  resources combination and cost
minimization, principles of diminishing returns, substitution
and  income effects, flexibility and diversification of
adjustments of production to meet risk and uncertainty in
agriculture, price theory with special emphasis relating to
pricing of agricultural products, evaluation of  crop - livestock
combination, farm site and returns to scale, principles of
importance and comparative advantage of family farms,
importance of records in determining the strong and weak
points in the farm mechanization and incorporation of  this
information in optimization models.
02. Agricultural Marketing:
General principles of marketing, relative importance of such
production and marketing, institutions dealing with marketing
in Sri Lanka, role of such institutions in influencing the growth
of markets, problems facing the marketing of agricultural
products in Sri Lanka and principles involved in improving
marketing efficiency.
03. Land Economics:
Economics concepts as applied to land use, demand for land
supply in Sri Lanka, land use planning in Sri Lanka, importance
of colonization and settlement programmes in Sri Lanka.
08–571

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.08.2015
1717
Amendment
MINISTRY  OF  FOREIGN  AFFAIRS
Competitive Examination for Filling Vacancies in the Public Management Assistants' Service Cadre in Sri Lanka
Missions/Posts Abroad - 2014 (2015)
REFERENCE the Gazette notification No. 1926 published on 30.07.2015 under the heading "Competitive Examination to recruit officers for
filling vacancies in the Public Management Assistants' Service Home Based Cadre in Sri Lanka Missions/Posts Abroad -2014/2015". It is
hereby notified that the last date for submission of applications to the Department of Examinations for filling vacancies in th e Public
Management Home Based Cadre in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad is revised as 16.09.2015.
CHITRANGANEE WAGISWARA,
Secretary,
Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Post Box 583,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
21st August, 2015.
08–747
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.