

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIII fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'24
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2016
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART III – LANDS
Land Acquisition Notices
wxl 1994$72 – 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 24 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2016'11'24
No. 1994/72 – THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 24, 2016
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
THE  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY  LAW,  NO. 41  OF  1978
Order under Section 3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 3 of the Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978, I Patalee Champika
Ranawaka, Minister of Megapolis and Western Development, being of the opinion that the area specified in Column I, [excluding the already
declared areas also mentioned under Schedule I and II in Column I] hereto, having specified the metes and bounds in the corrsponding entry
in Column II of the Schedule hereto are suitable for development, do by this order declare such area to be an Urban Development Area.
PATALEE CHAMPIKA RANAW AKA,
Minister of Megapolis and Western Development.
Ministry of Megapolis & Western Development,
17th and 18th Floor,
"Suhurupaya",
Subuthipura Road,
Battaramulla.
18th November, 2016.
SCHEDULE I
Declaration of additional Pradeshiya Sabha area as an
Urban Development area along with the already declared
Walasmulla Urban development Area
Column I
All the area of lands comprising of No. 448 Galahitiya East Grama
Niladhari Division,  No. 450 Galahitiya South Grama Niladhari
Division, No. 451 Omara West Grama Niladhari Division, No. 454
Walasmulla East Grama Niladhari Division, No. 456 Koholana Grama
Column II
North :
From the intersection of Western boundary of Ethpitiya Grama
Niladhari Division, and Northern boundary of Yahalamulla Grama
Niladhari Division, a line drawn North East wards along the Northern

<!-- page 2 -->

2A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'24
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2016
boundary of Ethpitiya Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the
Eastern boundary of Ethpitiya Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a
line drawn Southeastwards, Southwards and Southeastwards until it
meets the 
Northern boundary of Omara West Grama Niladhari
Division; thence, a line drawn Eastwards, Northeastwards,
Northwards, Eastwards along the Northern boundary of Omara West
Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the Eastern boundary of
Omara West Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn
Sotheastwards  along the Eastern boundary of Omara West Grama
Niladhari Dvision until it meets the  Northern boundary of Galahitiya
South Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn Northeastwards
along the Northern boundary of Galahitiya South Grama Niladhari
Division until it meets the Eastern boundary of Galahitiya South
Grama Niladhari Division;
East :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn Sotheastwards,
Southwards, Westwards, Southwards, Southeastwards and
Southwestwards along the Eastern boundary of Galahitiya South
Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the meeting point of Northern
and Eastern boundaries of Galahitiya East Grama Niladhari Division;
thence, aline drawn Southeastwards and Southwestwards along the
Eastern boundary of Galahitiya East Grama Niladhari Division until
it meets the meeting point of Northern and Eastern boundaries of
Morakandegoda Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn
Southeastwards, Westwards and Southwestwards along the Eastern
boundary of Morakandegoda Grama Niladhari Division until it meets
the meeting point of Northern and Eastern boundaries of Pahala
Talahagamwaduwa Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn
Southwestwards, Southwards, Southwestwards, Southwards and
Southwestwards along the Eastern boundary of Pahala
Thalahagamwaduwa until it meets the Northern boundary of
Kadigamuwa West Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn
Eastwards, Northeastwards, Southeastwards and Northeastwards
until it meets the Eastern boundary of Kadigamuwa West Grama
Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn Southwestwards and
Southwards along the Eastern boundary of Kadigamuwa West
boundary until it meets the Southern boundary of Kadigamuwa West
Grama Niladhari Division boundary;
South :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn Southwestwards along
the Southern boundary of Kadigamuwa West Grama Niladhari
Division until it meets the meeting point of Eastern and Southern
boundaries of Daluwakgoda Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a line
drawn Southwestwards and Westwards along the Southern boundary
of Daluwakgoda Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the Western
boundary of Daluwakgoda Grama Niladhari Division;
West :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn Northwestwards and
Northeastwards along the Western boundary of Daluwakgoda Grama
Niladhari Division until it meets the meeting point of Southern and
Western boundaries of Nathuwala Grama Niladhari Division; thence,
a line drawn Northwestwards, North wards, Northwestwards, North
east wards, Northwestwards, Southwest wards, Northwestwards,
Northeastwards and Northwestwards along the Western boundary
of Nathuwala Grama Niladhari Division until it meeting the meeting
point of Southern and Western boundaries of Wijayasiripura Grama
Niladhari Division, No. 460 Ethpitiya Grama Niladhari Division,
No. 465 Daluwakgoda Grama Niladhari Division, situated in
Walasmulla Divisional Secretary Division, and No. 466
Kanumuldeniya West Grama Niladhari.
Division, No. 467 Oluara
Grama Niladhari Division, No. 470 Vijayasiripura Grama Niladhari
Division, No. 476 Natuwala Grama Niladhari Dvision, No. 480
Morakandegoda Grama Niladhari Division, No. 481 Ihala
Talahagamwaduwa Grama Niladhari Division, No. 482 Pahala
Talahagamwaduwa Grama Niladhari Division, No. 484 Kadigamuwa
Grama Niladhari Division, situated in Okewela Divisional Secratariat
Division, Hambantota District, Southern Province and bounded by
metes and bounds as specified  in Column II, including the area No.
453 Walasmulla South Grama Niladhari Division, No. 455 Walasmulla
North Grama Niladhari Division, No. 457 Walasmulla Ihala Grama
Niladhari Division, No. 458 Walasmulla Pahala Grama Niladhari
Division, No.  459 Walasmulla West Grama Niladhari Division, in
the Walasmulla Urban Development Area already declared under
Gazette (Extra Ordinary) Notification No. 1346/9 dated 23.06.2004.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIII fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'24
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2016
Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn Northwards and
Northwestwards until it meets the meeting point of Western and
Southern boundaries of Oluara,  Grama Niladhari Division; thence a
line drawn Northwestwards, Northeastwards and Northwards until
it meets the Southern boundary of Kanumuldeniya West Grama
Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn Northwestwards along the
Sothern boundary of Kanumuldeniya West Grama Niladhari Division
until it meets the Southern boundary of other potion of the Oluara;
thence, a line drawn Northwestwards along the Southern boundary
of the said Oluara until it meets the Western boundary of the said
Oluara thence, a line drawn Northwestwards along the Western
boundary of the said Oluara;  until it meets the Southern boundary of
Kanumuldeniya West Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn
Westwards along the Southern boundary of Kanumuldeniya West
Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the Western boundary of
Kanumuldeniya West Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn
Northwestwards, Northwards, Northwestwards and Northwards
along the Western boundary of Kanumuldeniya West Grama Niladhari
Division until it meets the Northern boundary of Kanumuldeniya
West Grama Niladhari Division thence, a line drawn Southeastwards
and Northeastwards along the Northern boundary of Kanumuldeniya
West Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the Western boundary
of Ihala Walasmulla Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn
Northwestwards and Northeastwards along the Western boundary
of Ihala Walasmulla Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the
Western boundary of Ethpitiya Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a
line drawn Northwestwards along the Western boundary of Ethpitiya
Grama Niladhari Division until it meets the starting point.
SCHEDULE II
Declaration of additional Pradeshiya Sabha area as an
Urban Development area along with the already declared
Weeraketiya Urban Development Area
Column I
All the area of lands comprising of No. 390 Agrahera Grama
Niladhari Division situated in Weeraketiya Divisional Secretary
Division, Hambantota District, Southern  Province and bounded by
metes and bounds as specified in Column II including the Weeraketiya
Urban Development Area under the following Grama Niladhari
Divisions,  No. 397 Udukiriwila Grama Niladhari Division No. 398
Yakgasmulla Grama Niladhari Division, No. 389 Mandaduwa Grama
Niladhari Division, No. 388 Weeraketiya West Grama Niladhari
Division, No. 387 Weeraketiya East Grama Niladhari Division, No.
391 Buddhiyagama East Grama Niladhari Division, No. 392
Buddhiyagama West Grama Niladhari Division, No. 439
Keppetiyawa North Grama Niladhari Division, No. 440
Buddhiyagama North Grama Niladhari Division, already declared
under Gazette (Extra Ordinary) Notification No. 1472/5 dated
20.11.2006.
Column II
North :
From the intersection of Western and Southern boundaries of
Mandaduwa Grama Niladhari Division, a line drawn Northeastwards,
Southeast wards, Northeastwards, SoutheastWards and
Northeastwards along the Southern boundary of  Mandaduwa Grama
Niladhari Division until it meets the Western boundary of Wakamulla
Grama Niladhari Division ;
East :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn Southeastwards,
Southwards, Eastwards, Southeastwards and Southwestwards along
the Western boundary of Wakamulla Grama Niladhari Division, until
it meets the Eastern boundary of Weeraketiya East  Grama Niladhari
Division;

<!-- page 4 -->

4A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'24
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2016
South:
From the last mentioned point a line drawn Northwestwards,
Southwest wards, Westwards, Southwest wards, Northwestwards
and Southwestwards along the Eastern boundary of Weeraketiya
East Grama Niladhari Division to a distance of 965.08 m;
West :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn Northwestwards along
the Western boundary of Agrahera Grama Niladhari Division, until it
meets the Northern boundary of Weeraketiya East; thence, a line
drawn Southwestwards and Northwestwards along the Northern
boundary of Weeraketiya East Grama Niladhari Division until it
meets the meeting point of Southern and Eastern boundaries of
Weeraketiya West Grama Niladhari Division; thence, a line drawn
Northeastwards, Northwestwards and Northeastwards along the
Eastern boundary of Weeraketiya West Grama Niladhari Division
until it meets the starting point.
12-479
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA